[[toc]]
=Advantages= 

aff stuff email - neilp1215@gmail.com

==Aff Round Reports== 
1AC Harvard Round 6 - Warming, ASEAN, No War, Solvency v2
1AC Harvard Round 4 - Warming, Spratly Islands - New, Solvency v2
1AC Harvard Round 2 - Warming v. Critical Team

1AC Emory - Russia and Warming

1AC Blake/Dowling - Iran Prolif and Warming 

1AC Michigan - Iran Prolif and Warming

1AC Iowa Caucus Round 5 - Manufacturing, Oil 
1AC Iowa Caucus - Spratly Islands, Black Sea

1AC St. Marks - Spratly Islands, Black Sea


===1AC ASEAN=== 
**China is seeking LNG imports in the status quo**
**Zhu and Sethuraman 12** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Bloomberg reporters (Winnie AND Dinakar, “China’s Easing Grip on Gas Opening Door to North America Exports,” 6/4/12, [[http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-06-04/china-s-easing-grip-on-gas-opening-door-to-north-america-exports]])</span>
Chinese consumers may buy natural gas at more than five times current U.S
AND
and rise fourfold to 50 million tons by 2020, according to Bernstein.
**This hard-lined stance on natural gas claims in the South China Sea damages ASEAN’s ability to handle regional disputes and undermines multilateralism**
[[http://www.cfr.org/experts/asia-southeast-asia-democracy-human-rights/joshua-kurlantzick/b15522|**Kurlantzick**]] **12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Joshua: Fellow for Southeast Asia Areas of expertise include Southeast Asia, China; Asian regionalism; public diplomacy; democratization in the developing world. “South China Sea: From Bad to Worse?” [[http://www.cfr.org/china/south-china-sea-bad-worse/p28739]] July 2012]//BM</span>
Tensions in the South China Sea have risen to their highest level in at least
AND
Asian states since an ASEAN-China free trade area came into effect.

**The plan supplies China – reduces their agression**
**Levi, 2012** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">David M. Rubenstein Senior Fellow for Energy and the Environment Director of the Program on Energy Security and Climate Change Council on Foreign Relations (Michael, “A Strategy for U.S. Natural Gas Exports,” June 2012, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/6/13%20exports%20levi/06_exports_levi.pdf)</span>
The prospect of further exports beyond those initially approved to non-FTA countries will
AND
, but it can take several steps to improve the odds of success.

**Asian multilateralism is crucial to solving disease – southeast Asia is the next ground zero**
**Green and Gill 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Micheal, Professor of IR, and Bates, PhD in Foreign Affairs “Asia's New Multilateralism: Cooperation, Competition, and the Search for Community” pg. 310-311 googlebooks]</span>
Since the Asia-wide outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)
AND
, however, is whether Asian governments are organized for such an eventuality.

**Disease causes extinction**
**Leather**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 10/12/</span>**11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tony, “The Inevitable Pandemic” [[http://healthmad.com/conditions-and-diseases/the-inevitable-pandemic/]], PZ)</span>
You will have pictured this possible scenario many times, living in a country where
AND
think that humanity was genuinely ready, though it seems doubtful at best.

**Disease outweighs war**
<span class="Heading4Char">Zakaria, ‘5.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, [[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]])</span>
A flu pandemic is the most dangerous threat the United States faces today," says
AND
for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat.

===1AC No War=== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Nuclear taboo prevents use**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Perkovich 2009** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(George Perkovich served as a speechwriter and foreign policy adviser to Senator Joe Biden from 1989 to 1990. Perkovich is an adviser to the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations' Task Force on U.S. Nuclear Policy. “EXTENDED DETERRENCE ON THE WAY TO A NUCLEAR-FREE WORLD” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Perkovich_Deterrence.pdf)</span>
The reality today is that the taboo against using nuclear weapons has become so strong
AND
fight for Taiwanese independence if China has not committed aggression against Taiwan first.
**Second doesn’t cause extinction -**
**a). nuclear winter doesn’t happen – creators agree**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**ROBOCK 2010**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Alan, Department of Environmental Sciences, Rutgers University, “Nuclear Winter,” WIREs Climate Change, May/June, Wiley Online Library via University of Michigan Libraries)</span>
While it is important to point out the consequences of nuclear winter, it is
AND
consequences of nuclear winter are extreme enough without these additional effects, however.

**b). there is no scientific basis**
**Nyquist 99**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (J.R., Defense Analyst, Worldnetdaily.com, May 20, 1999)</span>
As I write about Russia's nuclear war preparations, I get some interesting mail in
AND
well, there have been studies which suggest that nuclear war is survivable.
**Psychology proves our arguments – their authors are biased**
**Pinker 2007** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Steven Pinker is the Johnstone Family Professor in the Department of Psychology at Harvard University. “A HISTORY OF VIOLENCE” [[http://www.edge.org/3rd_culture/pinker07/pinker07_index.html]]) BW</span>
The decline of killing and cruelty poses several challenges to our ability to make sense
AND
our behavior can sink, not of how high our standards have risen.
The other major challenge posed by the decline of violence is how to explain it
AND
, Shakespearean dramas, Mel Gibson movies, video games, and hockey.
What has changed, of course, is people's willingness to act on these fantasies
AND
the better angels of our nature, but there are four plausible suggestions.

===1AC Solvency v2=== 
**Federal investment in infrastructure is the only way to generate private investment in the long-run**
**EOA 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- United States Energy Resource Organization in coordination with the American Energy Alliance and the Institute for Energy Research, (Energy for America, “BUSINESSWEEK: CHEAP NATURAL GAS MAKES U.S. SURPRISE ENERGY POWER”, 10/01/12, EOA,[[http://www.energyforamerica.org/2012/10/01/businessweek-cheap-natural-gas-makes-u-s-surprise-energy-power/]], CJD)</span>
What does it mean to be the world’s #1 natural gas producer? Dirty
AND
gas production, but the reality is that we can do even more.

**Lack of exports will make natural gas drilling in the US ineffective**
**Maykuth 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(ANDREW MAYKUTH / THE PHILADELPHIA Insider, “With success, natural gas industry eyes exports,” 9/29/12, [[@http://articles.philly.com/2012-09-24/business/34041775_1_american-public-gas-association-natural-gas-export]]) GANGEEZY</span>
PHILADELPHIA—The natural-gas industry is drowning in its own success.¶ Drilling
AND
As technology develops, there’s no telling how high those numbers will go.”

**Natural gas exports are net beneficial for the United States**
**Levi 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://www.cfr.org/experts/energy-climate-oil-security/michael-a-levi/b11890|Michael A. Levi]] is a senior fellow for energy and the environment at the Council on Foreign Relations, “The Case for Natural Gas Exports,” 8/15/12, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/16/opinion/the-case-for-natural-gas-exports.html]]) GANGEEZY</span>
Critics pose a contrary set of arguments. They fear that demand for gas exports
AND
environment and low-income consumers is the right way to go.

**LNG Terminals would boost natural gas production and exports**
**Helman 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://blogs.forbes.com/christopherhelman/|Christopher Helman]], Forbes Staff, “The U.S. Has A Natural Gas Glut; Why Exporting It As LNG Is A Good Idea,” 6/13/12, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/energysource/2012/06/13/the-u-s-has-a-natural-gas-glut-why-exporting-it-as-lng-is-a-good-idea/]]) GANGEEZY</span>
The emergence of shale gas has caused natural gas prices in North America to drop
AND
and at the right time to capitalize on North American LNG export projects.


Barack Obama is to make a pitch for a second four years in the White
AND
huge impact on our lives and our children's lives for decades to come."

===1AC Spratly Islands - New=== 
**Expanding US LNG exports meets rising Asian energy demands**
**Levi 12**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">- the David M. Rubenstein senior fellow for energy and environment at the Council on Foreign Relations, a nonpartisan foreign-policy think tank and membership organization(Michael, “A strategy for U.S. Natural Gas Exports”, The Hamilton Project, June 2012, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.hamiltonproject.org/files/downloads_and_links/06_exports_levi.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
Asia has not been so fortunate, and the reasons for this are not entirely
AND
their imports, it would partly insulate LNG importers from oil market fluctuations.

**Currently, Asian energy insecurity risks war over the South China Sea**
**Klare 12** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College 5/10/12, “Michael Klare: Oil Wars On The Horizon”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://peakoil.com/publicpolicy/michael-klare-oil-wars-on-the-horizon/]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
Conflict and intrigue over valuable energy supplies have been features of the international landscape for
AND
In other words, we’re now on a planet heading into energy overdrive.
**SCS escalates and collapses the economy**
**Klare**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peace and World Security Studies professor at Hampshire, 1-23-</span>**13**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, “The Next War,” 1-23-13, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2013/01/23/the_next_war_100500.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,) PM</span>
Lurking just behind the Iranian imbroglio, however, is a potential crisis of far
AND
show-of-force operations by both sides in the disputed waters.

**Economic collapse leads to global war.**
**Lind**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">New America Foundation Economic Growth Program Policy Director, 5/11/</span>**2010**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, "Will the great recession lead to World War IV?," http://www.salon.com/news/economics/index.html?story=/opinion/feature/2010/05/11/great_recession_world_war_iv]</span>
If history is any guide, an era of global economic stagnation will help the
AND
Eurasia, Eastasia and Oceania in 1984 is all too easy to imagine.

**Escalation in the short term is likely – perception of the plan is enough**
**Klare**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peace and World Security Studies professor at Hampshire, 1-23-</span>**13**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, “The Next War,” 1-23-13, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2013/01/23/the_next_war_100500.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,) PM</span>
As 2012 ended and the New Year began, the situation only deteriorated. On
AND
the beginning of World War I -- simply spinning out of everyone's control.

**Institutions don’t check**
**Klare**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peace and World Security Studies professor at Hampshire, 1-23-</span>**13**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, “The Next War,” 1-23-13, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2013/01/23/the_next_war_100500.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,) PM</span>
Regional diplomacy, that classic way of settling disputes in a peaceful manner, has
AND
Chinese press, while officials there refused to cede any ground at all.

**Risk of conflict is likely because of miscommunication**
**O’Reilly 12** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Brendan O'Reilly, Asia Times “China walks tightrope over troubled waters” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/NG06Ad01.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, June 2012]//BM//</span>
//Geopolitical shifts are upsetting the waters of the South China Sea, as both China//
//AND//
//29. Although disputes in the South China Sea were not specifically mentioned,//
//Indian External Affairs Secretary Sanjay Singh stressed: "There is common commitment to maintaining//
//AND//
//greater geopolitical weight in the region than 60% of the American fleet.//
//**Specifically, spratly island conflict escalates**//
//**Doble 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John, has an M.A. in International Affairs from American University and a B.A. in Political Science and History from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. “Maritime Disputes a Likely Source of Future Conflict” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.policymic.com/articles/2279/maritime-disputes-a-likely-source-of-future-conflict]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> December]</span>//BM
Yesterday, the U.S. and China were involved in a nuclear exchange
AND
East Asia is equally untenable. Do we have a plan in place?

Barack Obama is to make a pitch for a second four years in the White
AND
huge impact on our lives and our children's lives for decades to come."

===1AC Warming - Critical Version=== 
Contention one is warming -
Warming is real and anthropogenic <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">– carbon dioxide increase, polar ice records, melting glaciers, sea level rise</span>
**Prothero 12** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Donald R. Prothero, Professor of Geology at Occidental College and Lecturer in Geobiology at the California Institute of Technology, 3-1-2012, "How We Know Global Warming is Real and Human Caused," Skeptic, vol 17 no 2, EBSCO]</span>
Converging Lines of Evidence¶ How do we know that global warming is real and
AND
pinnacles, but the rest of these drowned cities would lie deep underwater.

Wamring causes extinction
**Morgan 09 –** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea(Dennis Ray, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect)</span>
As horrifying as the scenario of human extinction by sudden, fast-burning nuclear
AND
Russian roulette while time increasingly stacks the cards against our chances of survival?

Independently, unmitigated carbon emissions cause extinction
**Romm 12**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Joe Romm is a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, “Science: Ocean Acidifying So Fast It Threatens Humanity’s Ability to Feed Itself,” 3/2/2012, http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2012/03/02/436193/science-ocean-acidifying-so-fast-it-threatens-humanity-ability-to-feed-itself/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+climateprogress)</span>
The world’s oceans may be turning acidic faster today from human carbon emissions than they
AND
corals, mollusks and some plankton need for reef and shell-building.

Overconsumption and low prices make the industry unsustainable – exports key to solve
**Weinstein 12** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Bernard, Associate Director, Maguire Energy Institute at the SMU Cox School of Business, “Fear of fracking stymies gas' potential,” 9-24-12, [[http://energy.nationaljournal.com/2012/09/sizing-up-the-role-of-natural.php?comments=expandall#comments|http://energy.nationaljournal.com/2012/09/sizing-up-the-role-of-natural.php?comments=expandall#comments]])</span>
Twenty years ago, the Barnett shale in north Texas was unknown. Today it’s
AND
benefits that can be realized by fully developing our domestic natural gas resources.

Collapse of US natural gas makes warming inevitable
**Bryce 12** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, “Inside the strange world of 'green energy' politics and how it's ruining the US,” 7-17-12, http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2012/07/17/inside-strange-world-green-energy-politics-and-how-it-ruining-us/)</span>
The United States is leading the world in reducing its emissions of carbon dioxide.
AND
fuels is equally beneficial in percentage terms no matter how fast the transition.”

Renewables can’t fill in – that makes warming from emissions inevitable
**Riley 12** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Ala, professor of energy law at The City Law School at City University London, “Shale Gas to the Climate Rescue,” 8-13-12, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/14/opinion/shale-gas-to-the-climate-rescue.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print)</span>
The battle against runaway climate change is being lost. The green movement and the
AND
in carbon emissions that we can achieve by replacing coal with shale gas.

Plan facilitates the transition towards green energy – that solves warming
**Ju 12** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Anne Ju (senior science writer for the Cornell Chronicle) July 17, 2012 “Study Proves Natural Gas Can Bridge the Gap to a Clean Energy Economy” [[http://oilprice.com/Energy/Natural-Gas/Study-Proves-Natural-Gas-Can-Bridge-the-Gap-to-a-Clean-Energy-Economy.html]])</span>
Natural gas is a good transition step on the road to greener energy sources like
AND
fuels is equally beneficial in percentage terms no matter how fast the transition.”


Gas Prices are artificially low – that causes major production cutbacks and shifts back to coal – plan reverses that
**Samuelson,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Washington Post (Op-Ed), 12-23-</span>**12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, “Don’t kill the shale-gas boom,” 12-23-12, http:~/~/www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/robert-samuelson-dont-kill-the-shale-gas-boom/2012/12/23/815ceb4c-4b9c-11e2-b709-667035ff9029_[[http://opencaselist.paperlessdebate.com/xwiki/bin/create/%2F%2Fwww.washingtonpost.com%2Fopinions%2Frobert-samuelson-dont-kill-the-shale-gas-boom%2F2012%2F12%2F23%2F815ceb4c-4b9c-11e2-b709-667035ff9029_story/html?parent=Mary+Washington.McCleary%2DMcElhinny+Aff|html]]) PM</span>
Let’s not smother the shale-gas boom. It is the crown jewel of
AND
levels. Companies won’t drill unless they can profitably sell what they find.
**Coal plants destroy low income neighborhoods and minority communities**
**NAACP, No Date**. National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, //NAACP commends Agreement to Close Two Chicago Coal Plants,// In between 2009- 2012. [[http://www.naacp.org/news/entry/naacp-commends-agreement-to-close-two-chicago-coal-plants|__http://www.naacp.org/news/entry/naacp-commends-agreement-to-close-two-chicago-coal-plants__]]

(Chicago, IL) – NAACP leaders commended the agreement between Midwest Generation,
AND
conducting voter mobilization and monitoring equal opportunity in the public and private sectors.

**These minority communities suffer the worst because coal plants dump their waste on the immediate surrounding areas**
**BLF, SOC, GCPA, and Clear Air, 2002.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Black Leadership forum- Black leaders to grapple with issues of the deepest significance to African Americans, particularly civil rights and major public policy issues, BLF sponsored two international forums in Durban, South Africa, Today focuses on environmental justice. The Southern Organizing Committee for Economic and Social Justice- SOC was in the vanguard promoting community empowerment, capacity building and grassroots organizing, particularly in the South. Under the leadership of Connie Tucker who has served as the Executive Council of the National Environmental Justice Advisory Council, its Waste and Facility Siting Sub-committee, The Georgia Coalition for The Peoples’ Agenda- an advocacy organization that includes all of the major Civil Rights/Human Rights/Peace & Justice organizations around the state of Georgia. Dr. Joseph E. Lowery is the convener of this coalition. Dr. Joseph E. Lowery isminister in the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Methodist_Church|United Methodist Church]] and leader in the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States|American]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Civil_Rights_Movement_(1955-1968)|civil rights]] movement and effectively became Martin Luther King’s Immediate successor , Clear the Air- A joint project of three tasks forces: Clean Air Task Force, National Environmental Trust and U.S. PIRG Education Fund. The Clean Air Task Force is a non-profit organization dedicated to restoring clean air and healthy environments through scientific research, public education and legal advocacy. The National Environmental Trust is a non-profit, non-partisan organization dedicated to applying modern communications and public education techniques to environmental education and advocacy. The U.S. PIRG Education Fund is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that conducts independent research, and educates and organizes the public about a wide variety of environmental, consumer and government reform problems. //Air of injustice//. </span>[[http://www.catf.us/resources/publications/files/Air_of_Injustice.pdf|__http://www.catf.us/resources/publications/files/Air_of_Injustice.pdf__]]


People living near power plants can also be exposed to contaminants in power plant wastes
AND
can directly contaminate the soil and can contaminate nearby areas with windblown dust.

Contention two is the frame -

**This debate space is key- repeated messages in the public sphere are necessary – the status quo de-emphasizes warming- incorrect information is running rampant**
**Romm ‘12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joe Romm is a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, which New York Times columnist Tom Friedman called "the indispensable blog" and Time magazine named one of the 25 “Best Blogs of 2010.″ In 2009, Rolling Stone put Romm #88 on its list of 100 “people who are reinventing America.” Time named him a “Hero of the Environment″ and “The Web’s most influential climate-change blogger.” Romm was acting assistant secretary of energy for energy efficiency and renewable energy in 1997, where he oversaw $1 billion in R&D, demonstration, and deployment of low-carbon technology. He is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and holds a Ph.D. in physics from MIT., 2/26/2012, “Apocalypse Not: The Oscars, The Media And The Myth of ‘Constant Repetition of Doomsday Messages’ on Climate”, [[http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2012/02/26/432546/apocalypse-not-oscars-media-myth-of-repetition-of-doomsday-messages-on-climate/#more-432546|http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2012/02/26/432546/apocalypse-not-oscars-media-myth-of-repetition-of-doomsday-messages-on-climate/#more-432546]])</span>
The two greatest myths about global warming communications are 1) constant repetition of doomsday
AND
by most of the rest of the media, intelligentsia and popular culture.



**Students interrogating environmental issues is critical to developing sustainable solutions**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cotgrave and Alkhaddar 6– Alison Cotgrave has a PhD in Sustainability Literacy, she is currently the Deputy Director of the School of the Built Environment and a researcher in construction education, she is also a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy, Rafid Alkhaddar has a PhD in Civil Engineering and currently teaches at the School of the Built Environment John Moores University in Liverpool as a Professor of Water and Environmental Engineering (March 2006, “Greening the Curricula within Construction Programmes,” Journal for Education in the Built Environment, Vol.1, Issue 1, March 2006 pp. 3-29, http://131.251.248.49/jebe/pdf/AlisonCotgrave1(1).pdf)</span>
__Environmental education__
Many writers have determined that the main aim of environmental education is to change attitudes
AND
into more sustainable structures, we might as well forget the educational part.
Global warming movements are coming now thanks to a decline in identity politics --- their strategy crushes those movements
George <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Monbiot</span>, English Writer and Environmental and Political Activist, 9-4-<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>, “Identity Politics in Climate Change Hell,” http://www.celsias.com/article/identity-politics-climate-change-hell/
If you want a glimpse of how the movement against climate change could crumble faster
AND
this urgent task into the identity politics that have wrecked so many movements.
Allowing warming to continue perpetuates racist inequalities
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hoerner 8</span>**—**<span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">Former director of Research at the Center for a Sustainable Economy, Director of Tax Policy at the Center for Global Change at the University of Maryland College Park, and editor of Natural Resources Tax Review. He has done research on environmental economics and policy on behalf of the governments of Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and the United States. Andrew received his B.A. in Economics from Cornell University and a J.D. from Case Western Reserve School of Law—AND—Nia Robins—former inaugural Climate Justice Corps Fellow in 2003, director of Environmental Justice and Climate Change Initiative (J. Andrew, “A Climate of Change African Americans, Global Warming, and a Just Climate Policy for the U.S.” July 2008, http://www.ejcc.org/climateofchange.pdf)</span>
Everywhere we turn, the issues and impacts of climate change confront us. One
AND
points and raising the average African American income by 3 to 4 percent.

**Climate change is coming now and is bearing a hugely disproportionate impact on those already at the greatest socioeconomic disadvantage, causing widespread physical displacement and death**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Byravan and Rajan ’10 </span>Sujatha Byravan and Sudhir Chella Rajan, “The Ethical Implications of Sea-Level Rise Due to Climate Change,” Ethics & International Affairs 24, No. 3, 9/20/2010, only accessible on some exclusive database
As scientific evidence for the adverse effects of human-induced climate change grows stronger
AND
is not always equivalent to an argument for making reparations for past injury.




Barack Obama is to make a pitch for a second four years in the White
AND
huge impact on our lives and our children's lives for decades to come."

===1AC Russia Advantage - Emory Round 2=== 

Russia is expanding now
Cohen and Allison 11 (Ariel Cohen, Ph.D., is Senior Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Policy in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation.Stephen J. Blank, Ph.D., is Research Professor of National Security Affairs at the U.S. Army War College, “Reset Regret: Russian Global Strategy Undermines American Interests,” August 3, 2011, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/reset-regret-russian-global-strategy-undermines-us-interests) GANGEEZY
According to the Obama Administration, the U.S. is not competing with Russia for global influence. Unfortunately, Moscow has not received this memo. Instead, Russia attempts to extend its influence to constrain U.S. policy. Russian leaders like Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov habitually invoke a “polycentric” or multipolar model of the world, with Russia working with her partners toward a future where U.S. power is so diminished that it cannot act without Moscow’s permission.¶ Moscow has continuously promoted in word and deed the idea that there is or should be a multipolar world order that constrains U.S. foreign policies. Moscow’s concept of multipolarity entails an uncontested sphere of Russian influence in the CIS and with key actors in critically important regions: Europe, East Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America. ¶ Anti-American Partnerships¶ Moscow has formed partnerships with China, Iran, and Venezuela to prevent the U.S. from consolidating a regional order under its auspices. Like the U.S.S.R, its predecessor and inspiration, today’s Russia pursues key allies in the Middle East and Latin America, such as Syria, Iran, and Venezuela, with whom it can jointly frustrate American and Western efforts to consolidate a peaceful regional order. Such partners may resist U.S. policies and actively counter them to distract the U.S., force the U.S. to accommodate Russian interests, or compel an American retreat.¶ In East Asia, Moscow joins China to advocate “a new Asian security order” based on “mutual trust, mutual benefit, equality, and cooperation.”[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/reset-regret-russian-global-strategy-undermines-us-interests#_ftn1|[1]]] According to the two great powers, all states would respect each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, not criticize their domestic politics, and support each other on outstanding territorial issues.¶ To translate: Beijing, Moscow, and their allies will respect Russia’s claims to the Kurile Islands (the Northern Territories) and Georgian territories of Abkhazia/South Ossetia, as well as China’s claims to Xinjiang, Taiwan, and Tibet; China’s territorial claims against Japan regarding the Senkaku Islands; and possibly even China’s claims on the Spratly Islands.¶ Both countries also support non-alliance principles, equal and transparent security frameworks, and equal and indivisible security. Russia also seeks India’s assent to this formulation and covertly solicits Japan’s endorsement—even as it humiliates Japan over the Kurile Islands, a sure sign of Moscow’s endemic desire to play both sides against the middle and its fundamentally anti-liberal and anti-American orientation. The proposal’s vagueness benefits only Russia and China and squarely denounces the U.S. alliance system in Asia. Ultimately, Russia’s concept of Asian, if not global, multipolarity is self-serving.¶ Moreover, the joint proposal resembles Russia’s equally self-serving, anti-American, and Anti-NATO proposal for a European Security treaty of 2009–2010. Moscow even applies the same rhetoric to this Asian security proposal that is present in its European Security Treaty draft. At the International Institute for Strategic Studies Shangri-La Dialogue conference in Singapore in 2011, Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov said:¶ Russian–Chinese proposals are aimed at helping the countries of the region to realize that security is indivisible and at abandoning attempts to strengthen one’s security at the expense of others. New regional security architecture should be based on the universal principles of international law, non‑aligned approaches, confidence and openness, with due regard to the diversity of the APR and an emerging polycentric balance of forces.[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/reset-regret-russian-global-strategy-undermines-us-interests#_ftn2|[2]]]¶ The Unsavory Clients: Tehran, Damascus, Caracas ¶ In addition to diplomatic support for China, Russia has sold Iran, Syria, and Venezuela large amounts of weapons. Despite the laudable cancellation of the S-300 air defense missiles sale to Iran, Moscow still preserves the option of selling other weapons to Tehran. It signed major energy deals with Tehran in 2010 and this summer has advocated easing sanctions on Iran provided it cooperates with the International Atomic Energy Agency—an institution that has long since demonstrated how easily Iran can deceive it concerning its nuclear program.¶ Moscow clearly wants to retain ties to Iran, which it regards as the rising great power in the Gulf and Middle East and with whom it wants to collaborate against any Western effort to consolidate a peaceful order. Moscow has sold weapons such as anti-tank missiles to Iran and Syria, and these weapons continue to migrate to Hamas and Hezbollah.¶ Russia defends Bashar al-Assad’s murderous regime despite its bloody repression of its own citizens. This is, among other reasons, because Russia has signed an agreement with Syria to return Soviet naval bases in Latakiye and Tartus to Russian control. Therefore, Russia obstructs U.N. resolutions of censure against Syria. French diplomats who negotiated with Russia believe that Moscow most fears the loss of another ally in the Middle East.¶ Moscow has also sold billions in weapons to Hugo Chávez’s regime in Venezuela, including fighter jets, tanks, and whole Kalashnikov assault rifle factories. Chávez used his increasing military power to aid the terrorist group FARC directly and run narcotics from West Africa and Latin America into Central and North America.¶ The notorious arms dealer Viktor Bout, who now awaits trial in a New York federal court, was caught offering to sell weapons to the FARC. Given Bout’s longstanding connections to senior officials of the Russian government, Moscow moved heaven and earth to prevent his extradition from Thailand, where he was arrested, to the U.S. It is quite likely that Bout’s weapons would have been earmarked for the FARC and/or similar narco-terrorists throughout Latin America.¶ Likewise, Russia has been China’s largest source of foreign weapons since 1990, even though those sales have declined due to Russian fears about Chinese intentions and anger over Chinese piracy and subsequent sale of weapons in competition with Russia in third-party markets. Nevertheless, arms sales and advanced technology transfers from Russia to China still occur.
Russian expansionism triggers multiple scenarios for extinction
Blank 9 --- Stephen J. Blank, strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago, March 2009. “RUSSIA AND ARMS CONTROL: ARE THERE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?”
Proliferators or nuclear states like China and Russia can then deter regional or intercontinental attacks either by denial or by threat of retaliation.168 Given a multipolar world structure with little ideological rivalry among major powers, it is unlikely that they will go to war with each other. Rather, like Russia, they will strive for exclusive hegemony in their own “sphere of influence” and use nuclear instruments towards that end. However, wars may well break out between major powers and weaker “peripheral” states or between peripheral and semiperipheral states given their lack of domestic legitimacy, the absence of the means of crisis prevention, the visible absence of crisis management mechanisms, and their strategic calculation that asymmetric wars might give them the victory or respite they need.169 Simultaneously, The states of periphery and semiperiphery have far more opportunities for political maneuvering. Since war remains a political option, these states may find it convenient to exercise their military power as a means for achieving political objectives. Thus international crises may increase in number. This has two important implications for the use of WMD. First, they may be used deliberately to offer a decisive victory (or in Russia’s case, to achieve “intra-war escalation control”—author170) to the striker, or for defensive purposes when imbalances 67 in military capabilities are significant; and second, crises increase the possibilities of inadvertent or accidental wars involving WMD.171 Obviously nuclear proliferators or states that are expanding their nuclear arsenals like Russia can exercise a great influence upon world politics if they chose to defy the prevailing consensus and use their weapons not as defensive weapons, as has been commonly thought, but as offensive weapons to threaten other states and deter nuclear powers. Their decision to go either for cooperative security and strengthened international military-political norms of action, or for individual national “egotism” will critically affect world politics. For, as Roberts observes, But if they drift away from those efforts [to bring about more cooperative security], the consequences could be profound. At the very least, the effective functioning of inherited mechanisms of world order, such as the special responsibility of the “great powers” in the management of the interstate system, especially problems of armed aggression, under the aegis of collective security, could be significantly impaired. Armed with the ability to defeat an intervention, or impose substantial costs in blood or money on an intervening force or the populaces of the nations marshaling that force, the newly empowered tier could bring an end to collective security operations, undermine the credibility of alliance commitments by the great powers, [undermine guarantees of extended deterrence by them to threatened nations and states] extend alliances of their own, and perhaps make wars of aggression on their neighbors or their own people.

The election of Putin guarantees Russian political instability
Peleschuk 9/5/12 (Dan Peleschuk, “Putin stokes Russian culture wars,” September 5, 2012, [[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/regions/europe/russia/120904/putin-russia-culture-wars-Pussy-Riot-Kremlin]]) GANGEEZY
However, Putin’s controversial policies appear to reflect more about his divisive strategy to maintain his authority.¶ Marginalizing a growing cadre of opposition-minded Russians he has cast as a danger has enabled him to stoke Russia’s version of a culture war in order to consolidate his increasingly valuable support among older, conservative Russians who constitute his base.¶ But analysts say splitting the population along ideological lines threatens to isolate the president in an increasingly polarized society he may no longer be able to manipulate.¶ Although pressure against opponents is hardly new for Putin, Nikolai Petrov of the Carnegie Moscow Center believes his latest tactics show him to be no longer positioning himself as president of all Russians, but a “majority versus the minority” for the first time since his rise to power a dozen years ago.¶ “He considers this minority — those who live in big cities, in Moscow especially, and who are not welcoming him now — as his opponents, or even his enemies,” he said.¶ The scandal over the Pussy Riot trial, which shows few signs of abating weeks after it ended, has become a focus for debates over conservatism, justice and the Russian Orthodox Church.¶ Religious and nationalist groups accused the women of being Satanists seeking to destroy Russia. Increasingly vocal, some have set about organizing vigilante groups to protect a culture they say is under threat.¶ Previously seen as stalwart Putin supporters, however, they are also increasingly critical of him. Many blame him for not being patriotic enough.¶ Pussy Riot supporters have contributed to the radicalization, most visibly a group called People’s Will — which evokes a violent 19th-century revolutionary group of the same name — that has cut down Orthodox wooden crosses.¶ Alexander Rahr, an independent Russia analyst, says the various actions reflect a society being “torn apart” between liberal-minded Russians who ascribe little importance to religion and conservatives who believe Orthodox Christianity forms a cornerstone of Russian identity.¶ Pitting various segments of the population against each other is no Russian invention, however. Prime among other examples, the American political landscape has also become highly polarized in recent years.¶ The Republican Party recently drafted its most conservative platform in memory ahead of November’s presidential election to appeal to voters over such social issues as abortion and gay marriage, something critics say helps define battle lines that mobilize the party’s base by portraying liberals as seeking to destabilize the American order.¶ However, there are important differences with Russia. “In the American political system, it’s about ‘blue’ and ‘red,’ which are rough counterweights to each other,” says Matthew Rojansky of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington. “They’re both mainstream, that’s the key.”¶ In Russia, he adds, the main division is between “the power and the fringe.”¶ Even if motives for politicians in both countries may be similar, he concluded, the stakes in the culture war being waged in Russia are far higher. “The way people are being impacted by this, qualitatively, is very different.”¶ Not only are opposition leaders harassed and arrested, the opposing visions for the country present a stark a choice between authoritarian rule and democratization.¶ Observers believe Putin has been expert in employing similar tactics inside the corridors of power to establish he’s still very much in charge. A recent report by an influential group of Russian analysts characterizes his administration as a Soviet-style system in which various political groups vie for his influence.
That cause a nuclear strike on the US
PRY 1999 (Peter Vincent, Former US Intelligence Operative, War Scare: U.S.-Russia on the Nuclear Brink, netlibrary)
Russian internal troubles—such as a leadership crisis, coup, or civil war—could aggravate Russia’s fears of foreign aggression and lead to a miscalculation of U.S. intentions and to nuclear overreaction. While this may sound like a complicated and improbable chain of events, Russia’s story in the 1990s is one long series of domestic crises that have all too often been the source of nuclear close calls. The war scares of August 1991 and October 1993 arose out of coup attempts. The civil war in Chechnya caused a leadership crisis in Moscow, which contributed to the nuclear false alarm during Norway’s launch of a meteorological rocket in January 1995. Nuclear war arising from Russian domestic crises is a threat the West did not face, or at least faced to a much lesser extent, during the Cold War. The Russian military’s continued fixation on surprise-attack scenarios into the 1990s, combined with Russia’s deepening internal problems, has created a situation in which the United States might find itself the victim of a preemptive strike for no other reason than a war scare born of Russian domestic troubles. At least in nuclear confrontations of the 1950s–1970s—during the Berlin crisis, Cuban missile crisis, and 1973 Middle East war—both sides knew they were on the nuclear brink. There was opportunity to avoid conflict through negotiation or deescalation. The nuclear war scares of the 1980s and 1990s have been one-sided Russian affairs, with the West ignorant that it was in grave peril.
u.s.-russia war is the only existential threat
Bostrom ‘02 [Nick, Dir. Future of Humanity Institute and Prof. Philosophy – Oxford U., Journal of Evolution and Technology, “Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”, March, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]]
The first manmade existential risk was the inaugural detonation of an atomic bomb. At the time, there was some concern that the explosion might start a runaway chain-reaction by “igniting” the atmosphere. Although we now know that such an outcome was physically impossible, it qualifies as an existential risk that was present at the time. For there to be a risk, given the knowledge and understanding available, it suffices that there is some subjective probability of an adverse outcome, even if it later turns out that objectively there was no chance of something bad happening. If we don’t know whether something is objectively risky or not, then it is risky in the subjective sense. The subjective sense is of course what we must base our decisions on.[2] At any given time we must use our best current subjective estimate of what the objective risk factors are.[3] A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization.[4] Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that a smaller nuclear exchange, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently. Such a war might however be a local terminal risk for the cities most likely to be targeted. Unfortunately, we shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.
Russia’s energy sector is key to it’s expansion
SCHWARZ, 4 (Peter, Editorial Board of World Socialist Web Site, “The Caucasus Powder Keg: Russia Threatens Military Interventions,” 9/28, http://www.wsws.org/articles/2004/sep2004/russ-s28.shtml)
With the coming to power of Putin, whom Yeltsin had personally selected as his successor and who was supported by the leading oligarchs, a limited course correction took place. The new elite realised that to secure their wealth and power, they required a strong state and the ability to play a role internationally amongst the great powers. Putin, who could look back over a long career in the Soviet secret service, the KGB, filled key political and administrative offices with secret service veterans. The KGB, which served the Stalinist regime as a kind praetorian guard, was suited to this task because it had been imbued with Great Russian chauvinism by Stalin in the 1930s and 1940s. For the KGB, the “defence of the Soviet Union” did not mean defending the socialist achievements of the October Revolution, but the defence of the internal and external power of the state. Putin consolidated the power of the new capitalist elite by strengthening the central state in relation to the regions, extending the police and secret service apparatus, limiting freedom of opinion and the press, and finally, this summer, abolishing the numerous, state-financed social benefits that still remained from Soviet times. Yeltsin had not dared to take such a step, because he feared an uncontrollable reaction from the general population. With regard to foreign policy, Putin aimed to restore Russia’s status as a great power. To this end, he acted with extreme brutality against separatist tendencies in the Caucasus. At the end of 1999, even prior to taking over the office of president, he unleashed the second Chechen war, which is still raging today. Chechnya was largely destroyed, as was any prospect of a peaceful solution. At the same time, the war served to stifle increasing discontent over the social crisis in Russia and justify the further strengthening of the state apparatus. With some success, Putin was able to present the Chechen conflict as a consequence of foreign interference and appeal to nationalist sentiments in Russia. This was facilitated by the support he received from the Communist Party. For its part, the so-called “democratic” opposition criticized the Chechen war, but endorsed the course of the “free-market” reforms, cooperated closely with Western governments, and relied financially on the oligarchs. The weakness of the Russian “democrats” can only in part be attributed to the fact that the Kremlin exercises a monopoly over the media. The real reason lies in the fact that their economic and social policies are diametrically opposed to the social interests of the population. Putin also strove to bind the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS)—the loose confederation of states that replaced the old Soviet structure—more closely to Russia, employing a mixture of economic, military and diplomatic pressure, especially in the cases of White Russia and the Ukraine. In the Caucasus, Moscow supports Armenia against Azerbaijan, which is falling increasingly under Western influence. It maintains its own troops in the rebellious areas of Georgia. In Central Asia, Moscow aims at a strategic alliance with the two most important energy producers, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan. The energy sector plays a key role in Putin’s great power plans. It constitutes 40 percent of national tax receipts, 55 percent of export profits, and 20 percent of the Russian economy. In the Ukraine, in Georgia and in Kazakhstan, Russian firms close to the Kremlin are buying up gas and oil companies. The conflict between the Kremlin and a section of the oligarchs is about who will exercise control over this sector. The state, according to Russia expert Alexander Rahr, will “not permit that this sector, on which Russia depends to reemerge as a great power, is controlled by the particularist interests of profit-seeking oligarchs, or that it falls under the control of foreign transnational enterprises.” He says that, although Putin does not want to renationalise the oil companies that were denationalised in the 1990s, they will have “to fit in with the Kremlin’s rules of play, otherwise they will share the same fate that befell ‘Yukos,’ which has been made an example of.” (CIS Barometer, September 2004) On these two key questions—control of the immense energy reserves of Russia and Central Asia, and supremacy over the states of Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia — interests collide that cannot be reconciled peacefully in the long term. They are not only cause for constant tensions between Russia on the one hand and the US and Europe on the other; the strategic aims of America, the European powers and, in the long term, China, clash irreconcilably here as well. That makes Central Asia and the Caucasus a powder keg of future confrontations.

Russian Influence in the Middle East causes miscalc and great power wars
Laqueur 08 [Walter, co-founder and editor of the Journal of Contemporary History in London and the Washington Quarterly, “Russia and the Middle East”, Aug 17, [[http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/mesh/2008/08/russia_and_the_middle_east/]]]
Ideally, the restoration of the Russian sphere of domination (or at least influence) should proceed gradually, even slowly. It was Stalin’s mistake after World War Two that he proceeded hastily, which generated resistance, including the emergence of NATO. But Russia is under time pressure for at least three reasons. First, there is the emotional factor. The temptation to show that Russia has returned to a position of strength is very great. Which Russian leader does not want to enter history as another Peter the Great—not to mention some more recent leaders? Second, Russia’s strength rests almost entirely on its position as the world’s leading oil and gas supplier. But this will not last forever. Nor will it be possible to prevent technological progress forever—alternative sources of energy will be found. Above all, there is Russia’s demographic weakness. Its population is constantly shrinking (and becoming de-Russified). The duration of military service had to be halved because there are not enough recruits. Every fourth recruit is at present of Muslim background; in a few years it will be every third. The density of population in Asian Russia is 2.5 per square kilometer—and declining. There is no possible way to stop or reverse this process, and depopulation means inevitably the loss of wide territories—not to the Americans. In these circumstances there is a strong urge not to wait but to act now. What will be the impact of these trends on the Middle East? Ideally, it would be wise to wait with any major action in the area until Russian domination in its closer neighborhood is established. But if opportunities for a Russian return to the Middle East arise, they should be used. There are no illusions about finding allies in the region. As one of the last Tsars (Alexander III) said (and as Putin repeated after him), Russia has only two reliable allies: its army and artillery. Among the police and army ideologues there has been of late the idea to give up Panslav dreams, since the Slav brothers can be trusted even less than the rest, and to consider instead a strategic alliance with Turkic peoples. But these are largely fantasies. The main aim will be to weaken America’s position in the Middle East. In this respect, there are differences of opinion in the Kremlin. Some ex-generals have come on record to the effect that a war with America is inevitable in a perspective of 10-15 years. The influence of these radical military men should not be overrated. But it is certainly true that the belief that America is Russia’s worst and most dangerous enemy is quite common (see for instance the recent Russkaia Doktrina). The downfall of the Soviet empire is thought to be mainly if not entirely America’s fault; Washington, it is believed, is trying to hurt Russia all the time in every possible way. This paranoiac attitude is deeply rooted (in contrast to China) and it will be an uphill struggle in the years to come to persuade the Russian leadership that this is not the case. Moscow has threatened to supply greater help to Iran and Syria, which would certainly annoy America and perhaps hurt it. But Russia does not want to do this at the price of creating political and military problems for itself in the years to come. Russian distrust does not stop at its southern borders. The attack on South Ossetia provided Russia with an unique opportunity; it was motivated by a militant Georgian nationalism which failed to understand that small and weak countries, unlike big and powerful ones, are not in a position to keep separatist regions indefinitely under their control. Such opportunities will not frequently return, and other opportunities will have to be created by the Kremlin—probably by exploiting existing conflicts such as those in the Middle East. This could open the door to serious miscalculations.

Middle East war causes World War 3
Stirling 11 (The Earl of Stirling 11, hereditary Governor & Lord Lieutenant of Canada, Lord High Admiral of Nova Scotia, & B.Sc. in Pol. Sc. & History; M.A. in European Studies, “General Middle East War Nears - Syrian events more dangerous than even nuclear nightmare in Japan”, http://europebusines.blogspot.com/2011/03/general-middle-east-war-nears-syrian.html)
Any Third Lebanon War/General Middle East War is apt to involve WMD on both side quickly as both sides know the stakes and that the Israelis are determined to end, once and for all, any Iranian opposition to a 'Greater Israel' domination of the entire Middle East. It will be a case of 'use your WMD or lose them' to enemy strikes. Any massive WMD usage against Israel will result in the usage of Israeli thermonuclear warheads against Arab and Persian populations centers in large parts of the Middle East, with the resulting spread of radioactive fallout over large parts of the Northern Hemisphere. However, the first use of nukes is apt to be lower yield warheads directed against Iranian underground facilities including both nuclear sites and governmental command and control and leadership bunkers, with some limited strikes also likely early-on in Syrian territory.¶ The Iranians are well prepared to launch a global Advanced Biological Warfare terrorism based strike against not only Israel and American and allied forces in the Middle East but also against the American, Canadian, British, French, German, Italian, etc., homelands. This will utilize DNA recombination based genetically engineered 'super killer viruses' that are designed to spread themselves throughout the world using humans as vectors. There are very few defenses against such warfare, other than total quarantine of the population until all of the different man-made viruses (and there could be dozens or even over a hundred different viruses released at the same time) have 'burned themselves out'. This could kill a third of the world's total population.¶ Such a result from an Israeli triggered war would almost certainly cause a Russian-Chinese response that would eventually finish off what is left of Israel and begin a truly global war/WWIII with multiple war theaters around the world. It is highly unlikely that a Third World War, fought with 21st Century weaponry will be anything but the Biblical Armageddon.
Plan solves Russian expansionism – countries work with the United States instead of Russia
Cohen and Graham, Senior Research Fellow at The Heritage Foundation, Research Assistant at the Heritage Foundation, 2009
[Ariel Cohen, Senior Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security at the Katherine and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies at The Heritage Foundation, Owen Graham, Research Assistant at the Davis Institute, “Can Europe Be Taken Hostage by Russia’s Natural Gas Supply?,” The Cutting Edge, [[http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=1071&pageid=&pagename]]=,
It is clear that Russia has not ceased its efforts to use energy as a weapon, while Europe and particularly Ukraine have made themselves vulnerable by failing to diversify their energy baskets to expand the role of nuclear energy and coal, to modernize their energy-intensive industrial base to make it more efficient, and above all, to develop a coherent policy toward their Russian supplier. Europe has clearly made itself vulnerable by relying too much on Russian energy, while the national governments and the European Union failed to develop, coordinate, and implement effective policy which could have prevented the current predicament.¶ Energy Transit and European Dependence Many Europeans look to Russia because Europe's own domestic gas production is in decline, while demand is likely to rise for another decade. Demand is projected to increase dramatically. In 2007, European demand for gas was 500 billion cubic meters (bcm) a year and is expected to rise to 800 bcm within the next decade, according to most forecasts.¶ With the largest proven natural gas reserves on the planet and a massive pipeline network built mostly in the Soviet era, Russia has a natural leverage in supplying energy to Europe. Gazprom currently provides EU members with one-quarter of its gas--about 160 bcm per year; Gazprom officials hope that this number will climb to 250 bcm per year by 2020.¶ Ukraine is a key energy transit state for producers in Russia and Central Asia to European consumers. Around 80 percent of Europe's gas imports from Russia travel through Ukrainian pipelines: approximately 120 bcm per year. In turn, Gazprom receives around two-thirds of its revenue from gas that passes through these pipelines, representing 20 percent of European demand.¶ Germany is dependent on Russia for close to 40 percent of its gas and this number is expected to rise to 60 percent by 2020. Some European countries areentirely dependent on Russian gas, as high as 80 to 100 percent, such as Slovakia, Finland, Bulgaria, Greece, Serbia, Montenegro, and Macedonia. Many of the Baltic States and the Commonwealth of Independent States are also 80 to 100 percent dependent on Russian gas, such as Belarus, Lithuania, Armenia, and Georgia.¶ The Kremlin uses this dependence as a foreign policy tool to apply pressure against states that would adopt policies that go against Russia's national interests. Moscow has cut off supplies to numerous countries over the last seven years with Ukraine as the primary target.¶ Undermining Ukraine Russia is escalating the gas crisis in order to prove to the Ukrainian people that President Victor Yushchenko and Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko are discredited leaders, who caused energy shortages in the middle of a harsh winter. This is the price Ukrainians must pay, some in the Russian leadership imply, for pursuing a pro-Western path toward NATO membership. Russia demands that Ukraine abandon its road to NATO and the EU, and allow Moscow to base its Black Sea Fleet in the Crimea after the current agreement expires in 2017. If Ukraine runs out of gas reserves, this is a lesson many Ukrainians will not forget quickly.¶ Gazprom has pressured Ukraine to pay higher prices since the election of the pro-Western Victor Yushchenko. Some experts view the current price war as outright economic warfare against Ukrainian independence. Shutting off the gas to Ukraine denies the country valuable transit revenue and undermines the government's reputation as an energy transit state.¶ While Gazprom has raised the price of gas to most of the customers in the former Soviet Union in recent years, allies such as Armenia continue to pay lower rates, while "problem" states like Georgia pay full price.¶ The New Pipeline Network to Bypass Ukraine? The Russian leadership wants Ukraine to lose its leverage over Gazprom as a transit country. Moscow is hoping to make Ukraine appear an unreliable partner to the Europeans, which it believes will justify building expensive Russian-proposed gas pipe lines to Europe bypassing Ukraine. Some European governments, notably those of Germany and Italy, would now support these "direct" pipelines which bypass Ukraine, such as Nord Stream, chaired by the former German Chancellor Gerhardt Schroeder, and the South Stream along the Black Sea bottom. Yet, concerns over excess dependence on Russian energy, the current economic crisis, and high costs of these projects raise questions about the timetables and affordability of the new pipelines from Russia.¶ The astronomic price tag for both projects, over $30 billion, makes them seem less feasible today than even a year ago. Furthermore, the pipelines proposed by the Russians would only increase Europe's dependence on Russia. The more Germany and Italy's dependence on Russian gas increases, the less they would be inclined to stand up to Russia over any foreign policy excesses.¶ Ukraine's Inefficient Energy Sector Ukraine is not without blemish, as its leaders have made it vulnerable to Russian tactics and pressures. Ukraine's manufacturing sector is notoriously inefficient, producing a mere 10 percent of Germany's output, while consuming as much energy as Germany does. Ukraine's energy sector suffers from lack of transparency and from corruption, regardless of who is in power in Kiev.¶ Swiss-registered RosUkrEnergo, for example, was in charge of marketing gas from Russia and Turkmenistan until October 2008. This company is a shady entity with allegedly illicit ties, and is an intermediary that benefits businessmen and government officials who prefer anonymity. RosUkrEnergo, like a number of other middleman companies Russia has set up in Europe, is a gas-trading company that does not own any gas fields or pipelines. It is also not the first middleman company in the Russian-Ukrainian gas trade.¶ RosUkrEnergo was created in 2004 and is owned jointly by Gazprom and two unknown Ukrainian businessmen for the benefit of themselves and unnamed government officials. Experts have pointed out that the company appears to have links to organized crime. Despite the lack of transparency, Gazprom has insisted on the continuing role of RosUkrEnergo in the Russian-Ukrainian gas trade. In October 2008, Ukraine and Russia agreed that their government-owned gas companies, Naftogaz and Gazprom, will deal directly with each other.¶ The Ukrainian state-owned energy sector remains overly politicized, mismanaged, and laden with conflicts of interests. By now, Ukraine should have taken steps to modernize its energy sector, including privatization and getting rid of the shady middlemen.¶ Recommendations for the Obama Administration The Kremlin derives leverage from its control of gas production and supply networks. It uses its energy supplies to divide Europe on key issues, thus weakening Europe's bargaining power in economic and geopolitical relations with Russia. This dependence increases Europe's "continental drift" from the U.S. by limiting the foreign policy options available to America's European allies, and forcing them to choose between an affordable energy supply and siding with the U.S. and NATO on key strategic issues, such as missile defense or opposing Russia's treatment of Georgia.¶ U.S.interests lie in strengthening its European allies in their dealing with Russia, promoting transparency and energy security in Ukraine, and supporting Ukraine's course for Euro-Atlantic integration. In light of these circumstances, the U.S should:¶ Support European diversification of energy transporta¬tion routes in Eurasia. Specifically, the U.S. should support the construc¬tion of the Nabucco pipe¬line which would bring gas from the Caspian basin, via Azerbaijan and Georgia, to Europe. The U.S. should oppose any excessive dependence of its allies on Russian energy exports and should encourage application of the European anti-trust legislation against Gazprom.It will also be necessary to encourage EU members to establish and implement a joint policy on their dealing with Moscow in the energy sector.¶ Encourage Europe to construct more liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals, importing gas from Qatar, Algeria, and Nigeria, thus diversifying the sources of gas. Moreover, Germany, Italy, and other countries in Europe should be encouraged to develop coal, nuclear power, and competitive renewables as sources of affordable electricity.¶ Support Ukraine's efforts to modernize its energy sector, including reforms to increase transparency and energy efficiency, privatize and liberalize oil and gas sectors, depoliticize management, and decisively remove middlemen in energy transactions.¶ Time to Face the Cold Facts As frigid Arctic winds blow across Europe, it is time to face the cold facts: Dependence on Russian gas is undermining European security. Russia is likely to use its energy muscle to impose its geopolitical agenda on its neighbors, today and in the future. To change this situation, European countries, including Ukraine, need to work with the United States to diversify sources of energy and stand up to Russian bullying.

US natural gas exports undermine Putin
Washington Post 12 ([[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-posts-view/2011/12/07/gIQAoEIscO_page.html|Editorial Board]]/Staff Writers, “U.S. gas exports could limit Putin’s influence,” 10/25/12, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/us-natural-gas-exports-could-limit-vladimir-putins-influence/2012/09/25/e949342c-0691-11e2-858a-5311df86ab04_story.html]]) GANGEEZY
ONE THING THAT this year’s presidential candidates both get right is that the United States’ plentiful reserve of unconventional natural gas is an exceptional national asset, not only revolutionizing the energy business at home but also benefiting America and its allies abroad.¶ Over the past decade, new drilling methods have made oceans of fuel once trapped in subterranean rock formations easily accessible. The result is that the United States, which used to worry about importing huge quantities of natural gas, is now producing loads of its own, so much that domestic prices have tumbled and energy companies are asking for permission to liquefy and export some of the country’s output.¶ That’s good for a variety of reasons, including, as The Post’s [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/cumbersome-gazprom-losing-its-clout/2012/09/23/adf7ec08-fcf8-11e1-8adc-499661afe377_story.html|Will Englund and Kathy Lally reported]] Monday, accelerating the decline of Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas monopoly.¶ Gazprom finances Russian President Vladimir Putin’s corrupt political system. Under Mr. Putin’s direction, it has also been a notorious international villain, tying delivery of its precious fuel, a matter of life and death during European winters, to the Kremlin’s political agenda.¶ But with the United States no longer demanding massive quantities of liquefied natural gas from Russia or anywhere else — thus freeing up fuel for others — and gas production ramping up elsewhere, the economics that enable Gazprom’s abuse are changing.¶ The company, to be sure, is still a monster. It claimed $44 billion in profit last year — and that’s just what it reported. It provides most or all of the natural gas for many Eastern European nations, and it still has lucrative long-term supply contracts with European customers that link Gazprom’s prices to the price of oil.¶ However, a recent Brookings Institution analysis reported that [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/reports/2012/05/02-lng-exports-ebinger|a looser natural gas market has already empowered]] German utilities to renegotiate those contracts; some European customers are even ignoring them altogether and buying cheaper liquefied natural gas on spot markets.¶ If the United States begins exporting natural gas, it would only encourage positive long-term structural changes in this international trade — away from Kremlin domination and toward a larger and more nimble world market. European countries would not be the only ones to feel this effect. Gazprom intends to enter the gas-hungry Asian market, and it might find that it has less leverage over its potential customers than it had expected to wield.¶ If the economic case for allowing U.S. natural-gas exports, which [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/natural-gas-exports-offer-much-to-the-us-economy/2012/03/13/gIQA4WibCS_story.html|we have made]] in [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/cove-point-means-business/2012/05/06/gIQATG3T6T_story.html|other editorials]], doesn’t persuade those fighting to limit them, the possible geopolitical benefits should. With new supply from America and others sloshing around the world market later this decade, Mr. Putin might have to make a choice — between propping up a dysfunctional and decreasingly profitable monopoly or finally liberalizing the Russian energy sector, to the benefit of customers, shareholders, Russia’s neighbors and, ultimately, Russia, too.



===1AC Iran Prolif=== 
**Contention one is iran proliferation -**

**Iran prolif is likely and causes Israel-Iran war and destabilizing regional prolif**
Montgomery ‘11<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Eric Edelman, distinguished fellow at the center for strategic and budgetary assessments, Andrew Krepinevich, President of the CSBA, evan montgomery, research fellow at the CSBA “Why Obama Should Take Out Iran's Nuclear Program,”[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/136655/eric-s-edelman-andrew-f-krepinevich-jr-and-evan-braden-montgomer/why-obama-should-take-out-irans-nuclear-program?cid=nlc-this_week_on_foreignaffairs_co-111011-why_obama_should_take_out_iran-111011#)|http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/136655/eric-s-edelman-andrew-f-krepinevich-jr-and-evan-braden-montgomer/why-obama-should-take-out-irans-nuclear-program?cid=nlc-this_week_on_foreignaffairs_co-111011-why_obama_should_take_out_iran-111011#)]]</span>
The November 8 International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) report casts further doubt on
AND
a rapidly expanding nuclear arsenal - to become a nuclear power almost overnight.

**Proxy conflicts and miscalc ensures Israeli conflict goes nuclear**
Robb 10/10 <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Charles, B.A. from the University of Wisconsin–Madison, J.D. at the University of Virginia Law School, Charles Wald, Master of Political Science degree in international relations, Troy State University, Bipartisan Policy Center Board Member “The Price of Inaction: Analysis of Energy and Economic Effects of a Nuclear Iran,” October 10th, 2012, </span>**[[http://bipartisanpolicy.org/sites/default/files/PriceofInaction.pdf)|**http://bipartisanpolicy.org/sites/default/files/PriceofInaction.pdf)**]]</span>
A nuclear Iran would immediately encounter another nuclear state—even if an undeclared¶
AND
as a much smaller country Israel has far less room for maneuver.xxvi

**Saudi Arabia would proliferate leading to miscalc and accidental nuclear war**
**Edelman et al 2011,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Eric Edelman, Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, Andrew F Krepinevich, President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, Evan Braden Montgomery, Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments [“The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran: The Limits of Containment,” January/February edition of Foreign Policy] </span>
There is, however, at least one state that could receive significant outside support
AND
Middle East could lead to a new Great Game, with unpredictable consequences.

**Specifically causes Iran-Saudi nuclear conflict – no defense**
Robb 10/10 <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Charles, B.A. from the University of Wisconsin–Madison, J.D. at the University of Virginia Law School, Charles Wald, Master of Political Science degree in international relations, Troy State University, Bipartisan Policy Center Board Member “The Price of Inaction: Analysis of Energy and Economic Effects of a Nuclear Iran,” October 10th, 2012, </span>**[[http://bipartisanpolicy.org/sites/default/files/PriceofInaction.pdf)|**http://bipartisanpolicy.org/sites/default/files/PriceofInaction.pdf)**]]</span>
Saudi Arabia would be very likely to try to follow Iran across the nuclear threshold
AND
the¶ Cold War balance between the United States and the Soviet Union.

**Sanctions fail in the status quo – the US needs to make them more effective**
**Hannah 10/12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/blog/13097|John Hannah]], shadow government Foreign Policy, “[[http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/10/12/energy_insecurity_how_oil_dependence_undermines_america_s_effort_to_stop_the_irania|Energy insecurity: How oil dependence undermines America's effort to stop the Iranian bomb]],” October 12, 2012, [[http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/10/12/energy_insecurity_how_oil_dependence_undermines_america_s_effort_to_stop_the_irania_|http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/10/12/energy_insecurity_how_oil_dependence_undermines_america_s_effort_to_stop_the_irania]]) GANGEEZY</span>
Concerns about oil prices have often badly distorted U.S. policy toward the
AND
have promised to tackle the problem with very little to show for it.

**Exporting LNG makes sanctions effective**
**Fowler, 2011** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">business writer for the Houston Chronicle (Tom, “Study says U.S. shale may weaken Iran, Russia,” 7/21/11, http://www.chron.com/business/energy/article/Study-says-U-S-shale-may-weaken-Iran-Russia-2080593.php)</span>
Cutting U.S. dependence on LNG imports would also delay for another 20
AND
India or Pakistan until at least the mid-2020s,” Medlock writes.

**US LNG exports decreases Iran’s energy diplomacy**
**Medlock et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Kenneth, Report from an energy study sponsored by the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy and supported by the US Department of energy, Medlock is a fellow in energy and resource economics at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, Rice University, PhD in economics, “Shale Gas and U.S. National Security,”, July 2011, [[http://www.bakerinstitute.org/publications/EF-pub-DOEShaleGas-07192011.pdf]]) GANGEEZY</span>
The study finds that full development of commercial shale gas resources in the United States
AND
large natural gas resource holders such as Russia, Iran, and Venezuela.

**High risk of miscalc – severed diplomatic ties and both sides construct threats**
**Limbert 2-7-12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John, a former hostage in Iran (basically, the only reason this is in the quals is to make you feel guilty if you disagree with him), is professor of Middle Eastern studies at the U.S. Naval Academy. In August 2010 he left the U.S. State Department, where he had served as deputy assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern affairs. “We Need to Talk to Iran, But How?” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/ 2012/02/07/we_need_to_talk_to_Iran_but_how?page=full)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. DON'T UNDERESTIMATE THE RISK OF MISCALCULATION</span>
It is tempting to dismiss the current talk of war as bluff and bluster.
AND
its own defiant rhetoric and fail to distinguish between real and imaginary threats.
Complicating the issue is the fact that the United States and Iran have almost never
AND
and implacably hostile) and subhuman (violent, irrational, and unthinking).
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">T</span>__his mutual demonization -- born of fear and contempt -- raises the risk that a simple confrontation will lead to miscalculation and full-scale conflict.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Put simply, today, </span>__in the absence of direct communication, it would be very difficult to de-escalate a potential incident in the Persian Gulf or Afghanistan. With each side assuming the worst about the other, a minor incident could lead both sides into military and political disaster.__

**Iran wouldn’t be responsible with the bomb – offensive rhetoric proves**
**Zuckerberg 3-2-2012**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mortimer, Editor-in-Chief of the US News and World Report “Only the credible threat of military action against its nuclear weapons sites will deter Iran” [[http://www.usnews.com/opinion/mzuckerman/articles/2012/03/02/if-the-us-and-the-world-wont-stop-iran-israel-will-act-alone_print.html]]) BW</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nobody knows better than the Israelis what a mortal threat </span>__a radical Iranian regime__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> will be when it is </span>__armed with the nuclear weapon__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> it pretends it is not devising and the ballistic missiles it does not even bother to conceal. The combination </span>__will give the people of Israel 10 to 12 minutes' warning that they are faced with extinction.__
Aggressive regimes tend to be hypocritical, professing peace while planning war. (The
AND
should be cut off" and "it definitely will be cut off."
As Shimon Peres, the president of Israel and architect of the Oslo peace agreements
AND
at assassinating its own citizens and goes abroad in search of perceived enemies.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wiping out Israel is but one objective. </span>__If successful in its nuclear efforts, Iran would wield power as the dominant force in the energy-rich Persian Gulf region. By terror and proxy warfare, it would undermine and seek to destabilize moderate regimes, embolden the radicals, and bring an end to any possibility of Middle East peace.__

===1AC Warming=== 
**Warming is real and anthropogenic <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– carbon dioxide increase, polar ice records, melting glaciers, sea level rise</span></span>**
**Prothero 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Donald R. Prothero, Professor of Geology at Occidental College and Lecturer in Geobiology at the California Institute of Technology, 3-1-2012, "How We Know Global Warming is Real and Human Caused," Skeptic, vol 17 no 2, EBSCO]</span>
Converging Lines of Evidence¶ How do we know that global warming is real and
AND
pinnacles, but the rest of these drowned cities would lie deep underwater.

**Warming causes extinction**
**Costello 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] </span>
Advocacy about the health consequences will ensure that climate change is a high priority.
AND
as dissipation of metabolic heat becomes impossible, therefore making many environments uninhabitable.

**Independently, unmitigated carbon emissions cause extinction**
**Romm 12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joe Romm is a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, “Science: Ocean Acidifying So Fast It Threatens Humanity’s Ability to Feed Itself,” 3/2/2012, http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2012/03/02/436193/science-ocean-acidifying-so-fast-it-threatens-humanity-ability-to-feed-itself/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+climateprogress)</span>
The world’s oceans may be turning acidic faster today from human carbon emissions than they
AND
corals, mollusks and some plankton need for reef and shell-building.

**Overconsumption and low prices make the industry unsustainable – exports key to solve**
**Weinstein 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bernard, Associate Director, Maguire Energy Institute at the SMU Cox School of Business, “Fear of fracking stymies gas' potential,” 9-24-12, [[http://energy.nationaljournal.com/2012/09/sizing-up-the-role-of-natural.php?comments=expandall#comments|http://energy.nationaljournal.com/2012/09/sizing-up-the-role-of-natural.php?comments=expandall#comments]])</span>
Twenty years ago, the Barnett shale in north Texas was unknown. Today it’s
AND
benefits that can be realized by fully developing our domestic natural gas resources.

**US natural gas market will crash without exports**
**Hulbert and Goldthau 8-5-12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Matthew, consultant to a number of governments, most recently as Senior Research Fellow, Netherlands Institute for International Relations, and Andreas, prior to joining CEU, he worked for Rand, SWP Germany and the Paul Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, a Fellow with the Global Public Policy Institute’s Global Energy Governance program and an Adjunct Professor with Johns Hopkins University’s MSc in Energy Policy and Climate, Goldthau, Head of the Department of Public Policy at the Central European University, an American graduate school based in Budapest, Hungary, “Why America Can Make or Break A New Global Gas World,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/matthewhulbert/2012/08/05/why-america-can-make-or-break-a-new-global-gas-world/print/)</span>
The same debate is raging in the US. Despite the phenomenal breakthroughs in American
AND
fundamentals. US LNG could be the straw that breaks oil indexation back.

**Collapse of US natural gas makes warming inevitable**
**Bryce 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, “Inside the strange world of 'green energy' politics and how it's ruining the US,” 7-17-12, http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2012/07/17/inside-strange-world-green-energy-politics-and-how-it-ruining-us/)</span>
The United States is leading the world in reducing its emissions of carbon dioxide.
AND
fuels is equally beneficial in percentage terms no matter how fast the transition.”

**Renewables can’t fill in – that makes warming from emissions inevitable**
**Riley 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ala, professor of energy law at The City Law School at City University London, “Shale Gas to the Climate Rescue,” 8-13-12, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/14/opinion/shale-gas-to-the-climate-rescue.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print)</span>
The battle against runaway climate change is being lost. The green movement and the
AND
in carbon emissions that we can achieve by replacing coal with shale gas.

**Plan facilitates the transition towards greene energy – that sovles warming**
**Ju 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Anne Ju (senior science writer for the Cornell Chronicle) July 17, 2012 “Study Proves Natural Gas Can Bridge the Gap to a Clean Energy Economy” [[http://oilprice.com/Energy/Natural-Gas/Study-Proves-Natural-Gas-Can-Bridge-the-Gap-to-a-Clean-Energy-Economy.html]])</span>
Natural gas is a good transition step on the road to greener energy sources like
AND
fuels is equally beneficial in percentage terms no matter how fast the transition.”


**And, lack of leadership means other countries will never jump on board**
**Shepard 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – Don, Natural Resources/Water Resources University Laboratory Teacher and Former Financial Representative [“US Environmental Policy and Leadership,” May 22, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.brighthub.com/environment/science-environmental/articles/39623.aspx]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">] HURWITZ</span>

The Bush administration’s failure to see the big picture in reference to global environmental change
AND
the beacon it needs to be with a strong message from our lawmakers.

===1AC Solvency v1=== 
**Contention three is solvency –**

**Lack of exports will make natural gas drilling in the US ineffective**
**Maykuth 9/29** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(ANDREW MAYKUTH / THE PHILADELPHIA Insider, “With success, natural gas industry eyes exports,” 9/29/12, [[http://businessmirror.com.ph/home/global-eye/33430-with-success-natural-gas-industry-eyes-exports]]) GANGEEZY</span>
PHILADELPHIA—The natural-gas industry is drowning in its own success.¶ Drilling
AND
As technology develops, there’s no telling how high those numbers will go.”

**Natural gas exports are net beneficial for the United States**
**Levi 8/15** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://www.cfr.org/experts/energy-climate-oil-security/michael-a-levi/b11890|Michael A. Levi]] is a senior fellow for energy and the environment at the Council on Foreign Relations, “The Case for Natural Gas Exports,” 8/15/12, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/16/opinion/the-case-for-natural-gas-exports.html]]) GANGEEZY</span>
Critics pose a contrary set of arguments. They fear that demand for gas exports
AND
environment and low-income consumers is the right way to go.

**LNG Terminals would boost natural gas production and exports**
**Helman 6/13** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://blogs.forbes.com/christopherhelman/|Christopher Helman]], Forbes Staff, “The U.S. Has A Natural Gas Glut; Why Exporting It As LNG Is A Good Idea,” 6/13/12, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/energysource/2012/06/13/the-u-s-has-a-natural-gas-glut-why-exporting-it-as-lng-is-a-good-idea/]]) GANGEEZY</span>
The emergence of shale gas has caused natural gas prices in North America to drop
AND
and at the right time to capitalize on North American LNG export projects.

**A large supply of gas means price volatility won’t be major**
**Ebinger**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Senior fellow and Director of the Energy Security Initiative at Brookings</span>**, ‘12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Charles, “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for US Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” 5-2-12, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/events/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports/20120502_lng_exports]])</span>
There is also a lot of concern surrounding the impact of LNG exports on gas
AND
then export-induced volatility, we believe, will be extremely limited.

**Federal investment is key to solve – anything else decimates the market**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Davy </span>**Bui,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Seeking Alpha, March 15, 20</span>**12,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Can GE Help Chesapeake Boost Natural Gas Prices?”,[[http://seekingalpha.com/article/436481-can-ge-help-chesapeake-boost-natural-gas-prices]])</span>
Earlier this week, Chesapeake Energy ([[http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/chk|CHK]]) and General Electric ([[http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ge|GE]])
AND
at this point in time, exported gas is much closer to reality.

**Climate leadership leads to global solutions**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Khosla 09 –** </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Ashok</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**,**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> IUCN President, International Union for Conservation of Nature, A new President for the United States: We have a dream, 1-29-09, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://cms.iucn.org/news_events/?uNewsID=2595]]</span>

A rejuvenated America, with a renewed purpose, commitment and energy to make its
AND
of pollutants from our wasteful industries, construction, agriculture and transport systems.


===1AC Spratly Islands v1=== 
Contention one is the Spartly Islands -

Currently, Asian energy insecurity risks war over the South China Sea
Klare 12 (Michael, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College 5/10/12, “Michael Klare: Oil Wars On The Horizon”, [[http://peakoil.com/publicpolicy/michael-klare-oil-wars-on-the-horizon/]])
Conflict and intrigue over valuable energy supplies have been features of the international landscape for a long time. Major wars over oil have been fought every decade or so since World War I, and smaller engagements have erupted every few years; a flare-up or two in 2012, then, would be part of the normal scheme of things. Instead, what we are now seeing is a whole cluster of oil-related clashes stretching across the globe, involving a dozen or so countries, with more popping up all the time. Consider these flash-points as signals that we are entering an era of intensified conflict over energy. From the Atlantic to the Pacific, Argentina to the Philippines, here are the six areas of conflict — all tied to energy supplies — that have made news in just the first few months of 2012: * A brewing war between Sudan and South Sudan: On April 10th, forces from the newly independent state of South Sudan occupied the oil center of Heglig, a town granted to Sudan as part of a peace settlement that allowed the southerners to secede in 2011. The northerners, based in Khartoum, then mobilized their own forces and drove the South Sudanese out of Heglig. Fighting has since erupted all along the contested border between the two countries, accompanied by air strikes on towns in South Sudan. Although the fighting has not yet reached the level of a full-scale war, international efforts to negotiate a cease-fire and a peaceful resolution to the dispute have yet to meet with success. This conflict is being fueled by many factors, including economic disparities between the two Sudans and an abiding animosity between the southerners (who are mostly black Africans and Christians or animists) and the northerners (mostly Arabs and Muslims). But oil — and the revenues produced by oil — remains at the heart of the matter. When Sudan was divided in 2011, the most prolific oil fields wound up in the south, while the only pipeline capable of transporting the south’s oil to international markets (and thus generating revenue) remained in the hands of the northerners. They have been demanding exceptionally high “transit fees” — $32-$36 per barrel compared to the common rate of $1 per barrel — for the privilege of bringing the South’s oil to market. When the southerners refused to accept such rates, the northerners confiscated money they had already collected from the south’s oil exports, its only significant source of funds. In response, the southerners stopped producing oil altogether and, it appears, launched their military action against the north. The situation remains explosive. * Naval clash in the South China Sea: On April 7th, a Philippine naval warship, the 378-foot Gregorio del Pilar, arrived at Scarborough Shoal, a small island in the South China Sea, and detained eight Chinese fishing boats anchored there, accusing them of illegal fishing activities in Filipino sovereign waters. China promptly sent two naval vessels of its own to the area, claiming that the Gregorio del Pilar was harassing Chinese ships in Chinese, not Filipino waters. The fishing boats were eventually allowed to depart without further incident and tensions have eased somewhat. However, neither side has displayed any inclination to surrender its claim to the island, and both sides continue to deploy warships in the contested area. As in Sudan, multiple factors are driving this clash, but energy is the dominant motive. The South China Sea is thought to harbor large deposits of oil and natural gas, and all the countries that encircle it, including China and the Philippines, want to exploit these reserves. Manila claims a 200-nautical mile “exclusive economic zone” stretching into the South China Sea from its western shores, an area it calls the West Philippine Sea; Filipino companies say they have found large natural gas reserves in this area and have announced plans to begin exploiting them. Claiming the many small islands that dot the South China Sea (including Scarborough Shoal) as its own, Beijing has asserted sovereignty over the entire region, including the waters claimed by Manila; it, too, has announced plans to drill in the area. Despite years of talks, no solution has yet been found to the dispute and ffurther clashes are likely. * Egypt cuts off the natural gas flow to Israel: On April 22nd, the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation and Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Companyinformed Israeli energy officials that they were “terminating the gas and purchase agreement” under which Egypt had been supplying gas to Israel. This followed months of demonstrations in Cairo by the youthful protestors who succeeded in deposing autocrat Hosni Mubarak and are now seeking a more independent Egyptian foreign policy — one less beholden to the United States and Israel. It also followed scores of attacks on the pipelines carrying the gas across the Negev Desert to Israel, which the Egyptian military has seemed powerless to prevent. Ostensibly, the decision was taken in response to a dispute over Israeli payments for Egyptian gas, but all parties involved have interpreted it as part of a drive by Egypt’s new government to demonstrate greater distance from the ousted Mubarak regime and his (U.S.-encouraged) policy of cooperation with Israel. The Egyptian-Israeli gas link was one of the most significant outcomes of the 1979 peace treaty between the two countries, and its annulment clearly signals a period of greater discord; it may also cause energy shortages in Israel, especially during peak summer demand periods. On a larger scale, the cutoff suggests a new inclination to use energy (or its denial) as a form of political warfare and coercion. * Argentina seizes YPF: On April 16th, Argentina’s president, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, announced that her government would seize a majority stake in YPF, the nation’s largest oil company. Under President Kirchner’s plans, which she detailed on national television, the government would take a 51% controlling stake in YPF, which is now majority-owned by Spain’s largest corporation, the energy firm Repsol YPF. The seizure of its Argentinean subsidiary is seen in Madrid (and other European capitals) as a major threat that must now be combated. Spain’s foreign minister, José Manuel García Margallo, said that Kirchner’s move “broke the climate of cordiality and friendship that presided over relations between Spain and Argentina.” Several days later, in what is reported to be only the first of several retaliatory steps, Spain announced that it would stop importing biofuels from Argentina, its principal supplier — a trade worth nearly $1 billion a year to the Argentineans. As in the other conflicts, this clash is driven by many urges, including a powerful strain of nationalism stretching back to the Peronist era, along with Kirchner’s apparent desire to boost her standing in the polls. Just as important, however, is Argentina’s urge to derive greater economic and political benefit from its energy reserves, which include the world’s third-largest deposits of shale gas. While long-term rival Brazil is gaining immense power and prestige from the development of its offshore “pre-salt”petroleum reserves, Argentina has seen its energy production languish. Repsol may not be to blame for this, but many Argentineans evidently believe that, with YPF under government control, it will now be possible to accelerate development of
the country’s energy endowment, possibly in collaboration with a more aggressive foreign partner like BP or ExxonMobil. * Argentina re-ignites the Falklands crisis: At an April 15th-16th Summit of the Americas in Cartagena, Colombia — the one at which U.S. Secret Service agents were caught fraternizing with prostitutes — Argentina sought fresh hemispheric condemnation of Britain’s continued occupation of the Falkland Islands (called Las Malvinas by the Argentineans). It won strong support from every country present save (predictably) Canada and the United States. Argentina, which says the islands are part of its sovereign territory, has been raising this issue ever since it lost a war over the Falklands in 1982, but has recently stepped up its campaign on several fronts — denouncing London in numerous international venues and preventing British cruise ships that visit the Falklands from docking in Argentinean harbors. The British have responded by beefing up their military forces in the region and warning the Argentineans to avoid any rash moves. When Argentina and the U.K. fought their war over the Falklands, little was at stake save national pride, the stature of the country’s respective leaders (Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher vs. an unpopular military junta), and a few sparsely populated islands. Since then, the stakes have risen immeasurably as a result of recent seismic surveys of the waters surrounding the islands that indicated the existence of massive deposits of oil and natural gas. Several UK-based energy firms, including Desire Petroleum and Rockhopper Exploration, have begun off-shore drilling in the area and have reported promising discoveries. Desperate to duplicate Brazil’s success in the development of offshore oil and gas, Argentina claims the discoveries lie in its sovereign territory and that the drilling there is illegal; the British, of course, insist that it’s their territory. No one knows how this simmering potential crisis will unfold, but a replay of the 1982 war — this time over energy — is hardly out of the question. * U.S. forces mobilize for war with Iran: Throughout the winter and early spring, it appeared that an armed clash of some sort pitting Iran against Israel and/or the United States was almost inevitable. Neither side seemed prepared to back down on key demands, especially on Iran’s nuclear program, and any talk of a compromise solution was deemed unrealistic. Today, however, the risk of war has diminished somewhat – at least through this election year in the U.S. — as talks have finally gotten under way between the major powers and Iran, and as both have adopted (slightly) more accommodating stances. In addition, U.S. officials have been tamping down war talk and figures in the Israeli military and intelligence communities have spoken out against rash military actions. However, the Iranians continue to enrich uranium, and leaders on all sides say they are fully prepared to employ force if the peace talks fail. For the Iranians, this means blocking the Strait of Hormuz, the narrow channel through which one-third of the world’s tradable oil passes every day. The U.S., for its part, has insisted that it will keep the Strait open and, if necessary, eliminate Iranian nuclear capabilities. Whether to intimidate Iran, prepare for the real thing, or possibly both, the U.S. has been building up its military capabilities in the Persian Gulf area, deploying two aircraft carrier battle groupsin the neighborhood along with an assortment of air and amphibious-assault capabilities. One can debate the extent to which Washington’s long-running feud with Iran is driven by oil, but there is no question that the current crisis bears heavily on global oil supply prospects, both through Iran’s threats to close the Strait of Hormuz in retaliation for forthcoming sanctions on Iranian oil exports, and the likelihood that any air strikes on Iranian nuclear facilities will lead to the same thing. Either way, the U.S. military would undoubtedly assume the lead role in destroying Iranian military capabilities and restoring oil traffic through the Strait of Hormuz. This is the energy-driven crisis that just won’t go away. How Energy Drives the World All of these disputes have one thing in common: the conviction of ruling elites around the world that the possession of energy assets — especially oil and gas deposits — is essential to prop up national wealth, power, and prestige. This is hardly a new phenomenon. Early in the last century, Winston Churchill was perhaps the first prominent leader to appreciate the strategic importance of oil. As First Lord of the Admiralty, he converted British warships from coal to oil and then persuaded the cabinet to nationalize the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, the forerunner of British Petroleum (now BP). The pursuit of energy supplies for both industry and war-fighting played a major role in the diplomacy of the period between the World Wars, as well as in the strategic planning of the Axis powers during World War II. It also explains America’s long-term drive to remain the dominant power in the Persian Gulf that culminated in the first Gulf War of 1990-91 and its inevitable sequel, the 2003 invasion of Iraq. The years since World War II have seen a variety of changes in the energy industry, including a shift in many areas from private to state ownership of oil and natural gas reserves. By and large, however, the industry has been able to deliver ever-increasing quantities of fuel to satisfy the ever-growing needs of a globalizing economy and an expanding, rapidly urbanizing world population. So long as supplies were abundant and prices remained relatively affordable, energy consumers around the world, including most governments, were largely content with the existing system of collaboration among private and state-owned energy leviathans. But that energy equation is changing ominously as the challenge of fueling the planet grows more difficult. Many of the giant oil and gas fields that quenched the world’s energy thirst in years past are being depleted at a rapid pace. The new fields being brought on line to take their place are, on average, smaller and harder to exploit. Many of the most promising new sources of energy — like Brazil’s “pre-salt” petroleum reserves deep beneath the Atlantic Ocean, Canadian tar sands, and American shale gas – require the utilization of sophisticated and costly technologies. Though global energy supplies are continuing to grow, they are doing so at a slower pace than in the past and are continually falling short of demand. All this adds to the upward pressure on prices, causing anxiety among countries lacking adequate domestic reserves (and joy among those with an abundance). The world has long been bifurcated between energy-surplus and energy-deficit states, with the former deriving enormous political and economic advantages from their privileged condition and the latter struggling mightily to escape their subordinate position. Now, that bifurcation is looking more like a chasm. In such a global environment, friction and conflict over oil and gas reserves — leading to energy conflicts of all sorts — is only likely to increase. Looking, again, at April’s six energy disputes, one can see clear evidence of these underlying forces in every case. South Sudan is desperate to sell its oil in order to acquire the income needed to kick-start its economy; Sudan, on the other hand, resents the loss of oil revenues it controlled when the nation was still united, and appears no less determined to keep as much of the South’s oil money as it can for itself. China and the Philippines both want the right to develop oil and gas reserves in the South China Sea, and even if the deposits around Scarborough Shoal prove meager, China is unwilling to back down in any localized dispute that might undermine its claim to sovereignty over the entire region. Egypt, although not a major energy producer, clearly seeks to employ its oil and gas supplies for maximum political and economic advantage — an approach sure to be copied by other small and

mid-sized suppliers. Israel, heavily dependent on imports for its energy, must now turn elsewhere for vital supplies or accelerate the development of disputed, newly discovered offshore gas fields, a move that could provoke fresh conflict with Lebanon, which says
they lie in its own territorial waters. And Argentina, jealous of Brazil’s growing clout, appears determined to extract greater advantage from its own energy resources, even if this means inflaming tensions with Spain and Great Britain. And these are just some of the countries involved in significant disputes over energy. Any clash with Iran — whatever the motivation — is bound to jeopardize the petroleum supply of every oil-importing country, sparking a major international crisis with unforeseeable consequences. China’s determination to control its offshore hydrocarbon reserves has pushed it into conflict with other countries with offshore claims in the South China Sea, and into a similar dispute with Japan in the East China Sea. Energy-related disputes of this sort can also be found in the Caspian Sea and in globally warming, increasingly ice-free Arctic regions. The seeds of energy conflicts and war sprouting in so many places simultaneously suggest that we are entering a new period in which key state actors will be more inclined to employ force — or the threat of force — to gain control over valuable deposits of oil and natural gas. In other words, we’re now on a planet heading into energy overdrive.

Now is key – conflict over the Spratly Islands is going to escalate
O’Reilly 12 [Brendan O'Reilly, Asia Times “China walks tightrope over troubled waters” [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/NG06Ad01.html]], June 2012]//BM//
//Geopolitical shifts are upsetting the waters of the South China Sea, as both China and Vietnam take a three-pronged approach to strengthen their claims over the Spratly Islands. Military posturing, legal maneuvers, and economic strategies are being used by both sides to shore up their respective assertions of sovereignty over the contested islands. The intensification of the struggle for the Spratly Islands comes at a politically crucial time for the region. This quarrel over minor islands could have major global ramifications. The recent escalation of the long-standing dispute began on June 15, when the Vietnamese air force conducted a patrol over the Spratly Islands (called the "Truong Sa" by Vietnam and the "Nansha" by China). Senior Vietnamese lieutenant colonel Ngo Vinh Phuc claimed that such patrols would become a routine occurrence, saying: "The regiment decided that after the first flight to Truong Sa, it will be our regular duty, and we are always ready for it once we receive orders…With the flight, we want to reiterate once again that we will be always ready to protect the country's sacred sovereignty over seas and islands." [1] China (along with Malaysia, Brunei, and the Philippines) disputes Vietnam's claims of sovereignty over the Spratlys. In response to the perceived Vietnamese provocation, Chinese Defense Ministry spokesman Geng Yansheng announced the deployment of armed Chinese patrols in the disputed maritime region: "In order to protect national sovereignty and our security and development interests, the Chinese military has already set up a normal, combat-ready patrol system in seas under our control…"[2] Vietnam and China are inching closer to a possible armed confrontation, with neither side willing to back down. Both governments are utilizing political tactics to complement their military maneuvers. On June 21, the Vietnamese National Assembly passed the long-considered "Vietnamese Law of the Sea". This decree stipulates that the entirety of both the Spratly and the Paracel Islands are integral territories of Vietnam. After the passage of this law, the Chinese Foreign Ministry announced, "China strongly protests and firmly opposes such a move by Vietnam." China's Vice Foreign Minister Zhang Zhijun further condemned the Vietnamese move as "illegal, invalid and detrimental to peace and stability in the South China Sea."[3] Within hours of the passage of the "Vietnamese Law of the Sea", China's State Council approved plans for the establishment of a new prefecture-level city, Sansha, with jurisdiction over the contested area. The Spratly Islands, the Paracel Islands, and Macclesfield Bank now constitute "Sansha" (literally "Thee Sands"), officially the largest and southernmost city in the People's Republic of China, although it has no permanent residents. The establishment of Sansha is a significant legal tactic to solidify China's claims over the islands. The move was described by a Ministry of Civil Affairs spokesman as an important step to "further strengthen China's administration and development" of the disputed region. [4] The Chinese government is discussing the possibility of setting up a permanent military presence in order to protect its newest "city". There is also a strong economic component to the current standoff. The state-run China National Offshore Oil Cooperation (CNOOC) recently offered tenders to foreign companies to jointly develop extraction capabilities in the contested region. Vietnam claims that some of these zones lie in the undisputed continental shelf of Vietnam. The Vietnamese government has already has been jointly exploring some of these areas with Exxon Mobil, as well as Russia's Gazprom and Indian ONGC Videh. Passions are running high in Vietnam, as authorities allowed a rare unofficial protest in central Hanoi. Hundreds of demonstrators marched through the rain to the Chinese embassy on Sunday. Many were chanting "Down with China" as local police blocked traffic and cordoned off the embassy. [5] The Strategic background The timing of the ongoing military, economic, and political posturing of China and Vietnam is significant for several reasons. First, the escalation of tensions between China and Vietnam comes at the same time as an easing of frictions between China and the Philippines. The Chinese and Filipino governments have reached a verbal agreement for both nations to pull back their naval forces from within the lagoon of the disputed Scarborough Shoal. Filipino Foreign Secretary Albert del Rosario has confirmed that Chinese warships have withdrawn from the area. On the Chinese side, Foreign Ministry Spokesman Hong Lei confirmed that the trend in the disputed region is "is overall toward peace."[6] That tensions between Vietnam and China are heating up while the rift between the Philippines and China seems to be cooling off is noteworthy. China has been accused by some observers of attempting "divide and rule" tactics towards its neighbors in the South China Sea. Regardless of semantics, it seems prudent for Beijing to focus on one disputant at a time. Taken individually, rival claimants in the South China Sea cannot hope to come close to countering Beijing's political, economic, and military prowess. Furthermore, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations' (ASEAN) Foreign Minister Meeting is scheduled to being July 9 in Cambodia. US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is expected to attend the meeting. Disputes over the South China Sea are sure to dominate the discussion. The upcoming ASEAN meeting provides added motivation for both China and Vietnam to solidify their legal claims over the Spratly Islands. Both sides are jockeying for position in order to strengthen their case before the ASEAN conference takes place. China has specifically claimed that the Vietnamese moves are "illegal" in the context of the 2002 Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea. This Declaration, agreed upon by ASEAN members and China, explicitly states "The Parties concerned undertake to resolve their territorial and jurisdictional disputes by peaceful means, without resorting to the threat or use of force…" China considers the Vietnamese air force flights and unilateral claims of sovereignty as a violation of this agreement. Thirdly, India, Japan, and the Republic of Korea (ROK) held their first trilateral "dialogue" in New Delhi on June 29. Although disputes in the South China Sea were not specifically mentioned,//
//Indian External Affairs Secretary Sanjay Singh stressed: "There is common commitment to maintaining freedom of the seas, combating terrorism and promoting inclusive economic growth. India, Japan and ROK depend heavily on the Sea Lanes of Communications (SLOCs) for their energy security."[7] Clearly the reference to "maintaining freedom of the seas" is a reference to concerns over conflicting claims of sovereignty in the South China Sea. That India, Japan, and South Korea have jointly reaffirmed their commitment to the free flow of maritime traffic as tensions mount between China and Vietnam is extremely relevant. China increasingly views India as a strategic factor in the South China Sea. Furthermore, South Korea and Japan (as well as China itself) are both enormously reliant on the imported energy that goes through the disputed maritime region. Clearly, India, Japan, and the ROK have an interest in keeping the South China Sea from becoming a Chinese lake, while at the same time avoiding open conflict. Finally, the ratcheting up of tensions between China and Vietnam is taking place at the same time as the annual Rim of the Pacific (RIMPAC) naval exercises off the coast of Hawaii. Twenty-two nations are participating in this year's RIMPAC, including regional US allies such as Australia, Japan, and South Korea. Even Russia is sending a vessel to join in the massive coordinated training mission. China is notably absent, while Vietnam is conspicuously present as an observer of the exercises. The 2012 RIMPAC exercises brought together a host of Pacific powers, which are to various degrees wary of a rising China. The United States and its allies are keeping a close eye on the potential flashpoint of the South China Sea. For years the US has been trying to "internationalize" the South China Sea dispute by offering to help negotiations. In 2010, Clinton announced in Vietnam "The United States has a national interest in freedom of navigation, open access to Asia's maritime commons and respect for international law in the South China Sea."[8] One can expect further expressions of concern over the issue from Clinton at the upcoming ASEAN meeting. Cold War in warm waters? Despite the ongoing tensions, it is in both China and Vietnam's interest to avoid open conflict over the Spratly Islands. China has little to gain from starting a military struggle that could threaten its spectacular economic rise, and Vietnam can't rely on external intervention to sufficiently balance China's military edge. Neither country wants a repeat of their bloody 1979 border war. Although tough talk on both sides has international implications, such rhetoric is meant primarily for domestic consumption. It should be noted that military forces from the People's Republic of China (PRC), the Taiwan-based Republic of China (ROC), Vietnam, the Philippines, and Malaysia have been stationed in the Spratly Islands for some years, without a single combat-related casualty. There does remain the possibility of a miscalculation or a miscommunication leading to a major military clash. In this eventuality, the geopolitical ramifications could be enormous. Washington views the South China Sea impasse as an important lever from which to extract geopolitical leverage from Beijing. The US government is examining all contingencies for how to handle or possibly thwart the rising clout of China. The United States has strong military, economic, and political ties with the Philippines, and is keen on developing closer relations with Vietnam. For their part, the Philippines and Vietnam see American power as a possible counterbalance to China's regional superiority. The United States is seeking to win international sympathy and prestige by portraying itself as an honest broker seeking to establish a "rule-based mechanism" for dealing with the South China Sea disputes. The American government is also trying to shore up alliances with regional countries uneasy of China's profound and continuing rise. Furthermore, a cornerstone of the much-discussed US "pivot" towards Asia is a plan to base 60% of the US navy in the Pacific. Meanwhile, the Chinese government is engaged in a difficult balancing act. On the one hand, the People's Republic of China must play a strong hand in order to solidify its claims over the resource-rich South China Sea. Domestic politics are important - the Communist Party of China cannot appear weak, especially regarding perceived provocations from smaller nations. It should be noted that the governments of both the People's Republic of China and the Taiwan-based Republic of China have long asserted total Chinese sovereignty over the disputed area. On the other hand, it is in China's long-term interests to avoid a military clash for two important reasons. First, China's economic rise could be threatened by the unpredictable effects of open military conflict, especially in the vicinity of vital shipping lanes. Second, China does not want to frighten its neighbors into the open arms of the United States. It should be noted that China did not initiate the latest round of tensions with Vietnam. Rather, China retaliated for each Vietnamese move, both militarily and politically. This policy of retaliation, rather than instigation, is indicative of the Chinese balancing act in the region. Chinese state media often complains of a "Cold War mentality" polluting the political landscape in the United States. Indeed, despite claims to the contrary, the US strategic pivot towards Asia is almost certainly aimed primarily at containing China. Sixty percent of the US fleet is rather overkill for containing the regional ambitions of a half-starving North Korea. The problem with a "Cold War mentality" is that such thinking is profoundly outdated. The United States may be the longstanding strategic ally of Japan and South Korea, but China is their largest trading partner. Even India, the much-touted "lynchpin" of the United States' Asia-Pacific strategy, does more trade with the People's Republic than it does with Uncle Sam. America's Asian allies are increasingly moving into China's ever-growing economic orbit. Furthermore, the United States and China are so economically mutually dependent as to render open conflict profoundly unwise. The Chinese government is unlikely to risk their long-term strategic interests with overly aggressive military adventurism. China will retaliate in kind for any military, political, or economic moves by other disputant states in the South China Sea. However, China will not initiate an unpredictable conflict that could threaten the Middle Kingdom's ongoing economic rise and encourage her trading partners to seek a greater American presence in the region. China knows that, in the long term, economic development and trade will have greater geopolitical weight in the region than 60% of the American fleet.//

//Spratly Island conflict goes nuclear//
//Doble 11 [John, has an M.A. in International Affairs from American University and a B.A. in Political Science and History from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. “Maritime Disputes a Likely Source of Future Conflict” [[http://www.policymic.com/articles/2279/maritime-disputes-a-likely-source-of-future-conflict]] December]//BM
Yesterday, the U.S. and China were involved in a nuclear exchange. The cause of this conflict was a war brought about between China and the Philippines after the Philippines seized several of the Spratly Islands to secure natural resources and the sea lanes traversing the South China seas, both of which it would use to advance itself in the global economy. China refused to accept this action and attacked, and the U.S. was dragged in after the president was pressured by Congress and American allies to honor America’s mutual-defense agreement with the Philippines. The result was disastrous. While this is a hypothetical example, similar scenarios are becoming increasingly probable. Due to increasing economic competition and climate change, a source of future conflict will be the contest for control over the seas. The U.S. must adequately plan for future contingencies to avoid any surprises and to discern what it needs to do to prevent the worst-case scenario from occurring. Economic competition on the seas can be seen most clearly in terms of port construction. As it stands, over [[@http://permanent.access.gpo.gov/websites/nduedu/www.ndu.edu/inss/books/Books_2002/Globalization_and_Maritime_Power_Dec_02/01e_intro.htm|90% of all goods]] measured by weight or volume are transported by cargo ship, and port construction greatly increase a nation’s access to foreign markets and appeal as a manufacturing center. Conversely, a nation’s investment in ports reduces the amount of goods traveling to other nations, thus damaging their economies. Unlike other forms of infrastructure investment, maritime infrastructure implicitly affects international security. This competition has already created conflict in the Middle East. Bilateral efforts to improve relations between Iraq and Kuwait were scuttled earlier this year after Kuwait announced it was investing heavily in building a new port (the Mubarak Kabeer) only 20 kilometers away from a port Iraq was building (the Grand al-Faw). Rapprochement swiftly ended over Iraqi fears of economic strangulation and calls for eternal brotherhood were replaced by curses. Nowadays, rumors abound that Iraqi and Kuwaiti forces are infiltrating the border areas and Iraqi militants have already launched rockets from Iraq into Kuwait and threatened to kidnap the contractors building the Mubarak Kabeer port. While threatening, this conflict is unlikely to explode as Iraq is in no shape to wage war and labors under a history of belligerence it is trying to expunge. But what if a similar sequence of events occurred in Southeast/East Asia, where GDP is growing an average of [[@http://siteresources.worldbank.org/EXTPOVERTY/Resources/336991-1318940394432/Job-Trends-October-2011.htm|6%-7% a year]](with China at [[@http://www.cnbc.com/id/44937991/China_Third_Quarter_Growth_at_2_Year_Low_But_No_Rate_Cut_Seen|9.1%]]) and states can operate more freely? The U.S. is investing more resources in the region at the exact moment when growing economic competition make conflict more likely. Secondly, climate change will soon have a massive impact on the world’s coastal areas. Global sea levels are likely to [[@http://www.stimson.org/spotlight/the-deep-blue-sea-coastal-zones-and-climate-change/|rise between 80 to 200cm at the end of the century]] and would submerge large tracts of land, displacing millions of people and wiping out urban and agricultural areas. Since they are built on the coast, this would also [[@http://www.stimson.org/books-reports/maritime-security/|damage or destroy many ports worldwide]] and jeopardize international commerce as we know it. These losses would be difficult to replace given the increased environmental pressures Southeast/East Asian states would face as well as the spillover problems that would arise as low-lying countries sink into the sea and collapse. Competition over the ports that survive will be fierce as whoever possesses them would likely dominate the sea lanes and international commerce for some time, leading to regional dominance. Similarly, economic competition and climate change are going to going to cause havoc on the military industrial base supporting naval power in the region. It is expensive to build a competitive navy, and many states will be unable to afford it if they need to constantly adapt to economic and environmental pressure. China and India are already building up their naval forces and will likely be naval powers into the foreseeable future, but the U.S. will gain a lot of allies in the future struggling to get the U.S. involved in every security dispute they have. Like WWI, someone may gamble incorrectly, and a conflict that starts as a minor incident may explode into something much greater. The U.S. consequently needs to utilize all facets of American power, from military to diplomatic to foreign aid, to confront these complex challenges and prevent them from escalating out of control. We need to promote broader acceptance of free trade on the open seas as well as democratic governance to limit the appeal of coercive power and the ability to use that power arbitrarily. We need a way to maintain the strength of our alliances without getting sucked into conflicts we don’t want, besides selling more weapons that only make war increasingly likely. Regardless of the exact policies, policymakers need to start thinking ahead on how it will deal with the implications economic competition and climate change are going to have on maritime power. Intelligent observers of the Middle East knew for years that the authoritarian status quo was unsustainable, yet no plans were made to respond to the collapse of those regimes and our response could have been better. Current trends indicate that the current status quo in Southeast/East Asia is equally untenable. Do we have a plan in place?


Specifically, China is seeking LNG imports in the status quo
Zhu and Sethuraman 12 (Bloomberg reporters (Winnie AND Dinakar, “China’s Easing Grip on Gas Opening Door to North America Exports,” 6/4/12, [[http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-06-04/china-s-easing-grip-on-gas-opening-door-to-north-america-exports]])
Chinese consumers may buy natural gas at more than five times current U.S. futures prices as the government eases control over domestic costs, opening the world’s biggest energy market to more overseas sellers.¶ Wholesale, or city-gate gas, in China’s Guangdong and Guangxi provinces, where the country is running a pilot program linking prices to oil, cost as much as 2.74 yuan (43 cents) a cubic meter since December, according to the National Development and Reform Commission. That’s about $12 per million British thermal units, or five times more expensive than benchmark U.S. futures in New York.¶ China plans to extend the pricing nationwide in two to three years, according to the official Xinhua News Agency, potentially boosting imports from North America, where Henry Hub futures contracts fell to a 10-year low in April. While China seeks to boost the use of cleaner fuels such as gas, retail price caps are discouraging energy companies from increasing supplies because they have to pay international rates and sell at a loss on the domestic market.¶ “The price reform helps to create an environment that supports a high cost of gas,” Gavin Thompson, a manager at Wood Mackenzie Ltd. in Beijing, said in a telephone interview May 30. “U.S. pricing will be attractive to the Chinese buyers. Looking at our view of delivered cost into east coast China and Henry Hub gas prices, U.S. Gulf Coast exports look competitive.”¶ Executives from the world’s biggest gas companies including Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Exxon Mobil Corp., OAO Gazprom and PetroChina Co. are likely to discuss the prospect of rising North American exports to Asia when they meet in Kuala Lumpur this week for the World Gas Conference. Shell Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser last month called gas “the fuel of the future.”¶ U.S. LNG¶ The U.S. may export about 40 million metric tons of liquefied natural gas a year by 2022 as low-cost supplies from shale deposits encourage shipments to Asia, Jen Snyder, a Boston-based analyst at Wood Mackenzie, said May 22. LNG is natural gas chilled to minus 260 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 162 degrees Celsius), liquefying it for shipment by tanker.¶ U.S. exports will cost Asia buyers $9.35 per million Btu, based on a Henry Hub price of $3 and after accounting for freight rates, according to a May 29 presentation byCheniere Energy Inc. ([[http://investing.businessweek.com/research/stocks/snapshot/snapshot.asp?ticker=LNG:US|LNG]]), the Houston-based company that’s developing the nation’s largest LNG export terminal in Louisiana. That compares to $11.08 per million Btu that China paid on average in April, according to customs data.¶ Price Slump¶ Gas futures slumped to $1.91 per million Btu on the New York Mercantile Exchange on April 19, the lowest price since September 2001. The contract for July delivery was at $2.348 per million Btu today in New York.¶ “China will be seriously importing gas from North America as it offers potentially lower prices compared to other sources,” Neil Beveridge, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a telephone interview May 30. “There is a lot of interest from Asian buyers, but the question is very much a political one in terms of how much the U.S. will allow to export.”¶ If China’s gas pricing reform is rolled out nationwide, retail gas prices could double to as much as 5 yuan per cubic meter, from 2.5 yuan currently, Beveridge said in a May 9 report. Wellhead prices would be three times those implied by U.S. forward price curves, according to Beveridge.¶ Import Surge¶ China may purchase an additional 10 million tons of LNG a year by 2030 from overseas markets, including North America, South America and Africa, on top of a further 10 million tons from traditional sources in Asia and the Middle East, Fereidun Fesharaki, the Singapore-based chairman of Facts Global Energy, said in a report last month.¶ China, which aims to double gas use in five years by 2015, increased overseas purchases of LNG by 31 percent to a record 12.2 million tons last year, according to Chinese customs. Purchases may more than double to 30 million tons by 2015 and rise fourfold to 50 million tons by 2020, according to Bernstein.

Chinese pursuit of LNG increases the risk of conflict by catalyzing an Asian naval arms race
Shobert, 2012 ***quotes Hulbert, Research Director for the Asian Energy Security Program at the National Bureau of Asia Research, Shobert is managing director of Rubicon Strategy Group, a consulting firm specialized in strategy analysis for companies looking to enter emerging economies, ¶ (Benjamin A., “China's resources policy attracts attention of congress,” 2/2/12, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China_Business/NB02Cb01.html)]]
Washington is grudgingly coming to terms with a more sophisticated and confident Beijing, one that is more willing to put out and fight for its own interests. For those in DC who thought that China's evolution towards the poorly defined "responsible stakeholder" would mean the country would ultimately come to step in line with Western policies, China's pursuit of natural resources with little consideration of who they are doing business with has been disconcerting. ¶ American and European policy makers certainly wish that Beijing would be more selective in who it chooses to do business with; however, as Mikkal Herberg, the Research Director for the Asian Energy Security Program at the National Bureau of Asia Research shared last week, "Energy security has become a critical political and economic concern for Beijing's leadership." ¶ Herberg pointed out, "China's leaders fear that energy shortages and rising energy costs could undermine the country's social instability." As long-time China watchers know, these fears are central to understanding China's policies. Herberg made this point in his testimony when he stated, "For a regime that increasingly stakes its political right to rule on economic performance and living standard, the threat of economic stagnation could threaten the continued political monopoly of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP)." ¶ Herberg's USCC testimony pointed out what he calls China's "energy nationalism"; namely, as he describes it, "an energy version of economic nationalism and mercantilism prevalent in Asia". He believes that China's fears - one he suggests are shared by other regional players who have similar concerns about access to oil and natural gas - are critical to understand why China acts as it does in pursuit of natural resources internationally. ¶ Beyond how China's rapid modernization impacts the world's supply of natural resources, Beijing's efforts to not only secure supply but ensure safety during transportation into the country are making waves in the South China Sea. Herberg pointed out that "China's growing dependence on oil and liquid natural gas (LNG) flowing through the Indian Ocean, Malacca Straits and [the] South China Sea is also a key driver of its naval modernization and move towards 'Blue Water' power projection capabilities by the PLA Navy." ¶ Experts like Herberg understand and fear that these moves by the PLA Navy are "setting off alarm bells across the region and contributing to a regional naval arms race." ¶ While much of last Thursday's testimony focused on China's pursuit of oil and natural gas, Dr Elizabeth Economy, a Starr Senior Fellow and Director of Asia Studies at the Council of Foreign Relations, pointed towards China's pursuit of water as equally important. According to Dr Economy, "More than 40 mid- to large-sized cities in Northern China, such as Beijing and Tianjin, boast crisis-level water shortages." ¶ Water shortages due to depletion are not the only problem. As she shared last week, "over 90% of groundwater [in China] is polluted by urban sewage, refuse and industrial waste." This means that, according to research by Jon Bowermaster that Dr Economy referenced, "estimates are that 400,000 people are driven from their homes annually as a result of lack of water". As with many challenges the Chinese government must face, this is another that poses a threat to the country's social stability. ¶ In many ways, China's pursuit of each of these natural resources is understandable and should be seen as an inevitable outgrowth of the massive economic gains experienced across the country over the last several decades. The US Congress has at least three fears, as evidenced by last week's hearing. ¶ First, whether China can be convinced to join the developed West in ostracizing countries like Iran specifically, or whether China's pursuit of natural resources will take precedent. ¶ Second, Washington fears that China's model for obtaining natural resources through its national oil companies (NOC) and their "go-out" strategy may be locking up resources to which Western countries will also need access. Because the NOC approach is built on a state-to-state relationship, in many cases it prevents private operators in the West from competing. ¶ China can, and has, brought to bear more than a simple commercial transaction for oil; rather, the NOC can weave together government-sponsored loans, infrastructure projects and other amenities to convince a foreign government to work with China. Washington thus far does not have a good answer to this. ¶ Third, and perhaps most pernicious, is Washington's fear that China's pursuit of natural resources will destabilize the region, whether intentionally or accidentally. This fear might be made real by a military confrontation in the crowded South China Sea, where multiple borders and territorial disputes still exist, or this fear could be realized if China's modernization causes it to damn waterways that nourish the many river deltas throughout Southeast Asia.

Expanding US LNG exports solves – meets Asian energy demands
Levi 12- the David M. Rubenstein senior fellow for energy and environment at the Council on Foreign Relations, a nonpartisan foreign-policy think tank and membership organization(Michael, “A strategy for U.S. Natural Gas Exports”, The Hamilton Project, June 2012, [[http://www.hamiltonproject.org/files/downloads_and_links/06_exports_levi.pdf]])
Asia has not been so fortunate, and the reasons for this are not entirely clear. Asian natural gas prices are still tied closely to crude oil prices, normally through politically involved negotiations. Asian buyers still have fewer options for large-scale imports than European buyers do—key buyers, including Japan and Korea, do not have access to pipeline imports—which reduces their relative power. In addition, at the same time that European customers were gaining new leverage in 2011, Japan, the largest LNG importer in Asia, was paralyzed by the disaster at its Fukushima nuclear power plant. As that accident led to widespread nuclear shutdowns, Japan massively increased its demand for LNG to meet critical electricity needs. Japan, desperate to avoid further economic harm, was not in a position to negotiate aggressively with natural gas suppliers.¶ Many analysts in both the United States and Asia have speculated that U.S. entry into the Asian LNG market as a major supplier (along with others) could help create the conditions for a move toward market pricing of natural gas, or at least to a lessening of individual producers’ market power and, hence, political influence. Predicting political influence is a near-impossible business, but to examine whether U.S. exports might help encourage such a transformation, it is useful to compare the potential magnitude of U.S. LNG deliveries to other important scales in the natural gas market. As of 2010, the world’s top five LNG exporters were Qatar (8.2 bcf/d), Indonesia (3.3 bcf/d), Malaysia (3.3 bcf/d), Australia (2.7 bcf/d), and Nigeria (2.6 bcf/d) (IGU 2010). The top supplier to Japan was Indonesia (2.0 bcf/d), and the top supplier to Korea was Qatar (1.1 bcf/d). The spot market accounted for slightly more than a fifth of traded LNG, totaling slightly less than seven billion cubic feet a day.¶ All of these figures will increase in the future. EIA projections are far from definitive, but they are instructive. World natural gas production is projected to increase by 26 percent over the next decade (EIA 2011). Korean imports are expected to rise from to 4.1 billion cubic feet a day, while Japanese imports are expected to hold fairly steady at their present level. Chinese imports, including pipeline gas, are expected to rise from a negligible amount to over nine billion cubic feet each day by the end of the decade, while daily Indian imports are expected to reach three billion cubic feet per day. ¶ These figures suggest that U.S. LNG exports could become influential if they increased to toward the higher end of the range discussed thus far in this paper, and if exports were priced off the U.S. benchmark. The United States could potentially assume a large market share in several pivotal markets, and perhaps be dominant in one or more. This would give consumers greater leverage in their negotiations with other suppliers. At a minimum, by diversifying the pricing of their imports, it would partly insulate LNG importers from oil market fluctuations.

Specifically, the plan is key to supply China
Levi, 2012 David M. Rubenstein Senior Fellow for Energy and the Environment Director of the Program on Energy Security and Climate Change Council on Foreign Relations (Michael, “A Strategy for U.S. Natural Gas Exports,” June 2012, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/6/13%20exports%20levi/06_exports_levi.pdf)
The prospect of further exports beyond those initially approved to non-FTA countries will be attractive to many potential importers, including Korea, Japan, India, and China. This will be the case even if the United States approves enough capacity to theoretically cover plausible export demands, since many firms that have received approval to export LNG may not actually succeed in building export facilities. ¶ U.S. trade negotiators should use the prospect of preferential access to future exports in trade negotiations with those countries, which could create an opportunity to further increase the economic benefits to the United States of natural gas exports. In particular, the United States should make access to U.S. LNG a part of ongoing TPP negotiations with Japan, something Japan has signaled that it desires. The specific “asks” in return for preferential access should be determined by broader U.S. priorities in these negotiations. State Department diplomats should also emphasize the value of FTA access to U.S. LNG exports in their engagement with those Korean policy-makers who are skeptical of the U.S.Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS).¶ The prospect of a more diverse LNG market—which U.S. entry as an exporter would contribute to—carries with it the prospect of introducing more transparent market-based pricing to gas trade, particularly in Asia. That would help disentangle natural gas trade from political relationships, particularly between Asian consumers and Middle Eastern suppliers, to the broader benefit of the United States. The U.S. government has limited influence over the geopolitical impact of LNG exports, but it can take several steps to improve the odds of success.



===1AC Manufacturing Adv.=== 


The manufacturing sector is growing but it’s a question of sustainability

Curtin 10/17 – Staff Writer for CNBC News and the Daily Ticker (Stacy, 10/17/12, “Manufacturing 'Recovery' Not All It's Cracked Up to Be?,” [[http://www.cnbc.com/id/49448048]])
While proposals by both candidates aim to build a more robust manufacturing sector, those types of jobs account for only 9% of the total U.S. workforce. That number is likely to grow according to estimates by the Boston Consulting Group, which projects 5 million manufacturing and supporting jobs will return home over the next 10 years largely to due rising production and labor costs in emerging markets like China.¶ But is this recovery in manufacturing sustainable?¶ Harvard Business School professors Gary Pisano and Willy Shih do not believe it is. They joined The Daily Ticker's Aaron Task to discuss their new book "Producing Prosperity: Why America Needs a Manufacturing Renaissance" which underscores how important a strong manufacturing base is for American innovation.¶ "I think we've seen obviously some shorter-term blips, if you will, in the last year or so," says Pisano. "They are good, but I would not get overly excited that that is suggesting some big structural long-term change."¶ While there may be a slight uptick in the level of manufacturing jobs, the professors are quick to note that the type of jobs that left the U.S. are not the ones that are coming back. "They are low-skilled, lower wage jobs," Pisano says of the jobs that are returning. If wages are to grow, the nation needs to be involved in more sophisticated manufacturing that other countries cannot do.

Low US natural gas prices allow the manufacturing industry to reinvigorate itself
Boman 12 – Karen Boman (Writer for Downstream Today, a petrochemicals news agency) March 2012 “Panel: Low Natural Gas Prices Give US Manufacturers Edge” [[http://www.downstreamtoday.com/news/article.aspx?a_id=35687&AspxAutoDetectCookieSupport=1]]
Low U.S. natural gas prices currently give the U.S. manufacturing sector a slight competitive cost edge that could enable the country to create the 20 million jobs in the next decade. Now, the biggest challenge facing the U.S. is not screwing up this opportunity, according to a panel of industry officials speaking at IHS CERAWeek in Houston on Tuesday. The U.S. unconventional resource boom, which has resulted in the creation of thousands of jobs associated with Pennsylvania’s Marcellus shale, has the potential to create more jobs as oil and gas producers begin scratching the surface on plays such as the Utica. Royalties generated from oil and gas production also could allow the U.S. to dig itself out of its financial hole, said Karen Harbert, president of the Institute for 21st Century Energy. However, the nation’s lack of comprehensive regulatory, tort and tax policies are still hurdles in the development of new energy projects, which in turn impacts the availability of fuel suppliers for the U.S. manufacturing base. “We have a regulatory environment that makes it easier to go to Nigeria than Nebraska,” said Harbert, noting that U.S. oil and gas production has increased only because of increase production from private and state lands, while restrictive federal policies have resulted in declines in oil and gas production from federally-held lands. While industry understands the need for health, safety and environmental regulations, the government should play the role as a facilitator of job development and work with businesses to achieve goals, rather than taking an adversarial posture with politicized decisions, said Jay Timmons, president and CEO of the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM). “We’re all guilty of the fact that we don’t understand the true cost of importing energy from foreign sources,” said Scott Angelle, secretary of Louisiana’s Department of Natural Resources. The high natural gas prices seen in 2008 prompted a number of petrochemical plant closures and layoffs in Louisiana, leading some state officials to believe the state’s petrochemical industry would never be the same, said Scott Angelle. That situation reversed itself in 2011 after the U.S. shale boom unlocked significant new gas resources. As a result, petrochemical companies such as Dow planning to open new plants or expand existing facilities. South Africa-based Sasol also unveiled plans last year to open a gas-to-liquids (GTL) facility in southwestern Louisiana. Angelle commented that GTL technology could be a real gamechanger in Louisiana’s petrochemical industry. Union Pacific Railroad also met with state officials to seek to invest $200 million in new rail capacity in Louisiana to meet industrial demand. “When railroads want to spend, you make it happen,” said Angelle. The abundance of natural gas in the U.S. has led to discussions of increasing gas use within the country, either through more gas-fired power generation or implementing gas-powered vehicles in the U.S. long haul fleet. However, new pipeline and other infrastructure will be needed to allow for more gas consumption. Efforts by the U.S. government to distort the market to increase gas consumption should also be avoided, said Harbert. Timmons did praise the White House’s efforts to offer job more job training. Educating skilled workers to fill U.S. manufacturing jobs poses another challenge for the sector, said Timmons, who noted than five percent of manufacturing jobs, or 600,000 positions, can’t be filled due to lack of skilled labor. NAM and the federal government have partnered to offer manufacturing job training programs at community colleges around the country. The skills that students learn through these programs are transferable between states, allowing students flexibility in what region of the country they go to work. The manufacturing industry has perception problem that the oil and gas industry has faced in attracting younger workers – that it’s old school and not as advanced technologically as other industries, said Jay Timmons. However, the reality is that today’s manufacturing industry “is not your grandfather’s manufacturing industry,” Timmons noted. “It’s new, it’s innovative,” Timmons said. “I would even venture to say it’s sexy.”

It spills over – a strong manufacturing base is key to advanced manufacturing
Lind 12 (Michael Lind is policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation. Joshua Freedman is a program associate in New America’s Economic Growth Program. “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,” pg online @ http://growth.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Lind,%20Michael%20and%20Freedman,%20Joshua%20-%20NAF%20-%20Value%20Added%20America%27s%20Manufacturing%20Future.pdf)
Manufacturing, R&D and the U.S. Innovation Ecosystem Perhaps the greatest contribution of manufacturing to the U.S. economy as a whole involves the disproportionate role of the manufacturing sector in R&D. The expansion in the global market for high-value-added services has allowed the U.S. to play to its strengths by expanding its trade surplus in services, many of them linked to manufacturing, including R&D, engineering, software production and finance. Of these services, by far the most important is R&D. The United States has long led the world in R&D. In 1981, U.S. gross domestic expenditure on R&D was more than three times as large as that of any other country in the world. And the U.S. still leads: in 2009, the most recent year for which there is available data, the United States spent more than 400 billion dollars. European countries spent just under 300 billion dollars combined, while China spent about 150 billion dollars.14 In the United States, private sector manufacturing is the largest source of R&D. The private sector itself accounts for 71 percent of total R&D in the United States, and although U.S. manufacturing accounts for only 11.7 percent of GDP in 2012, the manufacturing sector accounts for 70 percent of all R&D spending by the private sector in the U.S.15 And R&D and innovation are inextricably connected: a National Science Foundation survey found that 22 percent of manufacturers had introduced product innovations and the same percentage introduced process innovations in the period 2006-2008, while only 8 percent of nonmanufacturers reported innovations of either kind.16 Even as the manufacturing industry in the United States underwent major changes and suffered severe job losses during the last decade, R&D spending continued to follow a general upward growth path. A disproportionate share of workers involved in R&D are employed directly or indirectly by manufacturing companies; for example, the US manufacturing sector employs more than a third of U.S. engineers.17 This means that manufacturing provides much of the demand for the U.S. innovation ecosystem, supporting large numbers of scientists and engineers who might not find employment if R&D were offshored along with production. Why America Needs the Industrial Commons Manufacturing creates an industrial commons, which spurs growth in multiple sectors of the economy through linked industries. An “industrial commons” is a base of shared physical facilities and intangible knowledge shared by a number of firms. The term “commons” comes from communallyshared pastures or fields in premodern Britain. The industrial commons in particular in the manufacturing sector includes not only large companies but also small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), which employ 41 percent of the American manufacturing workforce and account for 86 percent of all manufacturing establishments in the U.S. Suppliers of materials, component parts, tools, and more are all interconnected; most of the time, Harvard Business School professors Gary Pisano and Willy Shih point out, these linkages are geographic because of the ease of interaction and knowledge transfer between firms.18 Examples of industrial commons surrounding manufacturing are evident in the United States, including the I-85 corridor from Alabama to Virginia and upstate New York.19 Modern economic scholarship emphasizes the importance of geographic agglomeration effects and co-location synergies. 20 Manufacturers and researchers alike have long noted the symbiotic relationship that occurs when manufacturing and R&D are located near each other: the manufacturer benefits from the innovation, and the researchers are better positioned to understand where innovation can be found and to test new ideas. While some forms of knowledge can be easily recorded and transferred, much “know-how” in industry is tacit knowledge. This valuable tacit knowledge base can be damaged or destroyed by the erosion of geographic linkages, which in turn shrinks the pool of scientists and engineers in the national innovation ecosystem. If an advanced manufacturing core is not retained, then the economy stands to lose not only the manufacturing industry itself but also the geographic synergies of the industrial commons, including R&D. Some have warned that this is already the case: a growing share of R&D by U.S. multinational corporations is taking place outside of the United States.21 In particular, a number of large U.S. manufacturers have opened up or expanded R&D facilities in China over the last few years.22 Next Generation Manufacturing A dynamic manufacturing sector in the U.S. is as important as ever. But thanks to advanced manufacturing technology and technology-enabled integration of manufacturing and services, the very nature of manufacturing is changing, often in radical ways. What will the next generation of manufacturing look like? In 1942, the economist Joseph Schumpeter declared that “the process of creative destruction is the essential fact about capitalism.” By creative destruction, Schumpeter did not mean the rise and fall of firms competing in a technologically-static marketplace. He referred to a “process of industrial mutation— if I may use that biological term—that incessantly revolutionizes the economic structure from within, incessantly destroying the old one, incessantly creating the new one.” He noted that “these revolutions are not strictly incessant; they occurred in discrete rushes that are separated from each other by spaces of comparative quiet. The process as a whole works incessantly, however, in the sense that there is always either revolution or absorption of the results of revolution.”23 As Schumpeter and others have observed, technological innovation tends to be clustered in bursts or waves, each dominated by one or a few transformative technologies that are sometimes called “general purpose technologies.” Among the most world-transforming general purpose technologies of recent centuries have been the steam engine, electricity, the internal combustion engine, and information technology.24 As epochal as these earlier technology-driven innovations in manufacturing processes and business models proved to be, they are rapidly being superseded by new technologydriven changes as part of the never-ending process of Schumpeterian industrial mutation. The latest wave of innovation in industrial technology has been termed “advanced manufacturing.” The National Science and Technology Council of the Executive Office of the President defines advanced manufacturing as “a family of activities that (a) depend on the use and coordination of information, automation, computation, software, sensing, and networking, and/or (b) make use of cutting edge materials and emerging capabilities enabled by the physical and biological sciences, for example, nanotechnology, chemistry, and biology. It involves both new ways to manufacture existing products and the manufacture of new products emerging from new advanced technologies.”25 Already computer-aided design (CAD) and computer-aided manufacturing (CAM) programs, combined with computer numerical control (CNC), allow precision manufacturing from complex designs, eliminating many wasteful trials and steps in finishing. CNC is now ubiquitous in the manufacturing sector and much of the employment growth occurring in the sector requires CNC skills or training. Information technology has allowed for enterprise resource planning (ERP) and other forms of enterprise software to connect parts of the production process (both between and within a firm), track systems, and limit waste when dealing with limited resources. Other areas in which advanced manufacturing will play a role in creating new products and sectors and changing current ones are: Supercomputing. America’s global leadership in technology depends in part on whether the U.S. can compete with Europe and Asia in the race to develop “exascale computing,” a massive augmentation of computer calculating power that has the potential to revolutionize predictive sci ences from meteorology to economics. According to the Advanced Scientific Computing Advisory Committee (ASCAC), “If the U.S. chooses to be a follower rather than a leader in exascale computing, we must be willing to cede leadership” in industries including aerospace, automobiles, energy, health care, novel material development, and information technology.26 Robotics: The long-delayed promise of robotics is coming closer to fulfillment. Google and other firms and research consortiums are testing robotic cars, and Nevada recently amended its laws to permit autonomous automobiles.27 Amazon is experimenting with the use of robots in its warehouses.28 Nanotechnology may permit manufacturing at extremely small scales including the molecular and atomic levels.29 Nanotechnology is also a key research component in the semiconductor indusmanutry, as government funding is sponsoring projects to create a “new switch” capable of supplanting current semiconductor technology.30 Photonics or optoelectronics, based on the conversion of information carried by electrons to photons and back, has potential applications in sectors as diverse as telecommunications, data storage, lighting and consumer electronics. Biomanufacturing is the use of biological processes or living organisms to create inorganic structures, as well as food, drugs and fuel. Researchers at MIT have genetically modified a virus that generates cobalt oxide nanowires for silicon chips.31 Innovative materials include artificial “metamaterials” with novel properties. Carbon nanotubes, for example, have a strength-to-weight ratio that no other material can match.32 Advanced manufacturing using these and other cuttingedge technologies is not only creating new products and new methods of production but is also transforming familiar products like automobiles. The rapid growth in electronic and software content in automobiles, in forms like GPS-based guidance systems, information and entertainment technology, anti-lock brakes and engine control systems, will continue. According to Ford, around 30 percent of the value of one of its automobiles is comprised by intellectual property, electronics and software. In the German automobile market, electronic content as a share of production costs is expected to rise from 20-30 percent in 2007 to 50 percent by 2020.33

Advanced manufacturing checks every war
Paone 9 (Chuck, 66th Air Base Wing Public Affairs for the US Air Force, 8-10-09, “Technology convergence could prevent war, futurist says,” http://www.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123162500)
The convergence of "exponentially advancing technologies" will form a "super-intelligence" so formidable that it could avert war, according to one of the world's leading futurists. Dr. James Canton, CEO and chairman of the Institute for Global Futures, a San Francisco-based think tank, is author of the book "The Extreme Future" and an adviser to leading companies, the military and other government agencies. He is consistently listed among the world's leading speakers and has presented to diverse audiences around the globe. He will address the Air Force Command and Control Intelligence, Survelliance and Reconnaissance Symposium, which will be held Sept. 28 through 30 at the MGM Grand Hotel at Foxwoods in Ledyard, Conn., joining Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Norton Schwartz and a bevy of other government and industry speakers. He offered a sneak preview of his symposium presentation and answered various questions about the future of technology and warfare in early August. "The superiority of convergent technologies will prevent war," Doctor Canton said, claiming their power would present an overwhelming deterrent to potential adversaries. While saying that the U.S. will build these super systems faster and better than other nations, he acknowledged that a new arms race is already under way. "It will be a new MAD for the 21st century," he said, referring to the Cold War-era acronym for Mutually Assured Destruction, the idea that a nuclear first strike would trigger an equally deadly response. It's commonly held that this knowledge has essentially prevented any rational state from launching a nuclear attack. Likewise, Doctor Canton said he believes rational nation states, considering this imminent technology explosion, will see the futility of nation-on-nation warfare in the near future. Plus there's the "socio-economic linking of the global market system." "The fundamental macroeconomics on the planet favor peace, security, capitalism and prosperity," he said. Doctor Canton projects that nations, including those not currently allied, will work together in using these smart technologies to prevent non-state actors from engaging in disruptive and deadly acts. As a futurist, Doctor Canton and his team study and predict many things, but their main area of expertise -- and the one in which he's personally most interested -- is advanced and emerging technology. "I see that as the key catalyst of strategic change on the planet, and it will be for the next 100 years," he said. He focuses on six specific technology areas: "nano, bio, IT, neuro, quantum and robotics;" those he expects to converge in so powerful a way. Within the information technology arena, Doctor Canton said systems must create "meaningful data," which can be validated and acted upon. "Knowledge engineering for the analyst and the warfighter is a critical competency that we need to get our arms around," he said. "Having an avalanche of data is not going to be helpful." Having the right data is. "There's no way for the human operator to look at an infinite number of data streams and extract meaning," he said. "The question then is: How do we augment the human user with advanced artificial intelligence, better software presentation and better visual frameworks, to create a system that is situationally aware and can provide decision options for the human operator, faster than the human being can?" He said he believes the answers can often be found already in what he calls 'edge cultures.' "I would look outside of the military. What are they doing in video games? What are they doing in healthcare? What about the financial industry?" Doctor Canton said he believes that more sophisticated artificial intelligence applications will transform business, warfare and life in general. Many of these are already embedded in systems or products, he says, even if people don't know it.


===1AC Oil Advantage V1=== 

Oil shocks are inevitable in the status quo
LENGYEL 2008
(Col Gregory J. Lengyel, USAF is a Air Force Fellow for the Brookings Institution “The Walker Papers” Department of Defense energy strategy teaching an old dog new tricks June 25, 2008 MM)
Instability and hostility towards the United States characterizes most of the oil-producing world. An oil-supply crisis no longer can be dismissed as a low-probability event. Hostile governments and terrorist organizations are well aware of America’s and her allies’ vulnerability and could use the oil supply as a strategic weapon to attack the United States. Oil-supply disruptions to the United States could happen in several ways, occurring singularly or combined. These include disruptions in world production by natural disaster, politically motivated embargo, terrorist attack on production and transmission infrastructure, or closure of world oil transit choke points. Any longterm disruption in oil supply to the United States is a national security issue that is unacceptable to the US government. However, most of these scenarios assume a major worldwide upheaval or political and other major changes in the primary oilproduction regions of the world. These scenarios also go beyond the scope of this paper.

Those cause war
Roberts 04 (Paul, Regular Contributor to Harpers and NYT Magazine, “The End of Oil: On The Edge of a Perilous New World”, p. 93-94)
The obsessive focus on oil is hardly surprising, given the stakes. In the fast-moving world of oil politics, oil is not simply a source of world power, but a medium for that power as well, a substance whose huge importance enmeshes companies, communities, and entire nations in a taut global web that is sensitive to the smallest of vibrations. A single oil "event" — a pipeline explosion in Iraq, political unrest in Venezuela, a bellicose exchange between the Russian and Saudi oil ministers — sends shockwaves through the world energy order, pushes prices up or down, and sets off tectonic shifts in global wealth and power. Each day that the Saudi-Russian spat kept oil supplies high and prices low, the big oil exporters were losing hundreds of millions of dollars and, perhaps, moving closer to financial and political disaster — while the big consuming nations enjoyed what amounted to a massive tax break. Yet in the volatile world of oil, the tide could quickly turn. A few months later, as anxieties over a second Iraq war drove prices up to forty dollars, the oil tide abruptly changed directions, transferring tens of billions of dollars from the economies of the United States, Japan, and Europe to the national banks in Riyadh, Caracas, Kuwait City, and Baghdad, and threatening to strangle whatever was left of the global economic recovery. So embedded has oil become in today's political and economic spheres that the big industrial governments now watch the oil markets as closely as they once watched the spread of communism — and with good reason: six of the last seven global recessions have been preceded by spikes in the price of oil, and fear is growing among economists and policymakers that, in today's growth-dependent, energy-intensive global economy, oil price volatility itself may eventually pose more risk to prosperity and stability and simple survival than terrorism or even war.

The newest study proves a shock is the biggest, fastest route to collapse
Sandra Erwin 11-1, editor of National Defense Magazine, “30% Cut in U.S. Oil Imports Would Avert Future Catastrophe, Study Warns”, [[http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/blog/Lists/Posts/Post.aspx?ID=577]]
Unless the United States curtails its consumption of petroleum, these military greybeards caution, any future crisis that disrupts oil supplies could hamstring the nation’s economy and cause global instability. “We have seen oil shocks before … But at today’s level of U.S. consumption, a sustained disruption would be devastating – crippling our very freedom of movement,” said retired Army Gen. Paul Kern, chairman of the military advisory board of CNA Corp., a government-funded think thank. In a report released Nov. 1, a group of 13 generals and admirals are calling for "immediate, swift and aggressive action" over the next decade to reduce U.S. oil consumption by 30 percent. Of nearly 88 million barrels of oil consumed worldwide every day, the United States eats up the biggest share, with 20 million barrels. Slightly more than half of the petroleum the United States consumes comes from foreign countries: Two-thirds from the Middle East, and the rest from Canada and Mexico. “You could wake up tomorrow morning and hear that the Iranians sense an attack on their nuclear power plants and preemptively take steps to shut off the flow of oil in the Gulf,” retired Marine Corps Gen. James T. Conway says in a CNA news release. “The U.S. would likely view this as a threat to our economy, and we would take action. And there we are, drawn into it.” Even a small interruption of daily oil supply can have huge ripple effects, the study contends. Even though just 2 percent of U.S. oil supplies come from Libya, the military campaign there this summer prompted the U.S. Department of Energy to release 30 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. A larger crisis could disrupt the entire fabric of the U.S. economy, the CNA analysis concludes. If America reduces its current rate of oil consumption by 30 percent and diversifies its fuel sources, the study says, the U.S. economy would be relatively insulated from such upheaval, even in the event of a complete shutdown of a strategic chokepoint like the Strait of Hormuz, the international passageway for 33 percent of the world’s seaborne oil shipments. The report, titled, “Ensuring America's Freedom of Movement: A National Security Imperative to Reduce U.S. Oil Dependence,” was sponsored by the San Francisco-based Energy Foundation, a partnership of major donors interested in solving the world's energy problems. CNA analyzed the potential economic impact of a future oil disruption. Under a worst-case scenario 30-day closure of the Strait of Hormuz, the analysis finds that the U.S. would lose nearly $75 billion in GDP. By cutting current levels of U.S. oil dependence by 30 percent, the impact would be nearly zero.


Extinction
Kemp 10
Geoffrey Kemp, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center, served in the White House under Ronald Reagan, special assistant to the president for national security affairs and senior director for Near East and South Asian affairs on the National Security Council Staff, Former Director, Middle East Arms Control Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2010, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-4
The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos, is the opposite of the first scenario; everything that can go wrong does go wrong. The world economic situation weakens rather than strengthens, and India, China, and Japan suffer a major reduction in their growth rates, further weakening the global economy. As a result, energy demand falls and the price of fossil fuels plummets, leading to a financial crisis for the energy-producing states, which are forced to cut back dramatically on expansion programs and social welfare. That in turn leads to political unrest: and nurtures different radical groups, including, but not limited to, Islamic extremists. The internal stability of some countries is challenged, and there are more “failed states.” Most serious is the collapse of the democratic government in Pakistan and its takeover by Muslim extremists, who then take possession of a large number of nuclear weapons. The danger of war between India and Pakistan increases significantly. Iran, always worried about an extremist Pakistan, expands and weaponizes its nuclear program. That further enhances nuclear proliferation in the Middle East, with Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and Egypt joining Israel and Iran as nuclear states. Under these circumstances, the potential for nuclear terrorism increases, and the possibility of a nuclear terrorist attack in either the Western world or in the oil-producing states may lead to a further devastating collapse of the world economic market, with a tsunami-like impact on stability. In this scenario, major disruptions can be expected, with dire consequences for two-thirds of the planet’s population.

Best studies prove growth solves conflict
Jedidiah Royal 10, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signalling And The Problem Of Economic Crises”, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Second, on a dyadic level. Copeland's (1996. 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, the likelihood for conflict increases, as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession lends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-rein force each other. (Blombcrj! & Hess. 2002. p. 89) Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg. Hess. & Weerapana, 2004). which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. "Diversionary theory" suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag' effect. Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995), and Blombcrg. Mess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999). and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics arr greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force.

US-Sino oil competition is zero-sum
Karl 12 ([[http://foreignpolicyblogs.com/author/davidkarl/|David J. Karl]], is president of the Asia Strategy Initiative, an analysis and advisory firm that has a particular focus on South Asia, Master’s degree in international relations from the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies. “New World Coming: America the Energy Superpower,” July 24th, 2012, [[http://foreignpolicyblogs.com/2012/07/24/new-world-coming-america-the-energy-superpower/]]) GANGEEZY
With both the U.S. and China more confident about their energy security, zero-sum thinking also could relinquish its hold on bilateral relations. One expert [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/17/the_era_of_oil_abundance|sees]] a hint of this in Washington’s [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204883304577223083067806776.html|recent tolerance]]of Chinese investment in the U.S. energy sector compared to the[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2005/06/30/AR2005063002081.html| political firestorm caused in 2005]]when a state-run Chinese oil company tried to acquire Unocal, a California-based oil firm.¶ But these positive scenarios are contingent upon China being able to duplicate America’s energy renaissance. There are strong reasons to question this assumption. Despite increasing efforts to tie up with Western forms, its energy sector is dominated by lumbering state-run behemoths that cannot effectively utilize innovative drilling technologies or resolve the daunting problems caused by the country’s complex geology. Some of its large shale beds also are in remote parts of the country that are not well connected with the burgeoning urban centers on its eastern coast. And since fracking techniques require copious amounts of water, China’s serious deficiencies in water resources pose another constraint. A recent Chinese government report acknowledged the “relatively poor” prospects for the development of shale gas.¶ If China cannot reap the benefits of the shale revolution, Beijing would then be faced with two contending strategic choices. The first is to double-down on its aggressive external acquisition efforts while also beefing up its military and diplomatic presence in the Middle East and Africa even as the United States lessens its profile in these areas and sharpens its focus on China’s own region. The need to expand the level of resources devoted far from home might not go down well with leaders still focused on domestic economic development.¶ Alternatively, Beijing could enter into a cooperative arrangement with Washington regarding large-scale delivery of U.S. natural gas. This would be an unpalatable option for Chinese hawks since it grants strategic leverage to Washington. One could expect nationalist tribunes to howl about granting the country’s chief rival a chokehold on China’s economy every bit as real as the Malacca Straits or how the United States instituted an oil embargo in an attempt to bring another rising Asian power – imperial Japan – to its knees in the mid-1930s. From the U.S. perspective, however, this scenario would indeed have a moderating effect on Chinese strategic behavior as well as offering the diminution of bilateral zero-sum calculations noted above.

Independently Chinese oil dependence risks CCP collapse

Pho and Spelman 12 – [[http://www.wilsoncenter.org/staff/sandy-pho|Sandy Pho]] - Program Assistant at the Kissinger Institute on China and the United States - B.S. in Justice and Social Inquiry from Arizona State University with an emphasis on international studies AND Douglas Spelman - Senior Adviser at the Kissinger Institute on China and the United States (4/24/12, Wilson Center, “Increasing Oil Demand in China: Rising Risks and International Consequences,” [[http://www.wilsoncenter.org/event/increasing-oil-demand-china-rising-risks-and-international-consequences]])
The Chinese economy’s ability to emerge from the Global Financial Crisis seemingly unscathed while the United States remains mired in recession bolsters a widespread image of a (strong) People’s Republic of China (PRC) rising against the backdrop of a declining (weak) United States of America. Receiving less attention however, are the profound domestic concerns facing the Chinese government today. Policymakers in Beijing place a heavy premium on internal political stability, and the potential unrest that can result from some of these internal issues has spurred a debate in China on how to address them. According to Woodrow Wilson Center Public Policy Scholar, [[http://www.wilsoncenter.org/staff/elizabeth-wishnick|Dr. Elizabeth Wishnick]], one such concern focuses on energy security; specifically, China’s increasing need for oil in order to sustain its unprecedented economic growth (and therefore the legitimacy of the Chinese Communist Party). In a talk hosted by the Kissinger Institute on China and the United States, and the Asia Program on April 24, 2012, Dr. Wishnick looked at the various measures Beijing is currently taking to manage its oil risks, which she concludes are leading to concern among its neighbors and thus creates a security dilemma. It is this security dynamic Dr. Wishnick aims to explore further in a larger book project in which she examines “China as a risk society,” the risks caused by the weaknesses of its political and economic system, and the foreign policy and security consequences of transnational risks in China.¶ What are the risks of China’s increasing oil demand? Although coal (for now and the foreseeable future) is China’s main source of energy, oil fuels many important sectors of the Chinese economy (e.g., the petrochemical industry and transportation). Not surprisingly, since the early 1990’s China’s growing appetite for oil has outgrown domestic production. In 1993 and 1996 the PRC became a net importer of oil products and crude oil respectively. Today, China is second only to the United States in oil imports and it is estimated that 75 percent of its oil will be imported by 2030. This heavy reliance on imported oil raises concerns in Beijing over possible supply interruptions as well as the transportation of those supplies to China.

Triggers civil war and lashout
Friedberg, Professor of Politics and International Affairs – Princeton, Asia Expert – CFR, ‘10
(Aaron, “Implications of the Financial Crisis for the US-China Rivalry,” Survival, Volume 52, Issue 4, August, p. 31 – 54)
Despite its magnitude, Beijing's stimulus programme was insufficient to forestall a sizeable spike in unemployment. The regime acknowledges that upwards of 20 million migrant workers lost their jobs in the first year of the crisis, with many returning to their villages, and 7m recent college graduates are reportedly on the streets in search of work.9 Not surprisingly, tough times have been accompanied by increased social turmoil. Even before the crisis hit, the number of so-called 'mass incidents' (such as riots or strikes) reported each year in China had been rising. Perhaps because it feared that the steep upward trend might be unnerving to foreign investors, Beijing stopped publishing aggregate, national statistics in 2005.10 Nevertheless, there is ample, if fragmentary, evidence that things got worse as the economy slowed. In Beijing, for example, salary cuts, layoffs, factory closures and the failure of business owners to pay back wages resulted in an almost 100% increase in the number of labour disputes brought before the courts.11 Since the early days of the current crisis, the regime has clearly been bracing itself for trouble. Thus, at the start of 2009, an official news-agency story candidly warned Chinese readers that the country was, 'without a doubt … entering a peak period of mass incidents'.12 In anticipation of an expected increase in unrest, the regime for the first time summoned all 3,080 county-level police chiefs to the capital to learn the latest riot-control tactics, and over 200 intermediate and lower-level judges were also called in for special training.13 Beijing's stimulus was insufficient At least for the moment, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) appears to be weathering the storm. But if in the next several years the economy slumps again or simply fails to return to its previous pace, Beijing's troubles will mount. The regime probably has enough repressive capacity to cope with a good deal more turbulence than it has thus far encountered, but a protracted crisis could eventually pose a challenge to the solidarity of the party's leadership and thus to its continued grip on political power. Sinologist Minxin Pei points out that the greatest danger to CCP rule comes not from below but from above. Rising societal discontent 'might be sufficient to tempt some members of the elite to exploit the situation to their own political advantage' using 'populist appeals to weaken their rivals and, in the process, open[ing] up divisions within the party's seemingly unified upper ranks'.14 If this happens, all bets will be off and a very wide range of outcomes, from a democratic transition to a bloody civil war, will suddenly become plausible. Precisely because it is aware of this danger, the regime has been very careful to keep whatever differences exist over how to deal with the current crisis within bounds and out of view. If there are significant rifts they could become apparent in the run-up to the pending change in leadership scheduled for 2012. Short of causing the regime to unravel, a sustained economic crisis could induce it to abandon its current, cautious policy of avoiding conflict with other countries while patiently accumulating all the elements of 'comprehensive national power'. If they believe that their backs are to the wall, China's leaders might even be tempted to lash out, perhaps provoking a confrontation with a foreign power in the hopes of rallying domestic support and deflecting public attention from their day-to-day troubles. Beijing might also choose to implement a policy of 'military Keynesianism', further accelerating its already ambitious plans for military construction in the hopes of pumping up aggregate demand and resuscitating a sagging domestic economy.15 In sum, despite its impressive initial performance, Beijing is by no means on solid ground. The reverberations from the 2008-09 financial crisis may yet shake the regime to its foundations, and could induce it to behave in unexpected, and perhaps unexpectedly aggressive, ways.

Extinction
Yee, Associate Professor of Government @ Hong Kong Baptist University, and Storey, Asian-Pacific Center for Security Studies, ‘2
(Herbert and Ian, China Threat: Perception, Myths, and Reality, p. 5)
The fourth factor contributing to the perception of a china threat is the fear of political and economic collapse in the PRC, resulting in territorial fragmentation, civil war and waves of refugees pouring into neighbouring countries. Naturally, any or all of these scenarios would have a profoundly negative impact on regional stability. Today the Chinese leadership faces a raft of internal problems, including the increasing political demands of its citizens, a growing population, a shortage of natural resources and a deterioration in the natural environment caused by rapid industrialisation and pollution. These problems are putting a strain on the central government’s ability to govern effectively. Political disintegration or a Chinese civil war might result in millions of Chinese refugees seeking asylum in neighbounng countries. Such an unprecedented exodus of refugees from a collapsed PRC would no doubt put a severe strain on the limited resources of China’s neighbours. A fragmented china could also result in another nightmare scenario — nuclear weapons falling into the hands of irresponsible local provincial leaders or warlords.12 From this perspective, a disintegrating China would also pose a threat to its neighbours and the world.

Even if the CCP doesn’t collapse they’ll lashout causing nuclear war
San Renxing 5, Epoch Times Staff, “The CCP’s Last-ditch Gamble: Biological and Nuclear War”, 8-5-05, [[http://en.epochtimes.com/news/5-8-5/30975.html]]
Since the Party’s life is “above all else,” it would not be surprising if the CCP resorts to the use of biological, chemical, and nuclear weapons in its attempt to postpone its life. The CCP, that disregards human life, would not hesitate to kill two hundred million Americans, coupled with seven or eight hundred million Chinese, to achieve its ends. The “speech,” free of all disguises, lets the public see the CCP for what it really is: with evil filling its every cell, the CCP intends to fight all of mankind in its desperate attempt to cling to life. And that is the theme of the “speech.” The theme is murderous and utterly evil. We did witness in China beggars who demanded money from people by threatening to stab themselves with knives or prick their throats on long nails. But we have never, until now, seen a rogue who blackmails the world to die with it by wielding biological, chemical, and nuclear weapons. Anyhow, the bloody confession affirmed the CCP’s bloodiness: a monstrous murderer, who has killed 80 million Chinese people, now plans to hold one billion people hostage and gamble with their lives

Oil dependence makes US China war inevitable
KLARE 2010 (Michael Klare, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, “Tomgram: Michael Klare, China Shakes the World,” September 19, 2010, http://www.tomdispatch.com/blog/175297/tomgram%3A_michael_klare%2C_china_shakes_the_world)
Already, China’s efforts to bolster its ties with its foreign-oil providers have produced geopolitical friction with the United States. There is a risk of far more serious Sino-American conflict as we enter the “tough oil” era and the world supply of easily accessible petroleum rapidly shrinks. According to the DoE, the global supply of oil and other petroleum liquids in 2035 will be 110.6 million barrels per day – precisely enough to meet anticipated world demand at that time. Many oil geologists believe, however, that global oil output will reach a peak level of output well below 100 million barrels per day by 2015, and begin declining after that. In addition, the oil that remains will increasingly be found in difficult places to reach or in highly unstable regions. If these predictions prove accurate, the United States and China -- the world’s two leading oil importers -- could become trapped in a zero-sum great-power contest for access to diminishing supplies of exportable petroleum. What will happen under these circumstances is, of course, impossible to predict, especially since the potential for conflict abounds. If both countries continue on their current path -- arming favored suppliers in a desperate bid to secure long-term advantage -- the heavily armed petro-states may also become ever more fearful of, or covetous of, their (equally well-equipped) neighbors. With both the U.S. and China deploying growing numbers of military advisers and instructors to such countries, the stage could be set for mutual involvement in local wars and border conflicts. Neither Beijing nor Washington may seek such involvement, but the logic of arms-for-oil diplomacy makes this an unavoidable risk. Conflict over planetary oil reserves is not, however, the only path that China’s new energy status could open. It is possible to imagine a future in which China and the United States cooperate in pursuing oil alternatives that would obviate the need to funnel massive sums into naval and military arms races. President Obama and his Chinese counterpart, Hu Jintao, seemed to glimpse such a possibility when they agreed last November, during an economic summit in Beijing, to collaborate in the development of alternative fuels and transportation systems. At this point, only one thing is clear: the greater China’s reliance on imported petroleum, the greater the risk of friction and conflict with the United States, which relies on the same increasingly problematic suppliers of energy. The greater its reliance on coal, the less comfortable our planet will become. The greater its emphasis on alternative fuels, the more likely it may make the twenty-first century China’s domain. At this point, how China will apportion its energy needs among the various candidate fuels remains unknown. Whatever its choices, however, China’s energy decisions will shake the world.

That causes extinction
Jiakr, 9-8-10. “America media: United States, if a nuclear war would lead to human extinction.” [[http://jiakr.com/article?v=6&u=america-media-united-states-if-a-nuclear-war-would-lead-to-human-extinction]].
Global Times, October 12 Associated Press reported that American International Asian News edition was published October 7, former research fellow of the Ground Self-Defense Military Takai - Mitsuo (Mitsuo Takai) entitled "US-China nuclear war will come to an end of the world" in articles. They show that by the Federation of American Scientists and the National Resources Defense Council jointly by the United States how to deal with the Sino-US nuclear war may occur contents of the report to make the right response. The report predicts that the result is that the fate of the Sino-US nuclear war no matter which side can Wynn, and is likely to result in doom. Takai - Mitsuo urged Japan and other places who are advocating a nuclear arms race of people, should look at the recent disclosure of U.S. scientists on nuclear war a number of strategic missiles and objective analysis findings, and then decide whether you need to continue to advocate point of view. Commenting on the article, he asked to Taiwan, if China in 20 major cities in the United States fired 20 each chop, which carry 5 million tonnes of explosive equivalent Dongfeng -5 warhead intercontinental ballistic missiles, what would happen? Until recently, the prevailing view in Washington also believed that in the event of such a scale nuclear attack will lead to the nation's 400 million casualties, almost able to destroy most of the United States. To avoid this end of the world like what happened to the emergence of a consistent view is that the U.S. will have to implement pre-emptive nuclear strike against China and China strategy to eliminate a potential threat. However, such as Federation of American Scientists (Federation of American Scientists) and the National Resource Conservation Commission (National Resource Defense Council) such as research institutions have had a more sober minded researchers, who view the facts in 2006, made with the U.S. Nuclear hard-liners view a different view. Federation of American Scientists and the National Resources Defense Council study of several areas related to the mountains of China in Henan intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) silos, nuclear strikes several situations, and analyze affected. One situation is a direct attack on 60 locations, including 20 major missile silos and camouflaged silos blow. And in each location to carry the fight against all use a W76 class, equivalent to 10 million tons of multiple independently targetable warheads drilling ground. These missiles fired by the U.S. ballistic missile submarines. In order to ensure a nuclear strike to destroy the protective ability of these highly rigid silos, the United States will not adopt a similar air explosion of Hiroshima and Nagasaki atomic bomb, because that will greatly explosion and heat dissipation. Therefore, nuclear will be posted in the silo exploded near the entrance to result in the use of a huge impact, the physical destruction of them. In this case, from a nuclear attack, will release 60 of about 6 trillion tons of TNT explosive equivalent, will be on the ground to create a high degree of more than 12 kilometers, is rich in high-level radioactive dust and debris, consisting of a huge mushroom cloud. 24 hours after the explosion, mushroom cloud of the deadly impact will be driven by the westerly winds to the spread of the Nanjing and Shanghai. It will the residents of most cities of radiation, while polluted water, food and crops, causing incalculable damage. 6 trillion tons of equivalent impact created by nuclear explosions than the Hiroshima atomic bomb 360 times the power of bigger, it will cause at least 400 million deaths. Such large-scale destruction on the civilian population will go far beyond the military strength to destroy the enemy's war effort. This will lead to serious political damage, and damage to the United States there is a war capability will also losing the support of all States. On the other hand, China's strategic nuclear counterattack may choose to retaliate against U.S. military forces in East Asia, the use, including Dongfeng -3, -4 and Dongfeng Dongfeng missiles, including medium-range ballistic missiles -21, China Liaoning, Shandong, 2 ballistic missile base in the province is still intact. Report that if the United States to destroy China's entire nuclear counterattack capabilities, the U.S. military the only option is to have to spend almost all of nuclear weapons, which would be catastrophic harm the environment, and may even lead to the destruction of all mankind. Therefore, the Federation of American Scientists and the National Resources Defense Council recommends that United States leaders of the summing-up costs are staggering out of the vicious circle of the nuclear arms race and to promote nuclear disarmament talks with China. The proposal's appeal is worth the nuclear hard-liners to listen to. (Drop-hui / Bo Shi) (This article Source: Global Times)


Reducing US oil dependence decreases the risk of conflict
Collina 5 - Executive Director of 20-20 Vision
Tom Z. Collina, Executive Director of 20-20Vision; testimony in front of Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs United States Senate “Oil Dependence and U.S. Foreign Policy: Real Dangers, Realistic Solutions”. October 19, 2005 [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2005_hr/051020-collina.pdf]]
More conflicts in the Middle East America imports almost 60% of its oil today and, at this rate, we’ll import 70% by 2025. Where will that oil come from? Two-thirds of the world’s oil is in the Middle East, primarily in Saudi Arabia, Iran and Iraq. The United States has less than 3% of global oil. The Department of Energy predicts that North American oil imports from the Persian Gulf will double from 2001 to 2025.i Other oil suppliers, such as Venezuela, Russia, and West Africa, are also politically unstable and hold no significant long-term oil reserves compared to those in the Middle East. Bottom line: our economy and security are increasingly dependent on one of the most unstable regions on earth. Unless we change our ways, we will find ourselves even more at the mercy of Middle East oil and thus more likely to get involved in future conflicts. The greater our dependence on oil, the greater the pressure to protect and control that oil. The growing American dependence on imported oil is the primary driver of U.S. foreign and military policy today, particularly in the Middle East, and motivates an aggressive military policy now on display in Iraq. To help avoid similar wars in the future and to encourage a more cooperative, responsible, and multilateral foreign policy the United States must significantly reduce its oil use. Before the Iraq war started, Anthony H. Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies said: “Regardless of whether we say so publicly, we will go to war, because Saddam sits at the center of a region with more than 60 percent of all the world's oil reserves.” Unfortunately, he was right. In fact, the usof military power to protect the flow of oil has been a central tenet of U.S. foreign policy since 1945. That was the year that President Franklin D. Roosevelt promised King Abdul Aziz of Saudi Arabia that the United States would protect the kingdom in return for special access to Saudi oil—a promise that governs U.S. foreign policy today. This policy was formalized by President Jimmy Carter in 1980 when he announced that the secure flow of oil from the Persian Gulf was in “the vital interests of the United States of America” and that America would use “any means necessary, including military force” to protect those interests from outside forces. This doctrine was expanded by President Ronald Reagan in 1981 to cover internal threats, and was used by the first President Bush to justify the Gulf War of 1990-91, and provided a key, if unspoken rationale for the second President Bush’s invasion of Iraq in 2003.ii The Carter/Reagan Doctrine also led to the build up of U.S. forces in the Persian Gulf on a permanent basis and to the establishment of the Rapid Deployment Force and the U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM). The United States now spends over $50 Billion per year (in peacetime) to maintain our readiness to intervene in the Gulf.iii America has tried to address its oil vulnerability by using our military to protect supply routes and to prop up or install friendly regimes. But as Iraq shows the price is astronomical—$200 Billion and counting. Moreover, it doesn’t work—Iraq is now producing less oil than it did before the invasion. While the reasons behind the Bush administration’s decision to invade Iraq may be complex, can anyone doubt that we would not be there today if Iraq exported coffee instead of oil? It is time for a new approach. Americans are no longer willing to support U.S. misadventures in the Persian Gulf. Recent polls show that almost two-thirds of Americans think the Iraq war was not worth the price in terms of blood and treasure. Lt. Gen William Odom, director of the National Security Agency during President Reagan's second term, recently said: "The invasion of Iraq will turn out to be the greatest strategic disaster in U.S. history." The nation is understandably split about what to do now in Iraq, but there appears to be widespread agreement that America should not make the same mistake again—and we can take a giant step toward that goal by reducing our dependence on oil.


Natural gas reduces US oil dependence
Ganos 12 ([[http://blogs.forbes.com/toddganos/|Todd Ganos]], Contributor, “Breaking U.S. Dependence On Foreign Oil,” 1/3/12, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/toddganos/2012/01/03/breaking-u-s-dependence-on-foreign-oil/]]) GANGEEZY
We’ve heard the beating of the drum time and time again: “We must reduce our dependence on foreign oil.” It forces us into poor economic, political, diplomatic, and military choices. But, what are we really doing about it?¶ In this column, I’ve discussed a widely accepted concept called “peak oil”. It is a logistics model that has been able to predict the point in time at which the maximum rate of extraction occurs for a specific well, a field, a region, or the world, after which extraction quickly declines. Under this model, it appears that peak oil for the world might well occur this decade. While the extraction of oil might decline, energy consumption certainly won’t. So, energy consumers will turn to different sources.¶ Given a combination of factors – our nation’s infrastructure, domestic resources, technology, and environmental impact – it might be that natural gas is the natural choice. Of course, we would want to ultimately move to zero-emission sources of energy, but we’re not there yet . . . at least our infrastructure and technology are not there yet.¶ U.S. crude oil consumption is roughly 7 billion barrels per year, of which approximately 4.5 billion barrels is imported. Based on data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration, about 24 trillion cubic feet of natural gas per year would be needed to replace the 4.5 billion barrels per year we import.¶ The U.S. currently produces just under this amount each year. With an effective doubling of consumption of natural gas each year, an expansion of infrastructure would be needed. Such an expansion might take ten years to implement. But, it would be a shift from energy investment that we are already paying for outside the United States to energy investment inside the United States. This would likely have the effect of pulling jobs back into the U.S.¶ Various sources estimate that the U.S. has between 1.5 and 2.5 quadrillion cubic feet of natural gas reserves. If we were to assume its complete replacement of foreign oil, this translates to a 60 to 100-year supply. Tacking on the additional ten years for implementation, what might technology yield in the 2080 to 2120 timeframe? I posit that technology will yield a clean, green, cheap source of domestic energy that will once and for all put the issue to rest.¶ So, while natural gas certainly is not the final solution, it might well be the steppingstone that gets us there.


Natural gas development facilitates the transition towards other renewables
Ju 12 – Anne Ju (senior science writer for the Cornell Chronicle) July 17, 2012 “Study Proves Natural Gas Can Bridge the Gap to a Clean Energy Economy” [[http://oilprice.com/Energy/Natural-Gas/Study-Proves-Natural-Gas-Can-Bridge-the-Gap-to-a-Clean-Energy-Economy.html]]) GANGEEZY
Natural gas is a good transition step on the road to greener energy sources like wind, solar, and nuclear power, says a new study. Lawrence M. Cathles, [[http://www.news.cornell.edu/stories/July12/cathlesGas.html|Cornell University]] professor of earth and atmospheric sciences, says natural gas is a smart move in the battle against global climate change. Published in the most recent edition of the journal [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1029/2012GC004032|Geochemistry, Geophysics and Geosystems]], Cathles’ study reviews the most recent government and industry data on natural gas “leakage rates” during extraction, as well as recently developed climate models. He concludes that regardless of the time frame considered, substituting natural gas energy for all coal and some oil production provides about 40 percent of the global warming benefit that a complete switch to low-carbon sources would deliver. “From a greenhouse point of view, it would be better to replace coal electrical facilities with nuclear plants, wind farms, and solar panels, but replacing them with natural gas stations will be faster, cheaper, and achieve 40 percent of the low-carbon-fast benefit,” Cathles writes in the study. “Gas is a natural transition fuel that could represent the biggest stabilization wedge available to us.” Cathles’ study includes additional findings about expanding the use of natural gas as an energy source, as well as the climate impact of “unconventional” gas drilling methods, including hydraulic fracturing in shale formations. They include the following: • Although a more rapid transition to natural gas from coal and some oil produces a greater overall benefit for climate change, the 40 percent of low-carbon energy benefit remains no matter how quickly the transition is made, and no matter the effect of ocean modulation or other climate regulating forces. • Although some critics of natural gas as a transition fuel have cited leakage rates as high as 8 percent or more of total production during drilling—particularly hydraulic fracturing extraction—more recent industry data and a critical examination of Environmental Protection Agency data supports leakage rates closer to 1.5 percent for both conventional and hydrofractured wells. • Even at higher leakage rates, using natural gas as a transition to low-carbon energy sources is still a better policy than “business as usual” with coal and oil, due to the different rates of decay (and hence long-term global warming effect) of carbon dioxide released in greater amounts by burning coal and oil and any methane released during natural gas extraction. • Using natural gas as a transition fuel supports the push to low-carbon sources by providing the “surge capacity” when needed, or a buffer when solar and wind production wanes. “The most important message of the calculations reported here is that substituting natural gas for coal and oil is a significant way to reduce greenhouse forcing, regardless of how long the substitution takes,” Cathles writes. “A faster transition to low-carbon energy sources would decrease greenhouse warming further, but the substitution of natural gas for other fossil fuels is equally beneficial in percentage terms no matter how fast the transition.”



Expanding US LNG exports solves Chinese energy demands
Levi 12- the David M. Rubenstein senior fellow for energy and environment at the Council on Foreign Relations, a nonpartisan foreign-policy think tank and membership organization(Michael, “A strategy for U.S. Natural Gas Exports”, The Hamilton Project, June 2012, [[http://www.hamiltonproject.org/files/downloads_and_links/06_exports_levi.pdf]])
Asia has not been so fortunate, and the reasons for this are not entirely clear. Asian natural gas prices are still tied closely to crude oil prices, normally through politically involved negotiations. Asian buyers still have fewer options for large-scale imports than European buyers do—key buyers, including Japan and Korea, do not have access to pipeline imports—which reduces their relative power. In addition, at the same time that European customers were gaining new leverage in 2011, Japan, the largest LNG importer in Asia, was paralyzed by the disaster at its Fukushima nuclear power plant. As that accident led to widespread nuclear shutdowns, Japan massively increased its demand for LNG to meet critical electricity needs. Japan, desperate to avoid further economic harm, was not in a position to negotiate aggressively with natural gas suppliers.¶ Many analysts in both the United States and Asia have speculated that U.S. entry into the Asian LNG market as a major supplier (along with others) could help create the conditions for a move toward market pricing of natural gas, or at least to a lessening of individual producers’ market power and, hence, political influence. Predicting political influence is a near-impossible business, but to examine whether U.S. exports might help encourage such a transformation, it is useful to compare the potential magnitude of U.S. LNG deliveries to other important scales in the natural gas market. As of 2010, the world’s top five LNG exporters were Qatar (8.2 bcf/d), Indonesia (3.3 bcf/d), Malaysia (3.3 bcf/d), Australia (2.7 bcf/d), and Nigeria (2.6 bcf/d) (IGU 2010). The top supplier to Japan was Indonesia (2.0 bcf/d), and the top supplier to Korea was Qatar (1.1 bcf/d). The spot market accounted for slightly more than a fifth of traded LNG, totaling slightly less than seven billion cubic feet a day.¶ All of these figures will increase in the future. EIA projections are far from definitive, but they are instructive. World natural gas production is projected to increase by 26 percent over the next decade (EIA 2011). Korean imports are expected to rise from to 4.1 billion cubic feet a day, while Japanese imports are expected to hold fairly steady at their present level. Chinese imports, including pipeline gas, are expected to rise from a negligible amount to over nine billion cubic feet each day by the end of the decade, while daily Indian imports are expected to reach three billion cubic feet per day. ¶ These figures suggest that U.S. LNG exports could become influential if they increased to toward the higher end of the range discussed thus far in this paper, and if exports were priced off the U.S. benchmark. The United States could potentially assume a large market share in several pivotal markets, and perhaps be dominant in one or more. This would give consumers greater leverage in their negotiations with other suppliers. At a minimum, by diversifying the pricing of their imports, it would partly insulate LNG importers from oil market fluctuations.


===1AC Black Sea=== 

Contention two is the Black Sea -

Europe is increasing its natural gas dependence on Russia
Dohmen and Jung 5/18 ([[mailto:Frank_Dohmen@spiegel.de|Frank Dohmen]] and Alexander Jung, “Gazprom Hopes to Build Second Baltic Sea Pipeline, “ 5/18/12, [[http://www.spiegel.de/international/business/gazprom-eyeing-second-pipeline-as-nabucco-faces-failure-a-833501.html]]) GANGEEZY
Europe already buys about a quarter of its natural gas from Russia with Germany relying on the country for 35 percent of its needs. This makes Germany vulnerable.¶ So far, Moscow has consistently proven to be a reliable supplier. Officials at Gazprom say that a pipeline "is a delivery promise cast in steel," and they insist that no company is going to invest billions in a pipeline and then choose not to use it.¶ But with each additional cubic meter of gas, the concerns are growing that the Russians will use their natural resources as a means of applying pressure, and that natural gas will become a political weapon. "There is no national security without energy security," says European Energy Commissioner and Nabucco advocate Günther Oettinger. And Gazprom has wielded its immense power in the past -- by, for example, shutting off Ukraine's gas supply for several days in January 2006, cutting supplies to Europe in the process.

Increasing US LNG exports breaks European dependence on Russia
Ratner et al, 2012 specialist in energy policy, other authors include ***Paul Belkin, analyst in European affairs,** *Jim Nichol, specialist in Russian and Eurasian affairs, and ***Steven Woehrel, specialist in European Affairs (Michael, “Europe’s Energy Security: Options and Challenges to Natural Gas Supply Diversification,” Congressional Research Service, 3/13/12, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/R42405.pdf)
The 27 member-state European Union (EU) has been a growing natural gas consumer and importer for decades. However, as Europe’s natural gas production has declined in recent years, its dependence on imported natural gas has increased. This has left it more dependent as a whole on its primary supplier, Russia, which has shown some inclination to use its resources for political ends. Natural gas, unlike oil which is a global commodity, is a regional commodity with regional buyers and sellers exerting more influence. ¶ Over the past decade, some European officials have become increasingly concerned about the potential for cutoffs or curtailments of Russian natural gas supplies to Europe. Most Russian natural gas exports to Europe flow through Ukraine and Belarus. Fragile and sometimes hostile relations between Kyiv, Minsk, and Moscow have in the past resulted in interruptions in the flow of natural gas to parts of Europe, as happened in 2006 and 2009. Some countries in Eastern Europe, which are in some cases almost exclusively reliant on Russian gas imports, have been particularly susceptible to these fluctuations. ¶ Despite its growing dependence on Russian natural gas, Europe is well positioned geographically to benefit from recent changes in global natural gas development. Since the advent of shale gas in the United States, the world appears to be potentially awash in natural gas. A 2011 study commissioned by the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) showed that technically recoverable shale gas resources worldwide may exceed current global natural gas reserves.1Other key developments and possible alternatives to Russian natural gas are outlined below: ¶ Taken as a whole, North Africa could pose a credible alternative to Russian natural gas supplies. The change of regimes in Libya, in particular, and in Egypt as a result of the wave of regional unrest known as the “Arab Spring,” poses a potential opportunity to increase natural gas production and exports from these countries. Both Libya and Egypt have large natural gas reserves, but production and exports have been hampered by domestic policies. Algeria, the largest exporter of natural gas in North Africa and the third largest supplier to Europe behind Russia and Norway, may also hold large volumes of shale gas yet to be developed in addition to their substantial conventional reserves. ¶ Central Asia may hold the greatest potential for new natural gas supplies for Europe, but currently those supplies would have to transit Russia to arrive in the European market. The delays in developing a southern corridor natural gas pipeline route to Europe have forced Central Asian countries to look east instead of west to bypass Russia and open new markets.2¶ Liquefied natural gas (LNG) imports pose an additional alternative to Russian natural gas. In 2010, LNG comprised almost 20% of the EU’s natural gas imports and over 15% of its consumption. The EU has LNG import capacity to meet its peak winter demand for natural gas, but during most of the year the facilities are underutilized. Nevertheless, some countries are considering building additional LNG import terminals to diversify their sources of natural gas. In addition to LNG import terminals, the EU could benefit from increased natural gas storage facilities in order to manage their import capacity during non-peak periods, as well as more pipeline interconnections to move natural gas where it is needed. EU officials have identified both improvements as priorities and they are being pursued, but not without some difficulty.¶ The prospect of significant U.S. LNG exports may pose an opportunity for the United States to play a bigger role in European energy security and global natural gas markets. 3 Most of the proposed U.S. LNG export projects are located on the Gulf coast or east coast of the United States, making shipments, at least initially, more likely to go to Europe than Asia. Additionally, the U.S. natural gas market is one of the only markets in the world where natural gas is not priced against oil, giving it a cost advantage in most of Europe. Should future U.S. LNG contracts not include an oil-indexed formula, pressure would be added for other countries, including Russia, to follow suit. Russian companies, including state-controlled natural gas giant Gazprom, have adamantly defended oil-indexed natural gas prices.


Russia’s monopoly on natural gas threatens Eurasian security and pro-democracy efforts
Baran, 7 - senior fellow and director of the Center for Eurasian Policy at the Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C. (Zenyo, “ EU Energy Security: Time to End Russian Leverage,” THE WASHINGTON QUARTERLY AUTUMN 2007, [[http://ao.hudson.org/files/publications/07autumn_baran.pdf]])
The lack of reliable and sustainable European access to energy represents a clear threat to the continent’s security. Under the leadership of Putin, the Kremlin has pursued a strategy whereby Europe’s substantial dependence on Russian energy is leveraged to obtain economic and political gains. If this situation continues, the EU will find itself in further danger, as its dependence leaves it beholden to Russian interests. There simply is no readily available alternative to the supplies the EU receives from Russia, particularly natural gas. Unlike oil, gas is extremely difficult and costly to ship via tankers; pipelines are the preferred method of transportation. Thus, if a supplier refuses to provide gas or charges an unreasonable price, the consumer cannot quickly or easily turn to another source. The consumer state would have no choice but to accept the supplier’s conditions or go without natural gas, an option that is all but unacceptable for most.¶ The unjust manipulation or interruption of energy supplies is as much a security threat as military action is, especially since the EU relies on Russia for more than 30 percent of its oil imports and 50 percent of its natural gas imports. 1 This dependence is not distributed evenly. As one heads eastward, Russia’s share of the energy supply grows ever larger. No fewer than seven eastern European countries receive at least 90 percent of their crude oil imports from Russia, and six EU nations are entirely dependent on Russia for their natural gas imports.¶ The Ukrainian gas crisis in January 2006 catapulted energy security to the forefront of the EU agenda. On the very day it took over the presidency of the Group of Eight (G-8)—a presidency that had announced energy security as its key theme—Russia halted natural gas deliveries to Ukraine. Because the gas pipelines crossing Ukraine carry supplies destined for EU markets, this shutdown resulted in significant supply disruptions for several member states, raising awareness that dependence on Russia has increased Europe’s geopolitical vulnerability.¶ Several EU states have experienced the misfortune of Russian supply cuts directly. Disputes between Russia and the Baltic states have led to the halt of pipeline deliveries of oil multiple times. In January 2003, Russia ceased supplying oil via pipeline to Latvia’s Ventspils Nafta export facility. This embargo, which followed Riga’s unwillingness to sell the facility to a Russian energy company, continues to this day. In July 2006, Moscow shut down a pipeline supplying Lithuania’s Mazeikiu Nafta refinery, which is the largest company in Lithuania and one of the biggest oil refineries in central and eastern Europe. As with Ventspils Nafta, this shutdown came after a Russian company failed to obtain the energy infrastructure it coveted.¶ Moscow has further sought to increase Europe’s dependence on Russian energy supplies by acquiring significant stakes in the energy distribution companies and infrastructure of EU member states, typically through its proxy, Gazprom. This massive energy company—the world’s largest—has control over the Russian gas pipeline network and consequently handles all Russian and Central Asian exports, either directly or through wholly owned subsidiaries. Such a preponderance of power would be troubling enough if the company were transparent, privately owned, and played by the rules of the free market, but Gazprom is none of those things. It is majority state owned and has deep ties to the Russian government. Many of the company’s executive management and board members also occupy or previously occupied key positions within the Kremlin.¶ For many years, Gazprom has owned significant portions of energy companies throughout the former Soviet Union. It is the largest or second-largest shareholder in the gas utilities of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Recently, Gazprom has been expanding its influence even further into the domestic gas distribution networks of western Europe. In the past two years, Gazprom has signed deals with Eni (Italy), Gasunie (the Netherlands), BASF (Germany), E.ON Ruhrgas (Germany), and Gaz de France. Desperate for access to energy and the profits it brings, European companies are played against each other by the Kremlin in order to secure more advantageous conditions for Russia. If one company does not want to agree to Moscow’s terms, a competitor will gladly accept them, leaving the first company with nothing.¶ In addition to the economic disadvantages of such dependence, the broader foreign policy goals of EU states also suffer. Specifically, EU members limit their criticisms of Moscow, lest they be given a raw deal at the negotiating table. Russia’s increasingly tainted record on transparency, responsible governance, and human rights is thus allowed to stand unchallenged and unquestioned. Dependency also erodes EU support for key allies in Europe and Asia. Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, and Ukraine—all crucial energy producers or transit countries—have each been subject to intimidation by Moscow. Instead of standing up to this harassment, Europe’s dependence compels its leaders to look the other way.¶ Most disturbing of all is that this dependence even leads the EU to turn a blind eye when Moscow utilizes these tactics against fellow EU members. The July 2006 shutdown of the Lithuanian pipeline, for example, drew little protest outside of Poland and the Baltic states. Russia claimed that this cutoff was the result of technical difficulties yet refused all offers
from third parties to examine the damaged pipe or assist repairs in any way. Although this incident is suspicious enough on its own, it becomes a clear case of political manipulation given Russia’s status as a repeat offender.¶ Many times over the past decade, Moscow has utilized near-identical tactics in countries it considers to be its near abroad. It has repeatedly cut off energy supplies during a political dispute, smugly blamed technical difficulties for the problem, and eventually shifted supplies to another destination unless the victim acceded to the Kremlin’s demands. ¶ Despite this history and repeated pleas from President Valdas Adamkus, the response from most western European countries was rather muted during the Lithuanian shutdown. The countries of the West have never experienced these strong-arm tactics firsthand and fail to view it as anything more than an economic dispute. Moreover, they were too concerned that standing up for Lithuania would ruin their chances to get preferential access to Russian oil and gas resources. By design, the Russian strategy is driving a wedge between eastern and western Europe, exacerbating the challenges the EU faces in devising a common energy policy, as was seen during the dispute between Poland and Germany ahead of the June EU summit. This diplomatic row was ostensibly over Russia’s failure to remove its embargo on Polish meat products but more broadly involved the perceived reluctance of Berlin to stand up to Moscow on a whole host of issues, not the least of which was energy.¶ The EU’s inability to take Russia to task for its illiberal market actions threatens European energy security in another way. It decreases efficiency in an already inefficient Russian energy industry, raising costs for consumers. Russia’s increasingly state-owned energy industry is largely unregulated. Without competitive market forces, companies such as Gazprom have no reason to behave like commercially minded entities. The absence of market stimuli is having detrimental effects on Russian productivity. Between 1998 and 2005, output in Russia’s then-mostly privately owned oil sector rose by 50 percent. 2 During that same period, production in the gas sector (Gazprom) barely grew at all. Since 2004, when the Kremlin began its consolidation over the oil sector in earnest, Russian oil production has leveled off as well.¶ The lack of reliable and sustainable access to energy is a clear threat to European security. Due to the extremely close relationship between the energy industry and the Kremlin, Russia’s oil and gas companies can pursue strategies that make little economic sense but that serve the long-term interests of the Russian state, namely, ensuring European dependence on Russian energy supplies. For example, Russia’s undersea Nord Stream pipeline will cost at least three times more than a proposed overland route through Lithuania and Poland would have. Given the environmental sensitivity of the Baltic Sea, some industry insiders are predicting costs as high as $10 billion or even $15 billion.¶ By divorcing western Europe’s gas supply from eastern Europe’s, however, the undersea route grants Moscow the ability to manipulate the European energy market more effectively. Needless to say, the unnecessarily high cost of the pipeline’s construction will be passed on to European consumers. Many industry experts have expressed concern that corruption and inefficiency, coupled with Moscow’s refusal to allow significant foreign investment in the energy sector, will soon lead the Russian oil and gas industry to burn out.¶ Instead of developing new oil and gas fields or investing in its energy infrastructure, Russia has utilized windfall profits to pursue the aggressive policy of expansion and acquisition described above. Unless Moscow is able to secure additional gas supplies from fields in Central Asia, it may struggle to meet its commitments to Europe, which is why maintaining full control over Central Asia’s export routes is so critical for the Kremlin.¶ Engaging the Caspian Enshrined as the second of the three pillars of the EU, the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) states that the EU should seek to promote democracy, rule of law, and respect for human rights within its borders and abroad. Yet, dependence on Russian energy supplies undermines Europe’s efforts to foster the ideals of good governance, market transparency, and democracy both in Russia and in Russia’s neighbors. Although the establishment of these principles in energy suppliers is a worthy goal in its own right, doing so will also create a more stable environment for energy sector development, thereby improving European security. Diversifying oil and gas supplies by constructing pipelines directly from the Caucasus and Central Asia to Europe would not only decrease Russia’s influence on EU countries but would also loosen Moscow’s grip on Europe’s neighbors.¶ If the EU wishes to foster true reform within former Soviet states, it must offer them a non-Russian perspective, which can best be done through cooperation on joint energy projects. In the Caspian region, this strategy has been pursued with success by the United States. In the late 1990s, the United States pushed hard for the construction of several oil and gas pipelines that would carry Caspian energy westward without transiting Russia. It did so to break Russia’s monopoly on the region’s energy transportation system, thereby giving the Caspian countries greater economic and political independence from Moscow. Naturally, this proposal prompted strong objections and high pressure tactics by the Russian government. Determined support from the United States and from NATO ally Turkey was eventually successful in countering this Russian pressure. Two pipelines for oil and natural gas were eventually completed from the Azerbaijani capital of Baku across Georgia to Turkey. The Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) oil pipeline stretches from Baku all the way to the Turkish Mediterranean port of Ceyhan. ¶ The South Caucasus Pipeline (SCP) follows the same route as BTC but terminates in the central Turkish city of Erzurum.¶ The United States devoted a great deal of time and energy to make these routes a reality. The time has now come for the EU to take the lead in bringing neighboring states closer to the West through a concerted engagement effort. The BTC and
SCP pipelines are positive precedents. The construction of these pipelines has substantially decreased Moscow’s leverage over Azerbaijan and Georgia, allowing them to resist political and economic pressure from Russia. When Gazprom demanded a higher price for the gas it provided to Azerbaijan, Baku decided not to import any Russian gas. Later, when Transneft (Russia’s state-owned oil pipeline monopoly) refused to offer a market price for Azerbaijani oil, Baku decided not to export oil via Russian pipelines. Azerbaijan did not have these options prior to the construction of the two East-West pipelines.¶ The construction of these projects has also led to significant reforms in both countries. The international consortium behind these pipelines did not agree to the construction of either project until contracts assured the needed legal protection. Ongoing involvement with Western companies and gentle prodding from Western governments have prompted further political and market reform. Azerbaijan’s most recent parliamentary elections in November 2005, while far from perfect, were the country’s freest and fairest since independence. Georgia has been free to continue down the reform path it started during the Rose Revolution in 2003 and is expected to join NATO by the end of the decade. Years of positive interaction with the West have allowed Azerbaijan and Georgia to reorient themselves toward a future in European and Euro-Atlantic institutions.¶ Yet, this westward orientation is not guaranteed. In Azerbaijan, as in many states on the cusp of reform, there are a number of hard-liners within the government who are fiercely resisting these changes and would rather reach energy deals with Russia in order to obtain Moscow’s support to maintain the status quo. Moreover, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan are still l 137 almost completely dependent on Russian-controlled export pipelines, leaving them vulnerable not only to political manipulation but also to economic extortion. Until late 2006, Russia purchased natural gas from the Central Asian republics at a rate of about $45 to $65 per thousand cubic meters (tcm). It then sold that gas (and/or Russian-produced gas) to western European countries for around $230 per tcm. Even the tremendous distances that must be traveled cannot account for the increase. Per kilometer, this markup is far higher than that which occurs between Canadian supply hubs and distant American consumers. ¶ To be fair, part of this disparity arises because of the horrific inefficiency of Gazprom. The rest is simply a rent that Moscow is able to extract because of its near-monopoly power. This becomes blatantly obvious when one considers that Russia currently sells gas to Georgia for $230 per tcm, despite paying only $100 per tcm for gas purchased from nearby Turkmenistan. It is Tbilisi’s commitment to the West, not the market, that is determining the price of gas in Georgia.¶ Despite the danger of inaction, many in the EU are hesitant to engage in energy deals with countries such as Kazakhstan or Turkmenistan because of their rather poor record on human rights or rule of law. Although the EU’s intention is good, the strategy is not. Without incorporating the energy sector into its engagement strategy, the EU simply lacks the proper leverage to encourage these states to change. The EU is often perceived as admonishing its neighbors, calling for too much political and social reform too fast, and offering too little in return. If political reform were undertaken without the necessary improvements in economic, political, and physical infrastructure, governments would lose control of their states; and the dangers of terrorism, extremism, and drug trafﬁcking in Central Asia and the Caucasus would increase.


That Causes Eurasian instability
Asmus, 8 - Executive Director of the Transatlantic Center at the German Marshall Fund of the United States, in Brussels, From 1997 to 2000, he served as U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs (Ronald, “ Europe's Eastern Promise; Rethinking NATO and EU Enlargement,” Foreign Affairs. New York: Jan/Feb 2008. [[http://www.jstor.org.proxy.lib.umich.edu/stable/pdfplus/20020270.pdf?acceptTC=true]])
IN THE early 1990S, after the Iron Curtain lifted, Western leaders seized a historic opportunity to open the doors of NATO and the EuropeanUnion (EU)to post communist central and eastern Europe. By consolidating democracy and ensuring stability from the Baltics to the Black Sea, they redrew the map of Europe. As a result, the continent today is more peaceful, democratic, and free. This accomplishment was the result of a common U.S.-European grand strategy that was controversial and fiercely debated at the time. The goal was to build a post-Cold War Europe "whole, free, and at peace"; to renew the transatlantic alliance; and to reposition the United States and Europe to address new global challenges. But as successful as the strategy of enlargement has been, the world has changed dramatically since it was forged. The United States and Europe face new risks and opportunities on Europe's periphery and need to recast their strategic thinking accordingly for a new era. Current policy toward Europe's periphery is increasingly out of date, for three reasons. First, the West has changed. The 9/11 attacks pulled U.S. attention and resources away from Europe and toward the Middle East. The reservoir of transatlantic goodwill and political capital accumulated during the 1990S has evaporated in the sands of RONALD D. As MU s is Executive Director of the Transatlantic Center at the German Marshall Fund of the United States, in Brussels. From 1997 to 2000, he served as U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs. [95] ¶ Ronald D. Asmus Iraq. In Europe, enlargement fatigue has set in thanks to stumbling institutional reforms and the mounting expense of integrating new EU members. It was widely assumed that the western Balkan states (Albania and the former Yugoslav republics) would all eventuallyj oin the EU and NATO, but even that can no longer be taken for granted. Turkey's chances of gaining EU membership are fading. Indeed, the window of opportunity to expand the democratic world that opened with the end of the Cold War is now at risk of closing. Second, the East has changed. The challenge of the 1990S was to consolidate democracy in central and eastern Europe along a north south axis from the Baltics to the Black Sea. Today's even more difficult challenge is to stabilize the countries of Eurasia, the region where Europe and Asia meet, along a new axis extending eastward from the Balkans across the Black Sea region. The Wests policy to the southern Caucasus and including Turkey, toward Europe, Ukraine, Georgia, Armenia, and Azerbaijan toward Europe's Sandwiched between an unstable Middle periphery cannot East to the south and a hostile Russia to the north, these countries are the new flank of remain on cruise the Euro-Atlantic community. Old may still work in the Balkans, but countries have changed such as Georgia and Ukraine-let alone Moldova and Belarus, if and when the latter opens up to the outside world-are weaker, poorer, and more politically problematic than the central and eastern European countries NATO and the EU sought to integrate earlier. Their claim to be part of Europe is more tenuous, and the perceived Western imperative to help is less obvious. The policy tools developed for central and eastern Europe a decade ago are, accordingly, no longer as effective. Finally, Russia has changed. In the 1990S, it was a weak, quasi democratic state that wanted to become part of the West. Now, a more powerful, nationalist, and less democratic Russia is challenging the West. Moscow sees itself as an independent Eurasian power, offering its own authoritarian capitalist model of development as an alternative to democratic liberalism. It practices a form of mercantilist geo political hardball that many in Europe thought was gone for good. Nowhere is this more clear than in its policies toward Europe's [96] ¶ Europes Eastern Promise periphery, where it is seeking to halt or roll back democratic breakthroughs in places such as Georgia and Ukraine. Moscow's willingness to use its energy resources as a political weapon has made European countries reluctant to confront Russia over its antidemocratic behavior. Until the EU can liberalize its energy markets and diversify its supplies, Moscow will have the upper hand. In this new strategic environment, Western policy toward the nations on Europe's periphery cannot remain on cruise control as if nothing has changed. NATO and the EU need to articulate a new strategic rationale for expanding the democratic West and devise a new approach to dealing with Russia. There is another opportunity today to advance Western values and security and redraw the map of Europe and Eurasia once more. But new ideas will be necessary to seize it-and to reinvent the transatlantic alliance in the process. OUT WITH THE OLD THE GRAND strategy of democratic enlargement that lay behind the opening up of NATO and the EU early in the 1990S grew out of the twin imperatives of reuniting Europe following communism's collapse and reinventing the
transatlantic alliance for the post-Cold War era. The goal was to consolidate democracy across the eastern half of the continent by anchoring central and eastern European countries to the West. It reflected the vision of a peaceful Europe expanding its foreign policy horizons and sharing global leadership and responsibility with the United States. At the time, Washington concluded that the EU alone was too weak to lead the enlargement process. Thus NATO took the lead in bringing central and eastern Europe into the fold. NATO'S membership could more easily be expanded, and extending NATO'S security umbrella to countries in those regions was critical to the consolidation of democracy. NATO also contributed to reform by raising its requirements for new members, a "tough love" policy designed to reinforce positive transformation. As NATO played a key role in taking the security issue off the table and opening its doors to the East, the EU assumed most of the burden of transforming post-communist societies into liberal democratic ones. E.U. enlargement policy was an asymmetric negotiation. ¶ Candidate countries simply had to accede to the EU'S existing acquiscommunautaire the full range of its laws, regulations, and institutions. The newcomers had little say in anything but the timeline under which the EU'S requirements would be implemented. Nevertheless, it was this transformation that fundamentally tied these countries to the West and thus created enduring security on the continent. Great care was taken to ensure that countries not included in the initial round of enlargement would not be destabilized. The West did not want to repeat the mistake that U.S. Secretary of State Dean Acheson made in 1950, when he appeared Expanding the reach to sketch a new Western security perimeter and thereby invited the conclusion that of NATO and the EU countries on the other side of the line were once again does not of no interest to the West. Therefore, NATO and EU Policy sought to blur the lines between mean starting a new members, potential future members, and Cold War partners. In practice, this meant finding new ways to embrace and deepen cooperation with countries that did not seek membership or were not yet realistic candidates for it. NATO explicitly left open the possibility of further expansion down the road. The EU was more circumspect, but it, too, expanded its outreach to countries on Europe's periphery whose future stability and orientation it wanted to shape. The West's desire to mitigate any negative fallout was perhaps most visible in its handling of Russia. In different yet reinforcing ways, the Americans and the Europeans signaled their strategic desire to pull Russia toward the West in the hope that Moscow would eventually evolve into a partner and perhaps even a de facto ally. NATO and EU enlargement were accompanied by an unparalleled effort to engage Moscow and work for Russia's own democratic trans formation, while still taking what were seen as its legitimate interests into account. This strategy was not a new effort to contain Russia but an attempt to integrate it-albeit in a looser form and on a different timeline than that of its smaller western neighbors. And it was not merely rhetoric. NATO rethought its military strategy and force posture in order to underscore that it had no offensive intentions. Moreover, it offered to expand political and military cooperation and plan for future joint military operations with Russia. The EU set out its own far-reaching plans to deepen cooperation. The West took such steps despite uncertainty over where Russia was headed and despite the fear that Moscow would take advantage of these openings to paralyze Western institutions rather than cooperate with them. Looking back, Western policy achieved two of its goals-anchoring much of central and eastern Europe and preventing instability in those countries remaining outside NATO and the E u-and was partially successful in dealing with Russia. These successes were not inevitable, and their importance should not be underestimated. Had NATO and the EU not acted, Europe today would be a messier, less stable, and more inward-looking place. And Washington would have even fewer allies in dealing with crises beyond Europe, such as Afghanistan and Iraq. Today, it is only too easy to forget that a decade ago there were concerns that enlargement would create new and sharper divisions between those countries joining NATO and the EU and those remaining on the outside. It has done the opposite. The success of NATO and EU enlargement, and the inclusion of countries such as the Baltic states, set a positive precedent for the former Soviet republics. Following the Rose and Orange Revolutions, democratic leaders in Georgia and Ukraine became more serious about seeking to tie their countries to the West. After all, if the Baltic states could do it, why should they not dare to do the same? The results in Russia were mixed, however. On the one hand, the train wreck that was so frequently predicted by enlargement critics never happened. New arrangements for cooperation with NATO and the EU were set up, and a breakdown of relations with Moscow was avoided. But the West's broader hopes of establishing deeper relations with a more democratic Russia never materialized. Instead of becoming more democratic and cooperative, Moscow has become more authoritarian and adversarial. Hopes that the West and Russia could find common strategic ground after 9/11 have largely gone unfulfilled, and the two are even further apart now on issues such as Afghanistan, Iran, and Kosovo. The Orange and Rose Revolutions were interpreted in Moscow not as democratic breakthroughs but as threatening developments that needed to be challenged and reversed. Who or what is responsible for these trends is, of course, an issue of considerable dispute. Was it a lack of U.S. and European imagination and will that allowed Russia to drift in this anti-Western direction? Or was it the result of internal Russian dynamics over which the West had little, if any, influence? Did NATO and EU enlargement push Russia in the wrong direction, or was the West fortunate to act when it did given what has
followed? Enlargement has created more democratic stability on Russia's western border than at any time since Napoleon. Yet
today, the Kremlin's spin doctors are creating a new stab-in-the-back legend of how the West betrayed Moscow during the 1990s. The gap in historical narratives mirrors the increasingly tense relationship between the West and Russia. ALL QUIET ON THE EASTERN FRONT? IN LIGHT of these new circumstances in Russia, enlargement needs to be rethought from the ground up, starting with its strategic rationale. [1oo] FOREIGN AFFAIRS Volume87No.i ¶ Europe’s Eastern Promise After the accession of a band of countries from the Baltic states in the north to Bulgaria and Romania in the south, many in the West assumed that the enlargement project was almost complete, with the western Balkans constituting the last piece of unfinished business. They were surprised to suddenly find new countries from Eurasia, and specifically the wider Black Sea region, starting to knock on the doors of NATO and the EU-and unsure how to respond. In dealing with these new candidate countries, the West must stick to the values and diplomatic principles it laid down in the l990s, including the notion that countries are free to choose their alliances. But that alone is unlikely to be enough, because although these countries clearly consider themselves European, many Europeans do not feel the same historical or moral commitment to them or see a compelling strategic need to integrate them. Thus, in addition to moral and political arguments, the United States and Europe need to articulate a strong strategic rationale for anchoring them to the West. That argument is straight forward. The challenge of securing Europe's eastern border from the Baltics to the Black Sea has been replaced by the need to extend peace and stability along the southern rim of the Euro Atlantic community-from the Balkans across the Black Sea and further into Eurasia, Russia needs friends region that connects Europe, Russia, and the Middle East and involves core security and allies and the interests, including a critical energy corridor. United States and Working to consolidate democratic change and build stability in this area is as important Europe can and for Western security today as consolidating should be among them. ¶ Democracy in central and eastern Europe was in the 1990s. It is not only critical to expanding the democratic peace in Europe but also vital to repositioning the West vis-a-vis both Central Asia and the Middle East. This strategy presents an opportunity to redraw the strategic map of Europe and Eurasia in a way that enhances the security of countries on Europe's periphery as well as that of the United States and Europe. The United States and Europe also need to rethink what anchoring means in practice. In the 1990s, it meant pursuing membership in NATO and the EU roughly in parallel. Now the West needs to be more flexible and take a long-term view. The goal is to tie these countries as closely to the West as politics and interests on both sides allow. For some countries, this may mean eventual membership in both NATO and the EU; for others, it may mean membership only in NATO; and for the rest, it may mean membership in neither but simply much closer relations. Policy will have to be much more "ala carte than prix fixe. The link between NATO membership and EU membership should be relaxed, if not dropped. The EU has enough on its plate sustaining its commitments to the western Balkans and Turkey; anything beyond that is probably a nonstarter for the time being. NATO will once again have to take the lead in anchoring countries such as Georgia and others in the wider Black Sea region. The West must also rethink how it should engage and reach out to these countries. If membership is less plausible as a short-term option, then the quality of ties short of membership must be improved to compensate. Outreach must grow in importance and may increasingly become the centerpiece of U.S. and European strategy. At the moment, the fear of future enlargement is one factor actually holding allies back, with institutions afraid of taking even small steps down what some fear could be a slippery slope. Yet precisely because the countries in question are weaker and more endangered, NATO and the EU should actually be reaching out and engaging them earlier. They need the security umbrella and engagement of the West as much, if not more, than the countries of central and eastern Europe did. The way out of this dilemma is to consider membership a long-term goal and focus in the meantime on strengthening Western outreach and engagement. This means recasting policy tools to address the different needs of the countries that are less developed politically and economically. Tools such as NATO's" membership action plan" should be extended earlier and tied less closely to actual membership commitments, thus allowing these countries to benefit from guidance and engagement while downplaying the question of the end goal. At the same time, the EU needs to enhance its own tools, such as the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the European Neighborhood Policy, as well as reach out to these countries more directly by offering them political and economic support. When communism collapsed, NATO and the EU had little idea how to reach out to post-communist countries [102] ¶ Europe’s Eastern Promise and anchor them to the West. Bureaucrats in both institutions said it could not be done. But political will and strategic imagination prevailed, and fresh approaches were developed. Political will can do the same today. As for Russia, neither Washington nor Brussels wants a confrontation with Moscow at a time when they face daunting challenges beyond Europe. But this does not mean the West should abandon its belief that the spread of democracy along Russia's borders contributes to peace and stability just because the current authoritarian rulers in Moscow disagree. Nor should the West abandon its principles and succumb to the sphere-of-influence thinking currently emanating from Moscow. If the United States and Europe still hope that democracy will eventually take root in Russia, they must recognize that consolidating a pro-Western, democratic Ukraine would indirectly encourage democratization in Russia. Of course, antidemocratic forces in Russia will oppose such a move. After all, Moscow only acquiesced in previous rounds of NATO and EU enlargement because it concluded that the United States and Europe were determined to carry them out and that its efforts to oppose the West would be futile. Western unity on issues such as the future of Ukraine is therefore of the utmost importance. Still, holding true to NATO'S and the EU'S core principles and expanding these organizations' reach does not mean starting a new Cold War. The West and Moscow should look for other areas in which their interests are more aligned, such as expanding trade and investment or controlling nuclear proliferation and building a new arms control regime. The key question is whether Russia--when faced with a unified West-will start to look for common ground. As strong as Russia may appear at the moment, it remains a country with real long-terms structural weaknesses and problems. It, too, needs friends and allies, and the United States and Europe should be among them. UNCERTAIN FUTURES THREE VERY different scenarios for the future of Western policy toward Europe's periphery reveal just how high the stakes are in this region. In the best-case scenario, the United States and Europe would regroup under the next U.S. president and launch a new era of transatlantic operation by overcoming differences on Iraq, avoiding disagreements over Iran, and stabilizing Afghanistan. This renaissance would include a new and ambitious democratic-enlargement strategy, and the results would be significant. Securing independence for Kosovo without turning Serbia against the West would facilitate the successful integration of the western Balkans into NATO and the EU. In Turkey, the AKP-led government would continue democratic reforms, bringing the country closer to EU accession. Georgia and Ukraine would continue to move closer to the West as well. That prospect would help create positive pressure for democratic change in Azerbaijan and encourage Armenia's reorientation toward the West. By 2012, a reunified West would have begun to build an arc of democratic stability eastward into Eurasia and especially the wider Black Sea region. Realizing that its real adversaries lie elsewhere, Russia would eventually have no choice but to reassess its policy and seek a new rapprochement with the West. A less optimistic scenario is stagnation. In this case, the United States and Europe would regain some political momentum after 2008 but fail to achieve any significant democratic breakthroughs. A new U.S. administration would manage to stabilize and then extricate itself from Iraq, but transatlantic tensions over Iran and other Middle Eastern issues would persist. Kosovo would achieve independence, but in a manner that leaves Serbia alienated and unable to find its way back onto the path toward EU accession. In the western Balkans, only Croatia would remain on track for both EU and NATO membership. Turkey's prospects for joining the EU would fade, and reforms in Georgia and Ukraine would stall. Azerbaijan would remain an autocratic pro-Western ally increasingly vulnerable to growing radicalization from within. By 2012, the West would have patched up relations across the Atlantic but without breakthroughs in the Balkans or Turkey-let alone in Ukraine or the wider Black Sea region. All of this would lead to a more competitive relationship with Russia, resulting in stalemate and a new chill in relations with Moscow. In the worst-case scenario, rather than the West consolidating new democratic breakthroughs, Russia would succeed in a strategy [104] ¶ Europe' Eastern Promise of rollback. The United States and Europe would not achieve a meaningful rapprochement, and they would fail to consolidate democracy in the western Balkans. Kosovo would become independent, but without agreement from all sides. This would launch Serbia on a new nationalist trajectory, bringing further instability to the region. U.S. failure in Iraq would lead to partition, estranging Turkey and prompting Ankara to invade northern Iraq and further loosen its ties to the West. This, in turn, would badly damage Turkey's already strained relations with both Washington and Brussels. Ukraine would drift back to autocracy, and Georgia, the one liberal democratic experiment in the Black Sea region, would lose reform momentum and teeter toward failure. Last November's declaration of a state of emergency in Tbilisi was a reminder of how fragile and vulnerable this experiment is. Using its energy supplies and influence, Russia would emerge as an authoritarian capitalist alternative to the West, attracting autocratic leaders throughout Europe and Eurasia. Rather than a renaissance of the transatlantic alliance, the result would be a retreat of democracy and a further splintering of the democratic West. As these scenarios make clear, the western Balkans, Georgia, Ukraine, and the wider Black Sea region are less stable and more at risk today than central and eastern Europe were a decade ago. And the stakes are high. A world in which Ukraine has successfully anchored itself to the West would be very different from one in which it has failed to do so. A world in which Georgia's success has sparked democratic progress in the region and helped stabilize the southern flank of the Euro-Atlantic community would be a much safer one than a world in which Georgia has become an authoritarian state in Russia's sphere of influence. And a world in which the democratic West is ascendant would be very different from one in which an autocratic, nationalist Russia is on the rise.


That results in Nuclear War
Mcdermott 11 - specializes in Russian and Central Asian defense and security issues and is a Senior Fellow in Eurasian Military Studies, The Jamestown Foundation, Washington DC, Senior International Research Fellow for the Foreign Military Studies Office (FMSO), Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, and Affiliated Senior Analyst, Danish Institute for International Studies, Copenhagen. McDermott is on the editorial board of Central Asia and the Caucasus and the scientific board of the Journal of Power Institutions in Post-Soviet Societies. He recently wrote The Reform of Russia’s Conventional Armed Forces: Problems, Challenges and Policy Implications (Roger, “General Makarov Highlights the “Risk” of Nuclear Conflict”, 12/6/11, The Jamestown Foundation, [[http://www.jamestown.org/details/?tx_bzdstaffdirectory_pi1%5BshowUid%5D=140&tx_bzdstaffdirectory_pi1%5BbackPid%5D=60&no_cache=1]])
In the current election season the Russian media has speculated that the Defense Minister Anatoliy Serdyukov may be replaced, possibly by Dmitry Rogozin, Russia’s Ambassador to NATO, which masks deeper anxiety about the future direction of the Armed Forces. The latest rumors also partly reflect uncertainty surrounding how the switch in the ruling tandem may reshuffle the pack in the various ministries, as well as concern about managing complex processes in Russian defense planning. On November 17, Russia’s Chief of the General Staff, Army-General Nikolai Makarov, offered widely reported comments on the potential for nuclear conflict erupting close to the country’s borders. His key observation was controversial, based on estimating that the potential for armed conflict along the entire Russian periphery had grown dramatically over the past twenty years (Profil, December 1; Moskovskiy Komsomolets, November 28; Interfax, November 17). During his speech to the Defense Ministry’s Public Council on the progress and challenges facing the effort to reform and modernize Russia’s conventional Armed Forces, Makarov linked the potential for local or regional conflict to escalate into large-scale warfare “possibly even with nuclear weapons.” Many Russian commentators were bewildered by this seemingly “alarmist” perspective. However, they appear to have misconstrued the general’s intention, since he was actually discussing conflict escalation (Interfax, ITAR-TASS, November 17; Moskovskiy Komsomolets, Krasnaya Zvezda, November 18). Makarov’s remarks, particularly in relation to the possible use of nuclear weapons in war, were quickly misinterpreted. Three specific aspects of the context in which Russia’s most senior military officer addressed the issue of a potential risk of nuclear conflict may serve to necessitate wider dialogue about the dangers of escalation. There is little in his actual assertion about the role of nuclear weapons in Russian security policy that would suggest Moscow has revised this; in fact, Makarov stated that this policy is outlined in the 2010 Military Doctrine, though he understandably made no mention of its classified addendum on nuclear issues (Kommersant, November 18). Russian media coverage was largely dismissive of Makarov’s observations, focusing on the idea that he may have represented the country as being surrounded by enemies. According to Kommersant, claiming to have seen the materials used during his presentation, armed confrontation with the West could occur partly based on the “anti-Russian policy” pursued by the Baltic States and Georgia, which may equally undermine Moscow’s future relations with NATO. Military conflict may erupt in Central Asia, caused by instability in Afghanistan or Pakistan; or western intervention against a nuclear Iran or North Korea; energy competition in the Arctic or foreign inspired “color revolutions” similar to the Arab Spring and the creation of a European Ballistic Missile Defense (BMD) system that could undermine Russia’s strategic nuclear deterrence also featured in this assessment of the strategic environment (Kommersant, November 18). Since the reform of Russia’s conventional Armed Forces began in late 2008, Makarov has consistently promoted adopting network-centric capabilities to facilitate the transformation of the military and develop modern approaches to warfare. Keen to displace traditional Russian approaches to warfare, and harness military assets in a fully integrated network, Makarov possibly more than any senior Russian officer appreciates that the means and methods of modern warfare have changed and are continuing to change (Zavtra, November 23; Interfax, November 17). The contours of this evolving and unpredictable strategic environment, with the distinctions between war and peace often blurred, interface precisely in the general’s expression of concern about nuclear conflict: highlighting the risk of escalation. However, such potential escalation is linked to the reduced time involved in other actors deciding to intervene in a local crisis as well as the presence of network-centric approaches among western militaries and being developed by China and Russia. From Moscow’s perspective, NATO “out of area operations” from Kosovo to Libya blur the traditional red lines in escalation; further complicated if any power wishes to pursue intervention in complex cases such as Syria. Potential escalation resulting from local conflict, following a series of unpredictable second and third order consequences, makes Makarov’s comments seem more understandable; it is not so much a portrayal of
Russia surrounded by “enemies,” as a recognition that, with weak conventional Armed Forces, in certain crises Moscow may have few options at its disposal (Interfax, November 17). There is also the added complication of a possibly messy aftermath of the US and NATO drawdown from Afghanistan and signs that the Russian General Staff takes Central Asian security much more seriously in this regard. The General Staff cannot know whether the threat environment in the region may suddenly change. Makarov knows the rather limited conventional military power Russia currently possesses, which may compel early nuclear first use likely involving sub-strategic weapons, in an effort to “de-escalate” an escalating conflict close to Russia’s borders. Moscow no longer primarily fears a theoretical threat of facing large armies on its western or eastern strategic axes; instead the information-era reality is that smaller-scale intervention in areas vital to its strategic interests may bring the country face-to-face with a network-centric adversary capable of rapidly exploiting its conventional weaknesses. As Russia plays catch-up in this technological and revolutionary shift in modern warfare capabilities, the age-old problem confronts the General Staff: the fastest to act is the victor (See EDM, December 1). Consequently, Makarov once again criticized the domestic defense industry for offering the military inferior quality weapons systems. Yet, as speed and harnessing C4ISR (Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance) become increasingly decisive factors in modern warfare, the risks for conflict escalation demand careful attention – especially when the disparate actors possess varied capabilities. Unlike other nuclear powers, Russia has to consider the proximity of several nuclear actors close to its borders. In the coming decade and beyond, Moscow may pursue dialogue with other nuclear actors on the nature of conflict escalation and de-escalation. However, with a multitude of variables at play ranging from BMD, US Global Strike capabilities, uncertainty surrounding the “reset” and the emergence of an expanded nuclear club, and several potential sources of instability and conflict, any dialogue must consider escalation in its widest possible context. Makarov’s message during his presentation, as far as the nuclear issue is concerned, was therefore a much tougher bone than the old dogs of the Cold War would wish to chew on.

Independently, Central Asian War goes nuclear
Starr, 1 [S. Frederick, Chairman of Central Asia-Caucasus Institute @ Nitze School of Advanced Int’l. Studies @ Johns Hopkins U., Federal Document Clearing House Congressional Testimony, “CENTRAL ASIAN NATIONS AND THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM”, 12-13, L/N]
There exists a fundamental misunderstanding about the relationship of Central Asian states (and Russia, for that matter) to the war on terrorism. We hear about their "cooperation with the US," as if they are doing us a favor that should be rewarded. Nothing could be further from the truth. For a decade, the Central Asian states have faced the threat of Islamic radicalism, terrorism, and drug trafficking, with which the first two are closely linked. All of the Central Asian states have identified these issues as their main security threat, and Afghanistan as the locus of that threat. So has Russia, which has used the issue to justify the stationing of troops in four of the five countries of the region. To address this threat, Central Asian governments have arrested countless suspects, abrogating the civil rights of many who are doubtless innocent. All of the countries have resorted to the same primitive policies, the differences among them being only of degree, not of kind. Some commentators have argued that these measures are largely responsible for the growth of terrorism in the first place. There is some truth in this, but we must be careful in levying this charge. When we demand that Messers, Musharraf, Arafat, or Mubarrak crack down hard on jihhadist groups, Palestinian terrorists, or Muslim brotherhoods, are we not asking them to do exactly what we criticize Central Asian governments for doing? Americans bridle when our critics abroad blame September 11 on the US' actions, yet we come close to doing the same thing with respect to the Central Asians. Both the Central Asians and the Russians, who have claimed a special role in the region, have been notably unsuccessful in their campaigns against terrorism. But now the situation is changing, thanks to the United States. We are risking American soldiers' lives and expending billions of our citizens' resources to address a threat that hangs over their countries as much as ours. The fact that we have our own interests at heart in no way qualifies this truth. Early signs of progress in the war on terrorism already exceed what has been accomplished locally in a decade. And so let us cease all talk of some payment owed Central Asians (or Russians) for their cooperation. If anything, it is they who should thank us. However, this does not mean that US actions are without risk to the Central Asian states. Quite the contrary. For a decade they have faced not only the dangers arising from Afghanistan but also the constant threat posed by certain groups in Russia, notably the military and security forces, who are not yet reconciled to the loss of empire. This "imperial hangover" is not unique to Russia. France exhibited the same tendencies in Algeria, the Spanish in Cuba and Chile, and the British when they burned the White House in 1812. This imperial hangover will eventually pass, but for the time being it remains a threat. It means that the Central Asians, after cooperating with the US, will inevitably face redoubled pressure from Russia if we leave abruptly and without attending to the long-term security needs of the region. That we have looked kindly into Mr. Putin's soul does not change this reality. The Central Asians face a similar danger with respect to our efforts in Afghanistan. Some Americans hold that we should destroy Bin Laden, Al Queda, and the Taliban and then leave the post-war stabilization and reconstruction to others. Such a course runs the danger of condemning all Central Asia to further waves of instability from the South. But in the next round it will not only be Russia that is tempted to throw its weight around in the region but possibly China, or even Iran or India. All have as much right to claim Central Asia as their "backyard" as Russia has had until now. Central Asia may be a distant region but when these nuclear powers begin bumping heads there it will create terrifying threats to world peace that the U.S. cannot ignore.

Uniquely, tension over natural gas risks full scale escalation of war
Hargreaves 8 ([[mailto:steve.hargreaves@turner.com|Steve Hargreaves]], CNNMoney.com staff writer, “Tensions rise in energy rich Central Asia,” April 8, 2008, [[http://money.cnn.com/2008/04/07/news/international/asia_gas/index.htm]]) GANGEEZY
NEW YORK (CNNMoney.com) -- It's got all the makings of an international geopolitical thriller: World powers move their armies into a violent, remote, and politically fragile region brimming with valuable oil and natural gas resources; except it's not fiction.¶ Central Asia is the scene of this powerplay. Europe is maneuvering to satisfy its energy needs while it cuts greenhouse gas emissions. China and India need the region's reserves to quench their booming economies' thirst for fuel. Meanwhile, the U.S. is challenging Russia's traditional control of the region's gas reserves - which are large - but not large enough for everyone.¶ Tense jockeying is underway - complete with corporate intrigue, diplomacy, and guns - as the United States, the European Union, Russia, China and India all vie for the right to build huge pipelines to get the oil and massive natural gas reserves out of the remote nations of Central Asia.¶ The latest twist in this power play came earlier this year, when Russia secured a long-term contract to buy a big chunk of natural gas from Tajikistan, which has one of the largest reserves in the world. But undaunted, other nations' plans for more pipelines - and military bases - proceed. "The increasing Asian interest suggests the region is open for other deals," said Katherine Hardin, senior director of Russian and Caspian energy at Cambridge Energy Research Associates.¶ Quenching a growing thirst for energy¶ The amount of natural gas at stake is enormous. If Russian and Iranian reserves are taken into account, the region holds around half of the world's gas, according to Melanie Kenderdine, an associate director at Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Energy Initiative and a former aide in the administration of President Clinton.¶ The gas is going to thirsty but gas-starved regions. Europe and Asia hold just 11% of the worldwide reserves, said Kenderdine.¶ For the Europeans, the gas is essential if the continent is to meet its obligations to cut greenhouse gasses under the Kyoto treaty.¶ Europe will likely get the gas either way, but what it wants to avoid is too much dependence on Russia, which currently controls the only gas pipeline out of Central Asia. Russia has been known to cut off gas supplies when confronted with a political fight.¶ To bypass Russia, the Europeans are pushing for a a pipeline running west out out the region - under the Caspian Sea, across Turkey, and into Europe via the Black Sea. The Americans support this plan, largely as a means of reducing Russian influence over its allies in Europe.¶ Russia, meanwhile, needs the Central Asian gas to satisfy the contracts it has with Europe without having to develop its own remote gas fields, which would cost a lot more money. Russia wants the current lone gas line in the region, which runs north from Turkemenistan through Kazakhstan and into Russia, to remain the only option.¶ "Their goal is to buy everybody's else's gas cheap, sell it, and take the money," said Amy Myers Jaffe, a fellow in energy studies at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University.¶ Russia has lots of gas - the most in the world - but most is in Arctic or sub- Arctic areas that are expensive to drill, said Christopher Ruppel, an energy analyst at Execution, LLC, a broker and research firm for institutional investors like hedge and mutual funds.¶ It's so cold, Ruppel said special metals are needed to withstand the Arctic winters, while summertime turns the entire area into a giant bog. He said one town in a gas-rich northern region even had a Russian name that translated loosely as "The Godforsaken Place Where You Don't Ever Want To Go."¶ So Russia will likely remain fixated on Central Asia's energy for the foreseeable future.¶ The relatively new players in the energy game - China and India - want to get in on the action to help fuel their fast growing economies. While being cut off from Central Asia's energy would hardly be a death blow for either country, the opportunity in the region presents a chance to get cleaner burning natural gas and flex some of their newfound geopolitical muscle.¶ China wants at least one pipeline to run east out of the region through Kazakhstan, while India is considering bringing in gas via pipelines from Iran or Pakistan.¶ The U.S. is in a diplomatic bind, eager to isolate Iran and Russia but wary of upsetting its European allies.¶ "Maybe it's better for these countries to sell their gas to China," said Jaffe. "But the problem is, you upset some guy in the State Department whose job it is to get the gas to Europe. I'm not even sure the U.S. understands why we're there."¶ A risky neighborhood¶ Although that may be the case, the U.S. is definitely there. Including Iraq and Turkey, the country has at least 11 military bases in the region, far more than anyone else, according to MIT's Kenderdine. In Central Asia itself, the U.S. has one base in Kyrgyzstan, while NATO maintains at least three others in the region.¶ While conspiracy theories abound, analysts say those bases are there mainly to support the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan - pipeline protection is a distant secondary goal.¶ But with the new U.S. bases, other countries are getting in on the act. Russia, a long time presence in the neighborhood, is proposing a new base in Tajikistan, while China is considering one in Uzbekistan and is rumored to want one in Iran, said Kenderdine.

===1AC Plan Text=== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in Liquefied Natural Gas transportation infrastructure in the United States.

===1AC Solvency v1=== 
Contention three is solvency –

Lack of exports will make natural gas drilling in the US ineffective
Maykuth 9/29 (ANDREW MAYKUTH / THE PHILADELPHIA Insider, “With success, natural gas industry eyes exports,” 9/29/12, [[http://businessmirror.com.ph/home/global-eye/33430-with-success-natural-gas-industry-eyes-exports]]) GANGEEZY
PHILADELPHIA—The natural-gas industry is drowning in its own success.¶ Drilling companies are extracting so much natural gas from formations like Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale that they want to export the fuel overseas, provoking opposition from some who say that American gas should stay at home.¶ At the Shale Gas Insight conference in Philadelphia last week, Jack Williams, president of XTO Energy, used the podium to promote the idea of exporting liquefied natural-gas ships.¶ “Just as we do with exports of grain, cars and other American products, by exporting LNG, we can create economic value that would not have existed otherwise,” Williams told the audience.¶ XTO has a lot to gain from exports. It is a subsidiary of Exxon Mobil Corp., the nation’s largest producer of natural gas, whose price has plummeted in the last few years because the shale-gas revolution is producing more gas than US markets can absorb.¶ Exxon Mobil in August submitted an application to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to export liquefied natural gas, or LNG, from a terminal it co-owns in Sabine Pass, Texas. It’s one of seven facilities nationwide seeking federal approval to export.¶ Producers embrace the idea of exporting natural gas, which would increase demand, boost prices and spur more production. Exports would mean more American jobs producing gas. The income would also improve America’s balance of trade.¶ But proposals to build more LNG export terminals are controversial.¶ Some American chemical producers fear that shipping LNG to foreign consumers would make gas scarce here, just as the industry is undergoing a revival, thanks to abundant supplies of natural gas, a principal raw material.¶ American Public Gas Association, the trade group for utilities like Philadelphia Gas Works, has said that exports would produce “predictable and disastrous” results for household consumers.¶ Environmental groups like the Sierra Club have opposed new export terminals because they would induce more drilling, causing more environmental impact.¶ Others appeal to patriotic sentiments to block exports. T. Boone Pickens, who wants to replace imports of crude oil from unfriendly nations, thinks it would be folly to export natural gas.¶ The Energy Department is studying the economic effects of expanding LNG exports, but Reuters reported last week that the Obama administration delayed the release of the report until after the election.¶ In an interview last week, Williams said there was plenty of natural-gas supply to meet domestic demand and to export.¶ “The question is, do we want those additional jobs?” said Williams, a career employee with Exxon Mobil, a company famous for its long-term vision and executives who don’t make rash statements.¶ “The important thing is, we can do it all,” he said. “It’s not an either-or. We can support plenty of gas for American consumers in terms of electricity generation or heating our homes or our manufacturing sector, for niche applications in the transportation sector, and for export. We can do all that.”¶ Williams’s belief is based on confidence that the nation’s oil and gas reserves have grown dramatically because of the shale revolution. The combination of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling has opened up huge reserves in “unconventional” formations previously thought unproductive.¶ “We have a hundred years of natural-gas supply in this country, and that’s a snapshot today,” said Williams, who took over XTO after Exxon bought the shale producer in 2009 in what amounted to a $31-billion endorsement of unconventional drilling.¶ But Williams says the current reserve estimates just may prove to be low. He has an enduring faith in the industry’s ability to devise new solutions.¶ “This whole phenomenon has been unlocked by technology, creativity and innovation,” he said. “And who’s to say that’s going to stop?”¶ “Those estimates of oil and gas, they’ve moved all over the place over the years. As technology develops, there’s no telling how high those numbers will go.”

Natural gas exports are net beneficial for the United States
Levi 8/15 ([[http://www.cfr.org/experts/energy-climate-oil-security/michael-a-levi/b11890|Michael A. Levi]] is a senior fellow for energy and the environment at the Council on Foreign Relations, “The Case for Natural Gas Exports,” 8/15/12, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/16/opinion/the-case-for-natural-gas-exports.html]]) GANGEEZY
Critics pose a contrary set of arguments. They fear that demand for gas exports might encourage hydraulic fracturing, threatening water supplies, and they worry that siphoning off domestic gas for export will raise costs for domestic consumers and disadvantage American manufacturers that benefit from low-cost fuel.¶ There are also national security concerns. Some see an opportunity to frustrate the two biggest holders of natural gas reserves: Russia and Iran. Critics would prefer that natural gas be used to replace oil in American automobiles.¶ [[http://www.hamiltonproject.org/papers/a_strategy_for_u.s._natural_gas_exports/|In a recent study]] I estimated that American firms could make up to $3 billion per year by producing and exporting liquefied natural gas. It’s true that gas-dependent industries would have to pay more because of higher gas prices, but those costs would be substantially smaller than the benefits. But there are bigger stakes involved than just money. A decision to constrain natural-gas exports could have dangerous reverberations for American trade.¶ For example, the United States has filed with the World Trade Organization a challenge to Chinese restrictions on exports of so-called rare earth minerals, which are crucial for new technolo gies like wind turbines, missiles and smartphones. If Washington hypocritically limits gas exports, it might as well write the Chinese brief.¶ There are other problems with the opponents’ arguments. To truly keep America’s natural gas within our borders would require restrictions on exports to our big trade partners Canada and Mexico, and that would put the North American Free Trade Agreement at risk. Forswearing exports would also eliminate a valuable tool for American trade negotiators: countries like Japan want privileged access to United States gas, and American negotiators can seek concessions in return.¶ At the same time, exports would likely reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. Moreover, the small price increases that would result from allowing exports would have at most a marginal impact on the use of natural gas as fuel for cars and trucks. Blocking exports wouldn’t push natural gas into automobiles — it would mostly keep it in the ground, because there would be less incentive to extract it.¶ But the critics are right to point out that exporting natural gas could increase environmental risks to communities where natural gas is extracted. Even so, a recent report from the International Energy Agency makes clear that inexpensive steps could substantially mitigate those dangers. It will take years before any export terminals are up and running — in the meantime, producers and regulators should strengthen safeguards so that gas is extracted safely.¶ Exports would also raise natural gas prices a bit, adding as much as $50 to the annual electric bills for the poorest American households by the end of the decade. But the federal Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program could help shield the most vulnerable as long as its financing is protected.¶ The United States, which has imported natural gas for many years, has long benefited from a relatively open system for global trade in energy. Allowing natural-gas exports while protecting the environment and low-income consumers is the right way to go.


LNG Terminals would boost natural gas production and exports
Helman 6/13 ([[http://blogs.forbes.com/christopherhelman/|Christopher Helman]], Forbes Staff, “The U.S. Has A Natural Gas Glut; Why Exporting It As LNG Is A Good Idea,” 6/13/12, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/energysource/2012/06/13/the-u-s-has-a-natural-gas-glut-why-exporting-it-as-lng-is-a-good-idea/]]) GANGEEZY
The emergence of shale gas has caused natural gas prices in North America to drop to the lowest levels seen in decades. Shale gas resources elsewhere in the world, however, have not yet been developed to the same extent—creating a sustainable arbitrage opportunity. Given the potential profitability of liquefying surplus North American gas production and exporting it as Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG), a number of companies are now willing to develop capital-intensive natural gas export projects.¶ LNG exports will help to provide better balance between supply and demand in the market, dampening price volatility in North America, and providing circumstances in which industrial gas investments and feedstock natural gas purchases can be made with greater confidence in long-term natural gas pricing.¶ As recently as 2007, North America was looking at a significant gas shortage and more than sixty LNGimport projects were proposed. Just five years later, the implementation of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing has led North America to a sizable excess of gas supply. The latest figures from the U.S. [[http://www.forbes.com/energy/|Energy]] Information Agency (EIA) indicate that natural gas supply could exceed demand by 2016, enabling North America to become a net exporter of LNG.¶ The rapid increase in natural gas production has had a substantial impact on gas pricing in North America. While gas prices in North America are not directly correlated to oil prices, up until late 2008, natural gas prices generally matched oil price trends. Since the increase in shale gas production was first identified in Navigant’s groundbreakingNorth American Natural Gas Supply Assessment in 2008, natural gas prices have headed downwards from $5.00 per million British thermal units (mmBtu) to approximately $2.50 per mmBtu in May 2012. However, although natural gas pricesdecreased, crude oil prices increased during the same period. While the EIA indicates that long term North American natural gas prices will rise to $4.00 to $6.00 per mmBtu, natural gas will continue to trade at a sizable discount to oil on an energy equivalent basis.¶ Unlike crude oil, there is not yet a large tradable global market for natural gas and consequently, prices vary across the world///. In Asia, prices for major LNG importers closely correlate to oil prices, and LNG is currently priced over $17.00 per mmBtu. In Europe, prices are lower at $12.00 to $14.00 per mmBtu.¶ For North American producers to benefit from higher global prices they must successfully construct costly and complex LNG facilities and related infrastructure costing billions of dollars.¶ Assuming a long-term North American natural gas price of $4.00 to $6.00 per mmBtu, liquefaction and shipping costs will add approximately $4.00 per mmBtu. This offers an attractive $3.00 to $5.00 per mmBtu arbitrage opportunity to the $13.00 per mmBtu price currently achievable at Europe’s LNG terminals. The real prize, however, would be realizing LNG exports to Asia. While shipping costs would be higher (due to the much greater distance to Asia than to Europe), the current Asian LNG price of $17 per mmBtu provides the prospect of a much greater arbitrage opportunity.¶ What are the risks to the current export strategy?¶ Shale gas production has increased rapidly, offsetting a steady decline in conventional gas production across North America. While more natural gas can be produced from what is largely agreed upon as an “abundant gas resource,” the pace of future development is subject to factors such as changing environmental legislation. Competition for the Asian markets, notably from the large number of Australian-based LNG projects in development, is expected to be fierce. LNG project costs are on the increase, due in part to the considerable number of projects seeking to be developed in a short period of time. Finally, shale gas resources are not exclusive to North America. Europe and Asia both have significant shale gas potential; however, the pace at which shale gas resources will be developed in these regions has yet to become clear.¶ Overall, North American natural gas exports are a very positive development for both North American and global natural gas markets. In a market of surplus supply, access to large export markets will serve to balance supply and demand, thereby dampening price volatility, increasing natural gas prices moderately, and, over the long-term, providing a sustainable natural gas market in North America—the stability of supply and price needed by North American industrial markets.¶ In this sense, it would seem that industrial-community opposition to exports based on perception of price impact is short-sighted. Meanwhile, for natural gas consumers in Asia and Europe, North American export projects will provide another competitive supply option. In the long run, companies with experience, fortitude, capital, and a healthy risk appetite may find themselves in the right place and at the right time to capitalize on North American LNG export projects.

A large supply of gas means price volatility won’t be major
Ebinger, Senior fellow and Director of the Energy Security Initiative at Brookings, ‘12
(Charles, “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for US Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” 5-2-12, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/events/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports/20120502_lng_exports]])
There is also a lot of concern surrounding the impact of LNG exports on gas market volatility, with some opponents concerned that the U.S. natural gas market might return to the volatility experienced during the 2000s. ¶ This chart demonstrates the historic volatility of natural gas prices. The light and dark blue lines represent the price of natural gas through the 1980s and 1990s, respectively. The black line represents the price of natural gas during the decade of the early 2000s and shows considerably greater volatility. This was because demand for natural gas was increasing in a tightening domestic natural gas market. Today, the market is oversupplied, and volatility has responded in kind. ¶ The extent to which volatility occurs as a result of exports, we recognize, is still underresearched, but we found that the technical constraints of natural gas exports will limit the impact of price volatility. This is a very important point. ¶ LNG exports are naturally capped by the capacity limitations of LNG export facilities. In other words, if company X builds a facility to export 1 bcf a day of natural gas, it cannot export more than 1 bcf from that facility without sizeable additional financial investments. ¶ This means that unlike oil trade, in which barrel of oil theoretically can be exported to the highest bidder on the global market, there is a fixed amount of LNG that can be exported at any given moment. ¶ This puts an upper bound on demand for natural gas from exporters. As long as LNG exporters have contracted out nearly all of their capacity, which is probably required if they're going to get financing to build these facilities, then export-induced volatility, we believe, will be extremely limited.


=Topicality= 

only two t cards we have read - against every violation.

==2AC t-energy== 

**Heres evidence**
**Green World Investor 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Natural Gas and LNG Supply and Demand in India – List of Companies and Gas Market Review,” 5 Jul, 2011, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.greenworldinvestor.com/2011/07/05/natural-gas-and-lng-supply-and-demand-in-india-list-of-companies-and-gas-market-review/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) GANGEEZY</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gujarat State Petronet Ltd. (GSPL) – It is a Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation (GSPCGSPC Group company is a pioneer in developing </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">energy transportation infrastructure </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and connecting natural gas supply sources </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">including LNG terminals</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to growing markets. GSPL is first Pipeline Company in India operating on open access basis and is a pure transmission network.The transmission network of the company envisages development of systematic and seamless pipeline network across Gujarat connecting various suppliers and users.</span>

**c/I – TI refers to specific subsectors including commercial ports**
**American Jobs Act, 11** (112 H. Doc. 53, legislation submitted to the House by Obama, 9/13, lexis)//DH
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(9) Infrastructure project.--</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(A) In general.--The term ``eligibleinfrastructure project'' means any non-Federaltransportation, water, or energy infrastructureproject, or an aggregation of suchinfrastructure projects, as provided in thisAct.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(B) Transportation infrastructureproject.--The</span>__term ``transportation infrastructure__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">project'' </span>__means the construction, alteration, or repair, including the facilitation of intermodal transit, of the following subsectors__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">:</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(i) </span>__Highway or road__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(ii) </span>__Bridge__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(iii) </span>__Mass transit__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(iv) </span>__Inland waterways__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(v) </span>__Commercial ports__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(vi) </span>__Airports__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(vii) </span>__Air traffic control systems__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(viii) </span>__Passenger rail, including high-speed rail__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(ix) </span>__Freight rail__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> systems.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (C) </span>__Water infrastructure project__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.--The term ``water infrastructure project'' means the construction, consolidation, alteration, or repair of the following subsectors:</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (i) Waterwaste treatment facility.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (ii) Storm water management system.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (iii) Dam.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (iv) Solid waste disposal facility.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (v) Drinking water treatment facility.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (vi) Levee.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (vii) Open space management system.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (D) </span>__Energy infrastructure project__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.--The term ``energy infrastructure project'' means the construction, alteration, or repair of the following subsectors:</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (i) Pollution reduced energy generation.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (ii) Transmission and distribution.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (iii) Storage.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (iv) Energy efficiency enhancements for buildings, including public and commercial buildings.</span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We are a port that means we meet their interpretation</span>==== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Global Energy Division No Date</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> [ “ Liquefaction and Regasification Terminals.” [[@http://www.walterenergy.info/page-gas/Liquefication_and_Regasification_Terminals.html]]] H. Kenner</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Liquefied natural gas is used to transport.......</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">in the following countries</span>