= = 
[[toc]]
=Round Two vs. College Prep GY--Mayport= 
==Ptx DA (Immigration Reform)== 

Immigration reform will pass --- it’s a top priority
**Foley and Stein**, **1/2**/2013 (Elise and Sam, Obama’s Immigration Reform To Begin This Month, The Huffington Post, p. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/02/obama-immigration-reform_n_2398507.html)
//Despite a bruising fiscal cliff battle//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that managed to set the stage ..... very much on whether Speaker [John] Boehner wants to do it or not," Lofgren said.</span>

Plan drains Presidential capital - Even once-popular transportation issues now hurt the White House
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Freemark 12 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum</span>/)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the ..... </span>likely consists of<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> either continued extensions of the current law or </span>a <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">bipartisan</span> bargain that fails to do much more than replicate<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>existing law,<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.</span>

Capital is key --- it bridges support from both parties
//D//allas //M//orning //N//ews, **1/2**/2012 (Editorial: Actions must match Obama’s immigration pledge, p. http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The president’s words</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to NBC’s David Gregory </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">are only that — .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> That’s something we should get done.” President Barack </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama, in an interview on Meet the Press Sunday</span>

Immigration reform expands skilled labor --- spurs relations and economic growth in China and India.
//L//os //A//ngeles **Times**, 11/9/**2012** (Other countries eagerly await U.S. immigration reform, p. http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/world_now/2012/11/us-immigration-reform-eagerly-awaited-by-source-countries.html)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">"</span>C<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">omprehensive </span>i<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">mmigration </span>r<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">eform </span>will see //expansion .....//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> from their expats with the possibility of brain drain, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> I think </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">they</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> still </span>see the immigration opportunity as a //bigger plus// //than not//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">," he said</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


**U.S-China relations key to global warming**
**Oxnam; 2009, Was President of The Asia Society**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Robert. President of The Asia Society for over a decade (1981-92). The Asia Society, America’s leading public education institution on all aspects of the Asia/Pacific region, grew rapidly under his direction to encompass corporate, contemporary, and cultural programs concerning over 30 Asian countries. Prior to his presidency, he served as the Society’s Vice President and Washington Center Director (1979-81) and as China Council Director (1975-81). Most recently, he served on the Asia policy advisory team for the Obama presidential campaign. Liu Xuecheng. Senior Fellow and Executive Vice President of the Center for China-U.S. Relations Studies at the China Institute of International Studies. He is a member of several expert groups on China and Asia, including the China National Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific; ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) Experts/Eminent Persons; the Asia Cooperation Dialogue High-Level Study Group; and the China-U.S. People’s Friendship Association (council member) February 13. “The Pivotal Relationship: How Obama Should Engage China.” The East West Institute.[[http://www.ewi.info/pivotal-relationship-how-obama-should-engage-china]] accessed: 7/13/11//AG]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Seeking a “Green Relationship” No cluster of issues clouds global concerns and Asian anxieties more than environmental degradation/global warming</span>__. China and the United States now have the dubious distinction of being the .....__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">All of this would amount to a peaceful revolution in Sino-American relations, with truly earth-shaking consequences.</span>

Global warming leads to extinction and destroys ports and infrastructure
Oliver <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tickell</span>, Climate Researcher, 8/11/20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">08</span>, On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction, The Guardian, Proquest
<span style="font-size: 8px;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told the Guardian last week. ..... Many scientists warn that this historical event </span>may be analogous to the present: the warming<span style="font-size: 8px;">caused by human emissions</span>could propel us towards a<span style="font-size: 8px;">similar</span>hothouse Earth.

==Flattop CP== 
Text: The United States federal government should build and operate a fleet of flattop aircraft carriers to replace current aircraft carrier operations.

Supercarriers are obsolete—spreading the fleet into a number of small flattops solves the aff
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Axe 11</span>(David, an independent military correspondent based in South Carolina. He has reported from Iraq, Afghanistan, East Timor, Lebanon, Somalia, Chad and other conflict zones, “Are Aircraft Carriers Slowly Becoming Obsolete?”,[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2011/06/are-aircraft-carriers-slowly-becoming-obsolete/]], Hemanth)
For seven decades, they’ve been the ultimate symbol of .....<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> planes</span>. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Carriers don’t need to embark as many fighters, or launch them as often. That’s why a smaller carrier is possible</span>, according to Hendrix.

==Security K--2NR== 
The aff rests on a flawed epistemology—their solvency and advantages are constructed
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Peterson 2009</span> (Gordon, Capt. Gordon I. Peterson, U.S. Navy (Ret.) has served as the military legislative assistant for Senator Jim Webb of Virginia since January 2007. He is responsible for liaison to the Senate Armed Services Committee and oversight of military issues relating to all branches of the U.S. armed forces, the senior editor of Sea Power magazine since 1998, “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida: A Critical Assessment”, [[http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf]], Hemanth)

Issue 1: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">There is no indication the Navy conducted a formal intelligence-basedThreat/survivability .....</span> Norfolk and NAVSTA Mayport that guided theNavy's selection of its preferred homeporting alternative.

Reject the affirmative—Only rejection the logic of security allows us to be emancipated from this ideology and develop a better politics. We don’t need to reform or replace security, only to return the gift of the state and deny its biopolitics.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Neocleous 8</span> (Mark Neocleous, professor of critique of political economy at Brunei University. “Critique of Security” pages 185-186)

The only way out<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, </span>is<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> perhaps </span>to ..... but bracketing it out and handing it to the state; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.143 </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>




==Whale DA== 
Mayport dredging harms whales and manatees
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Peterson 9</span> (Gordon, Capt. Gordon I. Peterson, U.S. Navy (Ret.) has served as the military legislative assistant for Senator Jim Webb of Virginia since January 2007. He is responsible for liaison to the Senate Armed Services Committee and oversight of military issues relating to all branches of the U.S. armed forces, the senior editor of Sea Power magazine since 1998, “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida: A Critical Assessment”, [[http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf]], Hemanth)
Issue 2: <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The Navy 's proposal to homeport a nuclear-powered ..... which could increase should the Navy homeport a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier at Mayport</span>.

They’re a keystone species
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Zimmer et al 2007</span> (Richard, Ryan Ferrer, Professors of Biology at UCLA, “Neuroecology, Chemical Defense, and the Keystone Species Concept”, [[http://www.biolbull.org/content/213/3/208.full]], Hemanth)

Consumption of STX-laden zooplankton or their incapacitated .....<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> effects throughout entire planktonic communities</span>(Carpenter et al., 1985; Myers and Worm, 2003; Bruno and O'Connor, 2005).


Spills over to cascading biodiversity loss
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">McKinney 2003</span> (Michael, Director of Environmental Studies, University of Texas, PHD from Yale, [[http://books.google.com/books?id=NJUanyPkh0AC&pg=PA274&lpg=PA274&dq=manatees+%22keystone+species%22&source=bl&ots=rB1vju6y6v&sig=isIAuB81-ZM_Hv4PAMp2EKt4lH8&hl=en&sa=X&ei=kaX7T_GoEYiorQHfrZ2LCQ&ved=0CGgQ6AEwCA#v=onepage&q=manatees%20%22keystone%20species%22&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=NJUanyPkh0AC&pg=PA274&lpg=PA274&dq=manatees+%22keystone+species%22&source=bl&ots=rB1vju6y6v&sig=isIAuB81-ZM_Hv4PAMp2EKt4lH8&hl=en&sa=X&ei=kaX7T_GoEYiorQHfrZ2LCQ&ved=0CGgQ6AEwCA#v=onepage&q=manatees%20%22keystone%20species%22&f=false]], Hemanth)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Are All Species Equally Important</span>? With so many species //..... have cascading effects on many species, even causing secondary extinctions//. Many therefore argue that //saving keystone species should be a priority.//

Environment collapse Increases risk of extinction
Major David N. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Diner</span> , JAG – US Army, MILITARY LAW REVIEW, Winter <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">1994</span>, http://www.stormingmedia.us/14/1456/A145654.html
By causing widespread <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">extinctions</span>, humans <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">have artificially simplified many ecosystems</span>//......// one by one, the rivets from an aircraft's wings, mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.


=Round Three vs. UC Lab FG--Space Ports= 

==Ptx DA (Immigration Reform)== 

Expanding space exploration is perceived as controversial new spending -- guarantees backlash.
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Handberg 11</span><span style="color: #000000;">- Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, </span>[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]])
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">The US space program remained focused, not on duplicating Apollo, but on achieving __.....__</span>__<span style="color: #000000;"> to come by even when the economy recovers and deficits are under control.</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> The home run approach has run its course at least for a time; now the small ball approach becomes your mantra.</span>


Reform is key to U.S. competitiveness
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bush et al 09</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> – co-chairmen and director of a Council on Foreign Relations-sponsored Independent Task Force on U.S. Immigration Policy (7/21/09, Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and former White House Chief of Staff Thomas F. McLarty and Edward Alden, “Nation needs comprehensive, flexible immigration reform,” http://www.ajc.com/opinion/nation-needs-comprehensive-flexible-97393.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Our immigration system has been broken for too long, and the costs of that failure are growing.</span><span class="TitleChar">..... students and providing a faster track to permanent residency and citizenship. </span>


Competiveness key to economy and hegemony
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Segal, 04</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> – Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Adam, Foreign Affairs, “Is America Losing Its Edge?” November / December 2004, http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20041101facomment83601/adam-segal/is-america-losing-its-edge.html)</span>
<span class="TitleChar">The</span>//U//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>//S//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates' </span><span class="TitleChar">global primacy </span>//depends in large part//<span class="TitleChar"> on its ability to develop .....</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> But this won't be easy; </span><span class="TitleChar">to keep its privileged position in the world, the</span>//U//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>//S//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span><span class="TitleChar">must get better at fostering technological entrepreneurship at home.</span>


Economic decline causes war and miscalculation
Royal 10 — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and JurgenBrauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span>economic decline may increase the .....<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>


==T--Space== 

A. Interpretation- TI includes, aviation, but not aerospace
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kahn ‘6</span>(Ely, Director for Cybersecurity Policy at the National Security Staff – White House, and Roger Shoemaker, “Transportation Sector Specific Plan”, Chemical Security Summit, 6-28, [[http://www.ppt2txt.com/r/f892b8c5/]])
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">The Transportation Sector is a vast, far-reaching</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, complex and diverse </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">..... Pipeline Systems</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">: Oil- 177,000 miles; 623 billion ton-miles; Natural Gas- 1.3 million miles of pipeline </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Rail</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">: 193,000 miles of track; 1.4 million freight cars, 1.4 trillion revenue ton-miles; 8 Class 1 and 552 additional firms</span>

B. Violation- <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Aerospace is not Aviation</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Vogt ’12</span>(Crystal, MS in Journalism – Boston University and BA in English – University of California, Santa Barbara, “The Difference Between the Aviation Industry and the Aerospace Industry”, Houston Chronicle, http://smallbusiness.chron.com/difference-between-aviation-industry-aerospace-industry-26208.html)
<span style="font-size: 5.33333px;">Though there is some overlap </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">between </span><span style="font-size: 5.33333px;">the</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> aviation and aerospace </span><span style="font-size: 5.33333px;">industries, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">there are </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">key differences</span>//.....satellites and spacecraft. Aviation engineers focus more on aircraft operation, commercial or military aircraft design and air traffic management.


==Hetero K== 

**The politics of space are profoundly gendered – the discourse of exploration, development, and colonization reproduce heteronormative hierarchies and ensure the continuation of patriarchy in space.**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Griffin 9</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-75.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This chapter is about sex, but not the sex that people already have clarity about. </span>..... //techno-strategic and astro-political discourse has been able to (re)produce outer space as a heterosexualized, masculinized realm//.


**Reinforcement of the heteronormative power structure creates systematic oppression through violent resistance towards the LGBT community.**
**Luthra**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 20</span>**04**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Aman. Department of Geography at Syracuse University. “Interrupting Heteronormativity” (Un)Straightening the Syracuse University Landscape Page 45-54. http://www.syr.edu/gradschool/pdf/resourcebooksvideos/Heteronormativity.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Three years later, in October 2000, </span>__antigay chalkings____on the quad read: “We’re mad .....__ __institutionalize and privilege particular social relations within the community.__


**Alt: Reject the Aff’s oppressive discourse creating a safe space for discursive resistanceto Heteronormativity. We must break the silence.**
**Knox 6**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Sher Knox. Exploring Heterosexual Hegemony in Health and Social Services: Critical Que(e)ries. 2006. University of Victoria, Victoria, Canada. http://www.uvic.ca/hsd/assets/docs/publications/variegations/vol-3/knox.pdf)</span>

__One of the effects of “the homosexual” acquiring a history was the ......__ __work together to forge space for marginalized identities despite the institutional practices that silence and isolate.__

==SciDip CP== 

Text: The National Science and Technology Council should reestablish a committee on international science and engineering to coordinate the activities of the Department of State, the United States Agency for International Development and prepare a composite budget including all non-classified science, engineering and technology activities sponsored by the United States in foreign countries. The United States federal government should offer to negotiate a Code of Conduct for space to the People’s Republic of China.

The counterplan solves for international S&E efforts.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Strauss et al 08</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jon Strauss is the interim dean of engineering at Texas Tech University, chairman of the National Science Board Task Force, February 2008, International Science and Engineering Partnerships: A Priority for U.S. Foreign Policy and Our Nation’s Innovation Enterprise, http://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2008/nsb084/nsb084_3.pdf)</span>
<span class="TitleChar">No single U.S. agency is responsible for coordinating or supporting .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> governments to establish coordinated programs across international boundaries</span>.

S&E partnerships solve science diplomacy.
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Strauss et al 08</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Jon Strauss is the interim dean of engineering at Texas Tech University, chairman of the National Science Board Task Force, February 2008, International Science and Engineering Partnerships: A Priority for U.S. Foreign Policy and Our Nation’s Innovation Enterprise, http://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2008/nsb084/nsb084_3.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As previously discussed, </span><span class="TitleChar">there are tremendous possible benefits .... endeavors.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> International S&E partnerships should therefore be a high priority of the U.S. Government</span>.


=Round Six vs. Bishop Guertin DI--Critical Airports= 

==Ptx DA== 

The TSA was recently slashed – proves they’re unpopular
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hill 12</span> (“House to advance spending bills that cut TSA, boost veterans programs”, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/floor-action/house/229467-house-to-advance-spending-bills-that-cut-tsa-boost-veterans-programs]], 5/24/12)
The House<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> next week </span>is likely to advance<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> three 2013 </span>spending bills, including one that chops more than $200 million from the<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Transportation Security Administration (</span>TSA<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">), and another that gives a significant boost to veterans programs.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The House Rules Committee has set a Wednesday meeting to approve rules for the three bills, which means the House could consider the rules by Thursday and perhaps start work on one or more of them.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> One of these, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations act, would spend $39.1 billion on the Department of Homeland Security, which represents a cut of $393.5 million, a 1 percent reduction from 2012 levels. </span>More than half of that cut can be found in a $198 million reduction to TSA<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">'s passenger and screening operations program, which screens airline passengers around the country.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> A report accompanying the legislation, H.R. 5855, says the bill does not take into account a pay raise for TSA workers, and would require 75 behavior detection officers to be let go.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Work on this bill comes just after a Senate committee approved its own Homeland Security bill that increases security fees for passengers from $2.50 to $5, which drew sharp opposition from airlines.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations act is by far the biggest bill, spending $146.4 billion in 2013. That's $10.8 billion more than current funding levels, and mostly reflects a 10 percent increase in funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs. "The recommendation reflects the Committee's continued commitment to our servicemembers and veterans and to their families," House members said in their report for the bill, H.R. 5854.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The third bill is the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations act, H.R. 5325. That bill spends $32.1 billion, $87.5 million more than last year.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Within that bill, $26 billion is reserved for the Department of Energy, $345 million more than current year funding. But the bill cuts funding for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Department of the Interior, and an environmental cleanup fund.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The House Rules Committee is expected to approve one rule for all of these bills, plus H.R. 5743, the Intelligence Authorization act, although the rule will allow for separate consideration of each bill.</span>


Illegal immigration denies the most basic freedoms and the resulting exploitation, humiliation, rape, and violence destroy their sense of self and will to live – the victims become psychologically shattered
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hopper and Hidalgo 6</span>(Elizabeth, Ph.D psychologist at the Trauma Center in Boston, Jose, program director of Project REACH at the Trauma Center in Boston, INVISIBLE CHAINS: PSYCHOLOGICAL COERCION OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING VICTIMS, Intercultural Human Rights Law Review, 1 Intercultural Hum. Rts. L. Rev. 185, 2006, l/n)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">During the course of trafficking, the identity of victims and their sense of self are often impacted. In some situations, </span>.... as people and their ability to trust others, as their natural survival responses slowly break down, leaving them physically, emotionally, and spiritually shattered<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. n81</span>

==FW== 


They incentivize a disconnect from topic literature and open up an infinity of philosophical speculation. It is hard for their opponents to be prepared to debate, which hurts education and leads to unfair competition. Such <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Limits are key to productive discourse</span>
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Shively ‘2K</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Ruth Lesl, Professor of Politics at Texas A&M, “//Partisan Politics and Political Theory”//, p. 181-2)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This means, first, that they must recognize the role of agreement in political contest, .... what that idea is and how one might go about intelligibly contesting it. In other words, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">contestation rests on </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">some </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">basic agreement </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">or harmony.</span>



Embracing anti-politics turns their project and cedes politics to the right.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Boggs ’97</span>(CARL BOGGS – Professor and Ph.D. Political Science, National University, Los Angeles -- Theory and Society 26: 741-780)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The false sense of empowerment that comes with such mesmerizing impulses is accompanied by a .....</span><span class="underline"> state would likely become</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> what Hobbes anticipated: </span><span class="underline">the embodiment of</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> those universal, collec- tive</span><span class="underline">interests that had vanished from civil society.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">75 </span>
( ) Moving away from anti-politics is vital to check extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Small ‘6 </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">(Jonathan, former Americorps VISTA for the Human Services Coalition,“Moving Forward,” //The Journal for Civic Commitment//, Spring, http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.jsp)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">What will be the challenges of the new millennium? And how should we equip young people to face these challenges? ..... we are stalled. Service learning may be our best chance to jumpstart our democracy. In the rest of this paper, we will look at the beginning stages of a project that seeks to do just that.</span>


==Speaking for Others K== 

Politicizing those in poverty is wrong—the affirmative acts under the guise of political empowerment butinherently ends up utilizingdescriptions of poverty to accomplish their own development goals—this is an act of commodification and oppression.
Linda Martín <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Alcoff</span>, Department of Philosophy at SyracuseUniversity.<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1992, </span>Cultural Critique Winter 1991-92, “The Problem of Speaking For Others,” pp. 5-32
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Feminist discourse is not the only site in which the problem of speaking for ..... solution to the problem of speaking for others can be found by simply restricting the practice to speaking for groups of which one is a member.</span>


The affirmative is a perfect erasure of the other; they craft an image of the other in terms of their own systems of knowledge. This image inevitably overwhelms the other and denies them any sort of individual subjectivity.
Linda <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Alcoff</span>, Professor of Philosophy, Women's Studies and Political Science, Director of Women’s Studies, Syracuse University, <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1995</span>, “The Problem of Speaking for Others,” http://www.alcoff.com/content/speaothers.html.
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">This is partly the case because of what has been called the "crisis of representation." For</span><span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">in</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> ..... free of material structures would be false and ideological, but on the other hand, if we do not acknowledge the activity of choice and the experience of individual doubt, we are denying a reality of our experiential lives.9</span>

The erasure of the other constitutes a form of spiritual genocide which represents the destruction of human dignity – it outweighs the aff.
Patricia <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Williams</span>, Associate Professor of Law, The City University of New York Law School at Queens College, September <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1987</span> University of Miami Law Review, 42 U. Miami L. Rev. 127
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> There are certain societies that define the limits of life and death very differently than our own. For example, </span><span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">.....</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> all races </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">and ages. </span><span class="Emphasis2">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">We need to eradicate its numbing pathology before it wipes out what precious little humanity we have left.</span>**</span>

Discourses of top-down reform that speak for others are trapped in an oppressive hierarchy of power. Don’t cast your ballot for the affirmative project of speaking for others. Instead use it to sap the power from their discourse to allow the others to speak for themselves.
Michel <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Foucaultand</span> Gilles <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Deleuze</span>, <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1972</span> Libcom.org, “Intellectuals and Power: A Conversation Between Michel Foucault and Gilles Deleuze,” http://libcom.org/library/intellectuals-power-a-conversation-between-michel-foucault-and-gilles-deleuze
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">FOUCAULT: It seems to me that the political involvement of the intellectual was traditionally the product of two ..... easily understand them. How do we explain this? Isn't it because, in a general way, the penal system is the form in which power is most obviously seen as power?</span>


==Supreme Court CP== 

**Text: Theo and I advocate that the United States Supreme Course should grant a write of certiorari for the next available test case and rule that the //Whren v. United States// decision is unconstitutional on the grounds that it violates the Equal Protection Clause and due process rights of all U.S. citizens.**

**Overturning Whren is uniquely key to solve racial profiling – it is the lynchpin case that legalizes race as a pre text to discriminate against people of color**
**Johnson, 2010 (Kevin, Dean UC Davis Law School, Georgetown Law Review, http://georgetown.lawreviewnetwork.com/files/pdf/98-4/Johnson.PDF)**

It may seem surprising to most readers, but **__the use of .....__** of racial proﬁling so prevalent in modern Americansocial life.