= = 
[[toc]]
=Round Two vs. Dowling GW--Alaskan Ports= 

==Elections DA== 

Obama will win – multiple electoral college models prove
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Dickinson 10-29 </span>(Matthew Dickinson is a professor of political science at Middlebury College. He taught previously at Harvard University, where he also received his Ph.D., working under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt. Dickinson is the author of Bitter Harvest: FDR, Presidential Power, and the Growth of the Presidential Branch (Cambridge University Press), co-editor of Guardian of the Presidency: The Legacy of Richard E. Neustadt (Brookings Institution Press) and has published numerous articles on national governing institutions, including Congress, the bureaucracy, the presidency, presidential decision making, and presidential advisers. “Different Forecast, Same Result: More Political Science Models.” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2012/10/29/different-forecast-same-result-more-political-science-models/)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Politico’s Dylan Byers created a minor dust-up in the ..... </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">they still estimate that Obama’s win probability is more than 86%.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Here are the current state-by-state projections:</span>


Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular—Americans unwilling to pay
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Alden 12</span> (Edward, Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6-14-12, CFR, http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]

__Americans understood this once upon a time, .....__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that would funnel private investor (not taxpayer) money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.</span>

Romney election would destroy US-China relations which are key to warming and the global economy
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Traub 12 </span>(James, journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” a weekly column on ForeignPolicy.com, “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1]])
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The Republicans tend to paint themselves as hardheaded realists as against Obama’s universalist ..... </span><span class="TitleChar">Treating the world’s premier rising power like the Soviet Union in the 1960s would be a mistake of historic proportions</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

Global warming leads to extinction and destroys ports and infrastructure
Oliver <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Tickell</span>, Climate Researcher, 8/11/20<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">08</span>, On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction, The Guardian, Proquest
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told the .....</span><span class="TitleChar">could propel us towards a</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">similar</span><span class="TitleChar">hothouse Earth.</span>


==T--In== 
“In” means “throughout”
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Words and Phrases 8</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Permanent Edition, vol. 20a, p. 207)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Colo. 1887. In the Act of 1861 providing that justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction “in” their respective counties to hear and determine all complaints, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the word “in” should be construed to mean “throughout”</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> such counties. Reynolds v. Larkin, 14, p. 114, 117, 10 Colo. 126.</span>

There are nineteen deepwater ports throughout the United States
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">DOT No Date </span>
US Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration, http://www.marad.dot.gov/ports_landing_page/deepwater_port_licensing/dwp_current_ports/dwp_current_ports.htm
To date, **__nineteen Deepwater .....__** applications filed with the Maritime Administration to date.



==Consult Russia CP w/ Relations DA== 

Russia says yes to expansion of Arctic infrastructure, but consultation is key
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The Guardian 2010 </span>
“Vladimir Putin calls for Arctic claims to be resolved under UN law,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/sep/23/putin-arctic-claims-international-law]

Russia's prime minister, <span style="color: #084376;">Vladimir __Putin__</span>__, has .....__ Russia's centre of the North and Arctic Economy.


Unilateral action in the arctic pushes relations over the brink
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hart et al 12</span>
Andrew Hart, Bruce Jones and David Steven, Managing Global Order<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>May 2012, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/mgo/docs/jones_arctic.pdf]]</span>, Andrew Hart is a doctoral candidate at the University of Colorado.<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>Bruce Jones is Senior Fellow and Director of the Managing Global Order<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>Initiative (MGO) at Brookings and New York University’s Center on International<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>Cooperation (NYU/CIC).<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>David Steven is a Senior Fellow at NYU/CIC and leads MGO’s Geopolitics<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>of Scarcity Project.)
As the Cold War receded, so too did the strategic<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>..... and even elements of a model, for<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>tackling evolving challenges in other regions.

Relations key to solving nuclear war and terrorism
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">NTI 9 </span>
Global Security Newswire, “Russia Open to U.S. Suggestions on Improving Relations, Curbing Iran” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20090318_4374.php 3/19
**__Russian leaders have shownan interest in improving relations__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">..... solely through sanctions, and Russia's cooperation could contribute substantially to a successful outcome," the report adds (Nixon Center release, March 16).</span>


==Oil Adv CP== 

Text: The United States federal government should ban all oil drilling operations in the arctic until a pan-Arctic oil spill response standard and environmental standards for drilling in Arctic conditions are in place. The ban should not be announced until after the election.

CP solves an oil spill
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Morales 12 </span>
Alex, reporter for Bloomberg Businessweek, "U.K. Lawmakers Call for Moratorium on Arctic Oil & Gas Drilling", Sept 19 2012, http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-09-19/u-dot-k-dot-lawmakers-call-for-moratorium-on-arctic-oil-and-gas-drilling
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The report cited earlier evidence to another ..... dealing with an oil spill in the icy extremes of the Arctic would be exceptionally difficult,” Walley said. </span>


==Food DA== 

Food prices still high despite recent decline
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">NEW YORK TIMES 7-5-2012</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Good News on Food Prices, While It Lasts, http://green.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/07/05/good-news-on-food-prices-while-it-lasts/)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The F.A.O.’s global index of food prices fell by .....</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> extreme weather related to global warming is already having an impact on the food supply.</span>


High food prices force North Korea to seek food aid
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Chanlett-Avery 11</span>**- specialist in Asian affairs for the Congressional Research Service, MA from the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Emma “North Korea: U.S. Relations, Nuclear Diplomacy, and Internal Situation,” fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/167870.pdf//MGD)// </span>
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Beginning in early 2011, North Korea issued an .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Pyongyang because of concerns about supporting the regime. </span>//


//The plan lowers prices//
//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">IDB 9</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (“Logistics, Transport and Food Prices in LAC: Policy Guidance for Improving Efficiency and Reducing Costs” 7/3/9, [[http://idbdocs.iadb.org/wsdocs/getdocument.aspx?docnum=35028412]] MGE)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">¾ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Ocean shipping costs of food are impacted by ..... meaning that delays are particularly costly to consumers.</span>//


//That gives the US a bargaining chip over North Korea’s nuclear program//
//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">CNN 12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(March, “Analysis: North Korea deal promising, but questions persist,” http://security.blogs.cnn.com/2012/03/01/u-s-cautiously-optimistic-after-food-aid-deal-with-north-korea</span>///MGD)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Never a regime to do something for nothing, ..... sites that have gone unexamined for close to five years. </span>


North Korean prolif leads to war, nuclear fallout, extinction
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hayes and Hamel-Green 09</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Peter and Michael, “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” [[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Michael-Hamel_Green/3267]]//MGD)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The consequences of failing to address the .....</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> which one of the authors has characterized elsewhere as </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">“the end of American nuclear hegemony.”</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">8</span>


==2NR== 

Consult Russia with Relations DA


=Round Four vs. Westminster BH--Port Dredging= 

==Elections DA== 

Same UQ and Link

Obama win key to US-Russia relations – Romney’s agenda is belligerent and controversial.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Reichardt12</span> (Adam is the Managing Editor of New Eastern Europe, “Considering Russia in the Voting Booth,” New Eastern Europe, 7/9/2012, http://www.neweasterneurope.eu/node/382)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Obama’s policy towards Russia is easier to gauge, since .....</span><span class="TitleChar"> elite to become even more suspicious, and perhaps even hostile, to the intentions of American foreign policy.</span>


Relations key to solving prolif, terrorism, nuke war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NTI 9 </span>Global Security Newswire, “Russia Open to U.S. Suggestions on Improving Relations, Curbing Iran” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20090318_4374.php 3/19
__Russian leaders have shown an interest in improving relations__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.....</span>__Russia's cooperation could contribute substantially to a successful outcome__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">," the report adds (Nixon Center release, March 16).</span>


==T--Maintenence== 

And Infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance
**Lemer 11** - worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%e2%80%9cenough%e2%80%9d/|How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”]], [[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/]])

What has been neglected in all of the analyses that I have seen <span class="TitleChar">is an explicit consideration of </span>maintenance spending, <span class="TitleChar">as </span>distinct from investment. <span class="TitleChar">Infrastructure</span>, like most engineered systems, <span class="TitleChar">requires periodic care to keep it functioning properly</span>. Leaves, trash and other debris clog drains that channel rainwater away from roadways must be cleaned out. Filters that remove silt and bacteria from drinking water must be flushed. The costs of<span class="TitleChar"> such </span>maintenance<span class="TitleChar"> effort typically </span>are accrued in different accounts from<span class="TitleChar"> those the represent “</span>investment.” But if maintenance is neglected, the quality of services and longevity of facilities will be impaired. My discussions with people who manage maintenance in public works agencies suggest that maintenance budgets are often squeezed, forcing neglect.



==States CP== 

**Text –**

**The United States federal government should:**

**-- devolve all control over port dredging to state and local governments, including returning any current federal funding spent on port security to the states.**

**-- eliminate any barriers to greater private sector investment in port dredging**

**--grant states permission to transfer ownership port dredging to the private sector.**


**Solves the case – the CP encourages state experimentation with full privatization –**
**Edwards, 11** - director of tax policy studies at Cato.Before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation (Chris, “Federal Infrastructure Investment” Congressional Testimony, 11/16,[[http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment%29/DH|http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)//DH]]
<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Decentralizing Infrastructure Financing </span><span class="TitleChar">The U.S. economy needs.....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The solution is to privatize our air traffic control system, as Canada has done with very favorable results.31</span>

**The CP’s experiment creates the political will for full-scale infrastructure privatization**
**Winston, 10** -applied microeconomist and senior fellow in the Economic Studies Program at the[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brookings_Institution|Brookings Institution]]. He specializes in the analysis of and has written extensively on industrial organization, regulation, and transportation (Clifford,__Last Exit: Privatization and Deregulation of the U.S. Transportation System,__ p. 2-3)//DH//

//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Do the </span><span class="TitleChar">current problems with the transportation system </span>//.....//<span class="TitleChar"> of and justification </span>//for a new approach to transportation policy//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> that could significantly improve the system’s performance.</span>//

//**Using private sector capital diverts it from other countries – maximizes competitiveness more effectively than public spending**//
//**Staley, 8** - senior research fellow at Reason Foundation and associate director of the DeVoe L. Moore Center at Florida State University in Tallahassee where he teaches graduate and undergraduate courses in urban planning, regulation, and urban economics (Samuel, “Gas Tax Increase or Private Capital?,” 7/16, [[http://reason.org/news/show/1006992.html]])//DH

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Congress isn't waiting to see who wins in November ..... gets on track and</span><span class="TitleChar"> embraces private capital, our transportation system will continue to lag far behind our global competitors</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

==Commissions CP== 
Text – the President of the United States should establish an interagency commission which should publish a biennial transportation review with bipartisan congressional consultation. The interagency commission should recommend that __**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in port deepening projects in the United States.</span>**_ as a part of its first biennial transportation review.


Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates
Charles H. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)
"Policy statements"//<span style="font-size: 16px;">differ</span>//from <span class="TitleChar">substantive </span>.....<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> virtually the same effect Ronald in Levin, Nonlegislative Rules and the Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).</span>

Commissions avoid politics –
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Straus and Glassman -12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Matthew Eric Glassman, Analyst on the Congress, Jacob R. Straus, Analyst on the Congress, Congressional Commissions: Overview, Structure, and Legislative Considerations, February 15, 2012, CRS Reports, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R40076.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Throughout American history, </span><span class="TitleChar">Congress has found ....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> are expensive, often formed to take difficult decisions out of the hands of Congress, and are mostly ignored when they report their findings and recommendations. </span>

==Steel DA== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">China’s steel industry will recover now---but it’s shaky</span>**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hoyle and Clark 8/20</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Writers for the Wall Street Journal “For Struggling Steel Industry, China Offers Hope” 2012 [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390443855804577601403262749264.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Signs of a turnaround in the property ..... room for further increases if full-year targets for 2012 are to be met," Macquarie said. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">That massively undercuts China’s market share---destroys Chinese economic growth</span>**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Haley 09</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">George, Professor & Director, Center for International Industry Competitiveness, College of Business, University of New Haven March 24 2009 “Testimony before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Hearing: China’s Industrial Policy and its Impact on U.S. Companies, Workers and the American Economy,” [[http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2009hearings/written_testimonies/09_03_24_wrts/09_03_24_haley_statement.php]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">What impact has China’s support of its pillar industries had on ..... shifted production and employment overseas to remain price competitive. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Chinese exports are uniquely key---collapse causes CCP instability, global economic collapse, and US-Sino war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lewis 07</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Research Director of the Economic Research Council (Dan, April 19, 2007, “The nightmare of a Chinese economic collapse,” World Finance, [[http://www.economicpolicycentre.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/10/The-nightmare-of-a-Chinese-economic-collapse.pdf]]</span>
**__A reduction in demand for imported ......__** forecast for China was probablywrong. But my fear is there is at least a chance he was just early.

==2NR== 

Heg Bad


=Round Six vs. Dexter MS--CCS= 

==T--Pipelines== 
Pipelines are not transportation infrastructure – they are legally defined as energy infrastructure
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">US Chamber of Commerce 10 </span>
United States Chamber of Commerce, “Transportation Performance Index – Summary Report”, [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110]].pdf
Step 1 – //<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Definition</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">: Transportation</span> **Infrastructure**
It is important to establish a definition of ..... Infrastructure Performance Index <span class="TitleChar">**it is considered** an </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">element of energy infrastructure.</span>

Pipelines only contrast with transportation infrastructure
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Peters, 07</span> – Secretary of Transportation (Mary, Statement by her made before the committee on the budget – US house of representatives 10/25/07 http://testimony.ost.dot.gov/test/pasttest/07test/peters9.htm)//dm//
//Because transportation system ..... major network utilities such as <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">telecommunications, electricity, </span>pipelines, and railroads//.//

==Elections DA== 

Same UQ as Round Two

Public opposes CCS
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Stephenson 8</span> - Director, Natural Resources and Environment @ GAO
“Federal Actions Will Greatly Affect the Viability of Carbon Capture and Storage As a Key Mitigation Option,” GAO, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d081080.pdf
Thus far at least, <span class="TitleChar">there has been little **.....** **about CCS’s safety could potentially create confusion and** </span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">fear</span>//<span class="TitleChar"> **when commercial-scale CCS is implemented**</span>**.**

Romney election would destroy US-China relations which are key to warming and the global economy
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Traub 12 </span>(James, journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” a weekly column on ForeignPolicy.com, “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1]])
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The Republicans tend to paint themselves as .....</span> world’s premier rising power like the Soviet Union in the 1960s would be a mistake of historic proportions<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

Leads to trade war with China
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Reuters 11</span> (“Analysis: Obama to challenge China on trade as election nears” 10-13-11 http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/13/us-usa-china-trade-idUSTRE79C72820111013)
"We've been seeing for some time in<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ......</span> whether it will spill over into open warfare that could be mutually harmful<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">."</span>

==States CP== 

The 50 states, DC and territories should form an interstate compact that facilitates regulated pipeline transportation of captured carbon in the United States.

The counterplan solves – avoids delay, leads to a coordinated response and reduces private sector uncertainty
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Amann 10</span> Scholarly Group of Environmental and Energy Experts (Rachel Amann, December 31, 2010, “A Policy, Legal, and Regulatory Evaluation of the Feasibility of a National Pipeline Infrastructure for the Transport and Storage of Carbon Dioxide: Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission,” [[http://www.sseb.org/downloads/pipeline.pdf%29/DR|http://www.sseb.org/downloads/pipeline.pdf)//DR]]. H
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">An interstate advisory compact may be ..... also allow for a quicker and more efficient regulatory response because of the proximity between the regulated community and the regulators</span>**.**


==Clean Tech DA== 

US is leading the clean-tech race now
Swartz 11
Jon, May, “Big companies aggressively jump into clean tech,” http://www.usatoday.com/tech/news/2011-05-25-green-tech-investing_n.htm
A few years ago, investing in green technology **......**<span class="underline"> **<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">huge, transformational picture</span>" in energy use**</span>, he says.


The plantrades off – it undercuts the political will for renewables
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Parfomak and Folger 7</span> - *Specialist in Energy and Infrastructure Resources, Science, and Industry Division, **Specialist in Energy Policy Resources, Science, and Industry Division**
**Paul and Peter, CRS Report for Congress, “Carbon Dioxide (CO2) //.....//**of energy and environmental policies**.**


**Clean tech leadership averts global war – independently turns warming and economy**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Klarevas 9</span> – Professor of Global Affairs**
**Louis, Professor at the Center for Global Affairs – New York University, “[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html|Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony]]”, Huffington Post, 12-15, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">By not addressing climate change more a..... that can</span> be employed to <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">keep potential foes in check</span>**.**


==QER CP== 

Text – The President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology should direct the Department of Energy to include a Quadrennial Energy Review as an addendum to the Quadrennial Technology Review. The President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology should direct the Department of Energy to include a recommendation to _**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">substantially increase its liquid carbon backbone pipeline infrastructure investment in the United States.</span>**___ as a part of the Quadrennial Energy Review.

Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates
Charles H. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">"Policy statements"</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">differ</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">from substantive .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and interpretative rules have virtually the same effect Ronald in Levin, Nonlegislative Rules and the Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).</span>


The counterplan solves the entirely of the aff, and avoids the links to politics.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Jones -11</span> (Richard M. Jones, Government Relations Division, American Institute of Physics, March 24, 2011, FYI: The AIP Bulletin of Science Policy News, http://www.aip.org/fyi/2011/039.html)
Individuals have until April 15 to file comments ..... beginning with a close reading of the framing document and your responses to the questions it poses.”


==2NR== 

QER CP
Elections DA

=Round Seven vs. Berkeley Prep DD--NIB w/ Elections= 


==Food Prices DA== 

High food prices force North Korea to seek food aid
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Chanlett-Avery 11</span>**- specialist in Asian affairs for the Congressional Research Service, MA from the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Emma “North Korea: U.S. Relations, Nuclear Diplomacy, and Internal Situation,” fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/167870.pdf//MGD)// </span>
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Beginning in early 2011, North Korea..... because of concerns about supporting the regime. </span>//

//Transportation infrastructure investment lowers food prices//
//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">PECC 4</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (“The Role of Transportation Infrastructure in a Seamless Food System,” Pacific Food System Outlook 2004-2005, [[http://www.pecc.org/resources/doc_view/638-pacific-food-system-outlook-the-role-of-transportation-infrastructure-in-a-seamless-food-system]] MGE)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">From a local perspective, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">building or </span>enhancing .....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> services, as well as improved coordination, performance and scheduling of transportation services to avoid bottlenecks. </span>//

//That gives the US a bargaining chip over North Korea’s nuclear program//
//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">CNN 12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(March, “Analysis: North Korea deal promising, but questions persist,” http://security.blogs.cnn.com/2012/03/01/u-s-cautiously-optimistic-after-food-aid-deal-with-north-korea</span>///MGD)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Never a regime to do something for nothing, ..... nuclear sites that have gone unexamined for close to five years. </span>

North Korean prolif leads to war, nuclear fallout, extinction
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hayes and Hamel-Green 10</span>(Peter, Professor, RMIT University and Michale Hamel-Green, Victory University, "The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia," SPECIAL REPORT 10-001, Nautilus Institute, 1-5-10, [[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf|www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The international community is increasingly ..... power which one of the authors has characterized elsewhere as “the end of American nuclear hegemony.”8</span>


==T--Investment== 


This Investment must be capital spending on infrastructure’s physical capital
**CBO, 9** – Congressional Budget Office (“Subsidizing Infrastructure Investment with Tax-Preferred Bonds”, October, [[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/106xx/doc10667/10-26-taxpreferredbonds.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In this analysis, </span>investment in infrastructure is ..... rather than intangible capital, which is formed by spending on educational programs or on research and development<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


==Oil DA== 

Oil Prices are high and on the rise
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Washington Post 9/14</span> (“Oil prices hit four-month high”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/oil-prices-hit-four-month-high/2012/09/14/b09829ca-fe9f-11e1-b153-218509a954e1_story.html]], 9/14/12)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Oil prices hit their highest levels in more than four months .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Rapidan Group, a consulting firm. But in the outside world, “</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the market is tight as a drum</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>

NIB cuts oil consumption
**Lehner 10**– Executive Director of the Natural Resources Defense Council (Peter, “Battling Our Oil Dependence Once and For All: A Blueprint” Bello Velo, June 20th, [[http://bellovelo.blogspot.com/2010/06/battling-our-oil-dependence-once-and.html]])
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Our blueprint, the </span>__Route to Reform, prioritizes .....__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">to working with Congress and the President on this goal, for the sake of the Gulf, the planet, and future generations. </span>


Russia’s economy RELIES on these prices
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">GM 9/15</span> (Globe and Mail news service, “For Russia, high energy prices a necessity, not a luxury”, [[http://m.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/international-business/european-business/for-russia-high-energy-prices-a-necessity-not-a-luxury/article4546314/?service=mobile]], 9/15/12)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Kremlin does not take political dissent with good grace. ..... put the budget-clearing figure at $120. Citibank has calculated that </span>every $10 decline in the price of oil reduces the Russian government’s revenues by //$20-billion//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>


Russian economic collapse causes nuclear war and terrorism
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Filger 9 </span>[Sheldon Filger, columnist and founder of GlobalEconomicCrisis.com, May 10, 2009, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In Russia</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, historically</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">economic health and political stability are .....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that the financial impact of the Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.</span>




==Election Adv CP== 

**Text: The President of the United States should issue an executive order to develop and fully integrate information systems that aid in combating terrorism.**

**Solves their internal link to elections—**

Public Loves Obama On Terror
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Wilson and Cohen, 2/8</span>/12 (Scott Wilson and Jon Cohen, “ Poll finds broad support for Obama’s counterterrorism policies ”, The Washington Post, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/poll-finds-broad-support-for-obamas-counterterrorism-policies/2012/02/07/gIQAFrSEyQ_story.html]])
The sharpest edges of President **__Obama’s counterterrorism policy__**, ..... He pledged during his first week in office to close the prison within a year, but he has not done so.


Only the CP solves - There are many ways to crack the system and only one successful crack is needed to break the network
**Garreau 05**, Joel Garreau, staff writer for the Washington Post, “Intelligence Gathering Is the Best Way to Reduce Terrorism,” //Are Efforts to Reduce Terrorism Successful?,// published by Lauri Friedman, pg 60-63//MC

Another tactic: advancing the cause of the weakest link...... it’s going to be literally, literally exhausting and impossible. It will be desperate missile attacks at the wrong targets with a lot of suffering.


Terrorism results in extinction
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Sid-Ahmed 04 </span>
Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, “Extinction!” August 26-September 1, Issue no. 705, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A nuclear attack by terrorists will be much more critical ..... When nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.</span>

==Security K== 

Infrastructure Control by the affirmative reentrenches an ideology of Critical Infrastructure Protection which defines infrastructure as targets to continue the endless cycle of insecurities and also justify targeted warfare.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Collier &Lakoff 8</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(PhD in Anthropology @ Berkeley & PhD in Sociocultural Anthropology @ Berkley (Stephen J. & Andrew, “The Vulnerability of Vital Systems: How “Critical Infrastructure” Became a Security Problem” //The Politics of Securing the Homeland: Critical Infrastructure, Risk and Securitisation// 2008 [[http://anthropos-lab.net/wp/publications/2008/01/collier-and-lakoff.pdf%29/JES|http://anthropos-lab.net/wp/publications/2008/01/collier-and-lakoff.pdf)//JES]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">In this chapter we ask: Where did this distinctive way ..... post-Cold War national security in documents such as Critical Foundations, cited above.</span>

Reject the affirmative—Only rejection the logic of security allows us to be emancipated from this ideology and develop a better politics. We don’t need to reform or replace security, only to return the gift of the state and deny its biopolitics.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Neocleous 8</span> (Mark Neocleous, professor of critique of political economy at Brunei University. “Critique of Security” pages 185-186)

The only way out<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of such a dilemma, to escape the .....</span> but bracketing it out and handing it to the state; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.143 </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>

==Steel DA== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">China’s steel industry will recover now---but it’s shaky</span>**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hoyle and Clark 8/20</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Writers for the Wall Street Journal “For Struggling Steel Industry, China Offers Hope” 2012 [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390443855804577601403262749264.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Signs of a turnaround in the property market and ..... a very slow start to the year and there is plenty of room for further increases if full-year targets for 2012 are to be met," Macquarie said. </span>

The aff revives the US steel industry
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">AAM 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Alliance for American Manufacturing Feb 2010 “Buy America Works: Longstanding United States Policy Enhances the Job Creating Effect of Government Spending”, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.mcwanebuyamerican.com/pdfs/buyamericanworks.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The deterioration of our industrial base, caused in large ..... must do the same if the United States is to successfully compete now and in the years to come.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">That massively undercuts China’s market share---destroys Chinese economic growth</span>**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Haley 09</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">George, Professor & Director, Center for International Industry Competitiveness, College of Business, University of New Haven March 24 2009 “Testimony before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Hearing: China’s Industrial Policy and its Impact on U.S. Companies, Workers and the American Economy,” [[http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2009hearings/written_testimonies/09_03_24_wrts/09_03_24_haley_statement.php]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">What impact has China’s support of its pillar ..... cut U.S. based capacity and shifted production and employment overseas to remain price competitive. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Chinese exports are uniquely key---collapse causes CCP instability, global economic collapse, and US-Sino war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lewis 07</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Research Director of the Economic Research Council (Dan, April 19, 2007, “The nightmare of a Chinese economic collapse,” World Finance, [[http://www.economicpolicycentre.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/10/The-nightmare-of-a-Chinese-economic-collapse.pdf]]</span>
**__A reduction in demand for imported Chinese .....__** forecast for China was probablywrong. But my fear is there is at least a chance he was just early.


==2NR== 

Oil DA
Case