[[toc]]
=Round Two Vs. Holt EG- Bering Straight Kritikal Aff= 

==T- "In" (2nr)== 

“In” means within the limits of
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Webster’s 6</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Merriam Webster Online Dictionary, 06 (</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary?book=Dictionary&va=in]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Main Entry: 1in Pronunciation: 'in, &n, &n Function: preposition Etymology: Middle English, from Old English; akin to Old High German in in, Latin in, Greek en 1 a -- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">used</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as a function word </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to indicate inclusion, location, or position within limits</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><in the lake><wounded in the leg><in the summer></span>

==Election DA== 

**Obama’s winning swing states now—ensures reelection**
**Oleaga 10/19** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, October 19, 2012, “Latest Electoral College Projections, Predictions: Obama Wins Presidential Election if Swing States Voted Today,” http://www.latinospost.com/articles/5741/20121019/latest-electoral-college-projections-predictions-obama-wins-romney-debate-moderator.htm)//DR. H</span>
Up to 10 states … Electoral College votes.

The plan would cause a massive political firestorm—it’s viewed as a ridiculous pork project
**CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR 2006** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(How pet projects in Alaska became pet peeve on Hill, July 25, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thomas Pease's flower-scented … Priorities Project in Juneau.</span>

I/L- Obama win key to US-Russia relations – Romney’s agenda is belligerent and controversial.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reichardt 12</span> (Adam is the Managing Editor of New Eastern Europe, “Considering Russia in the Voting Booth,” New Eastern Europe, 7/9/2012, http://www.neweasterneurope.eu/node/382)
Obama’s policy towards Russia … <span class="TitleChar">American foreign policy.</span>

Relations key to solving prolif, terrorism, nuke war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NTI 9</span>Global Security Newswire, “Russia Open to U.S. Suggestions on Improving Relations, Curbing Iran” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20090318_4374.php 3/19
Russian leaders have … substantially to a successful outcome<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," the report adds (Nixon Center release, March 16).</span>

==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Canada CP</span>== 

Text: The Government of Canada should build rail links to Alaska to Russia.

Normal means is the U.S. doesn’t build rail in Canada—their author.
**Singularity Hub, 11** (Singularity Hub, 9/15/11, “This Ain’t Your Ancestors’ Ice Bridge – Russia To Build Tunnel Across Bering Strait,” Sep 15, http://singularityhub.com/2011/09/15/this-aint-your-ancestors-ice-bridge-%E2%80%93-russia-to-build-tunnel-across-bering-strait/)
And then there’s … billion and $65 billion.

The counterplan is a __prerequisite__ which builds political momentum to do the plan.
**Barry 11** (Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, October 04, 2011, “M.P. Barry Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada”, Universal Peace Federation, [[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada)/EM|http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada)]]
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">This paper argues that … through Canada to Fairbanks.</span>

=<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Round Three VS. Mukwonago FK- Abelism Kritikal Aff</span>= 

==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Word PIC CP- (2NR)</span>== 

Text: The United States Federal Government should implement Transgenerational Design into transportation infrastructure in the United States. We reserve the right to clarify.
The term “Universal Design” is associated exclusively with disabilities – this association empties the term of any potential versatility and means that it provokes stigmatization. Language shapes reality– finding a different way of labeling Universal Design’s intended meaning is key to solve.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bringolf 08</span> (Jane, Former Executive Director with the Independent Living Centre NSW (New South Wales), Recipient of the Churchill Fellowship, Multi, Volume 1 Number 2, Spring/Summer, “Universal Design: Is it Accessible?” p. 45-51)</span></span>
Language has played, and … will become truly inclusive.

The term “Transgenerational Design” solves better than “Universal Design” – it avoids stigmatizing the disabled.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pirkl 11</span> (J.J., professor emeritus of industrial design and past chairman of the department of design at Syracuse University, “Chapter 9: Transgenerational Design: A Heart Transplant for Housing,” __The Silver Market Phenomenon: Marketing and Innovation in the Aging Society (Second Edition)__, Ed. Florian Kohlbacher and Cornelius Herstatt, p. 119)</span></span>
Builders and manufacturers … rather than stigmatize.

==T- Transportation Investment== 

A. Interpretation - Infrastructure investment is financial support for a physical asset, but not for minor remodeling
**DOE, 10** – US department of Education (“Clarifying Guidance on American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 Section 1512 Quarterly Reporting”, American Recovery and reinvestment Act, www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/.../guidance-1512-quarterly-reporting.doc)
For the purposes of … include “minor remodeling” as defined in 34 C.F.R. § 77.1(c).

And Infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance
**Lemer 11** - worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%e2%80%9cenough%e2%80%9d/|How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”]], [[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/]])
What has been neglected … squeezed, forcing neglect.

Increase is a net increase—not a trade-off with existing programs.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">WORDS AND PHRASES, 2007</span> CUMULATIVE SUPPLEMENTARY PAMPHLET, Vol. 20A, 07, 309.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Increase:</span> Term “increase” as used in statute giving the Energy Commission modification jurisdiction over any alteration, replacement, or improvement of equipment that results in “increase” of 50 megawatts or more in electric generating capacity of existing thermal power plant, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">refers to “net increase”</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in power plant’s total generating capacity</span> in deciding whether there has been the requisite 50-megawatt increase as a result of new units being incorporated into the plant. Department of Water & Power v. Energy Resources Conservation & Development Com., 3 Cal.Rptr.2d 289, 2 Cal.App.4th 206.

==Election DA== 

**Obama’s winning swing states now—ensures reelection**
**Oleaga 10/19** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, October 19, 2012, “Latest Electoral College Projections, Predictions: Obama Wins Presidential Election if Swing States Voted Today,” http://www.latinospost.com/articles/5741/20121019/latest-electoral-college-projections-predictions-obama-wins-romney-debate-moderator.htm)//DR. H</span>
Up to 10 states … Electoral College votes.

Disability policies are unpopular – they’re linked to Medicaid.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mears, CNN Supreme Court Producer, 3/28/12</span>
[Bill, CNN Supreme Court Producer, March 28, 2012, CNN Wire, “Supreme Court argues Medicaid expansion provision,” LexisNexis, accessed 7/13/12, JTF]
WASHINGTON (CNN) -- A divided Supreme … of money to the states."

I/L- Obama win key to US-Russia relations – Romney’s agenda is belligerent and controversial.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reichardt 12</span> (Adam is the Managing Editor of New Eastern Europe, “Considering Russia in the Voting Booth,” New Eastern Europe, 7/9/2012, http://www.neweasterneurope.eu/node/382)
Obama’s policy towards Russia … <span class="TitleChar">American foreign policy.</span>

Relations key to solving prolif, terrorism, nuke war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NTI 9</span>Global Security Newswire, “Russia Open to U.S. Suggestions on Improving Relations, Curbing Iran” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20090318_4374.php 3/19
Russian leaders have … substantially to a successful outcome<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," the report adds (Nixon Center release, March 16).</span>

==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Cap K</span>== 

**Federal infrastructure projects are __situated__ within history as a tool to __integrate__ both the nation and the world into the __global capitalist order__ of the US – This create an __imperial ideology__ that justifies the __ruthless expansion__ of capital into foreign markets and causes __short-termism__ causes __environmental collapse__**
**Smith 8** (Jason Scott, assistant professor of history at the University of New Mexico, "The New Deal Order," Enterprise and Society Vol. 9 Num 3 2008, Muse)
By using the lens of … Deal's public works projects.[[http://muse.jhu.edu.go.libproxy.wfubmc.edu/journals/enterprise_and_society/v009/9.3.smith.html#f14|14]]

**Our alternative is to Vote __neg__ – the purpose of the debate should be __envisioning a different relationship__ toward the knowledge capital produces – only by __situating ourselves__ as intellectuals outside of state politics can solvency start – reformism __is__ the __link__ means the perm gets __co-opted__ too**
**Meszaros 8** (Istvan, Chair of Philosophy at the University of Sussex, The Challenge and Burden of Historical Time, p323-328)
The unreality of postulation … ongoing historical enterprise.

=Round Five VS. LakeLand PS- Port Security= 

==T- Transportation Infrastructure== 

Interpretation: Transportation infrastructure is the underlying structure that allows for the movement of goods and people.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Trimbath 9</span> (Dr. Susanne, Senior Research Economist in Capital Market Studies at Milken Institute, Senior Advisor – United States Chamber of Commerce, and Professor of Economics and Accounting – Bellvue University, “Transportation Infrastructure: Paving the Way”, [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/infrastructur]] e/files/2009TPI_Update_Economics_White_Paper_110712.pdf)
The strategy applied by … (Ports) - Intermodal Links

Violation: Plan is monitoring transportation infrastructure, not infrastructure itself.
USDOT RITA 2012 (US Department of Transportation Research and Innovative Technology Administration, March 28 EM05-Transportation Infrastructure Protection http://www.iteris.com/itsarch/html/mp/mpem05.htm)
This service package … impact of an incident.

==CP- (2NR)== 

CP Text: The United States federal government should initiate an environmental impact assessment regarding the consequences of providing substantial investment in cargo container screening at ports in the United States through ultra-high speed gas chromatography and adopt such a measure if, and only if, it meets compliance requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act.

The CP competes – binding EIS includes the option to __not do the plan__.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reddy 2008 (Bina – J.D. from the University Texas School of Law, Student Note Editors for the Texas Environmental Law Journal, associate at Beveridge& Diamond, P.C., The Hard Road: NEPA Review of the Trans-Texas Corridor After Sep-15 and SAFETEA-LU § 6005, p. Lexis-Nexis)</span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The counterplan reverses the trend of categorical exclusions – key to revitalizing NEPA</span>

<span class="cite">Green Group8</span>

Coalition of 30 Environmental groups, Transition to Green: Environmental Trasnition Recommendation for the Obama Administration, Group Includes: American Rivers - Center For International Environmental Law- Clean Water Action- Defenders Of Wildlife - Earthjustice - Environment America - Environmental Defense Fund - Friends Of The Earth- Greenpeace - Izaak Walton League - League Of Conservation Voters -National Audubon Society - National Parks Conservation Association -National Tribal Environmental Council - National Wildlife Federation- Native American Rights Fund - Natural Resources Defense Council - Oceana -Ocean Conservancy - Pew Environment Group -Physicians For Social Responsibility - Population Connection -Population Action International -Rails-To-Trails Conservancy - Sierra Club - The Wilderness Society -The Trust For Public Land - Union Of Concerned Scientists -World Wildlife Fund, http://otrans.3cdn.net/ba9c868ec4fe74f1b8_2pm62vhlb.pdf

That solves global ecological sustainability
Caldwell 98 – Professor of Political Science @ IU
Lynton K. Caldwell, Prof. of Political Science/Public and Environmental Affairs @ Indiana Univ., 22 Harv. Envtl. L. Rev. 203, Beyond NEPA: Future Significance of the National Environmental Policy Act, Lexis


Extinction

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jowit 8</span> – sex edited

Julien, The Guardian, World is facing a natural resources crisis worse than financial crunch, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2008/oct/29/climatechange-endangeredhabitats

==Security K== 


Terrorist rhetoric that stems from fear generates more terrorism – 4 reasons

Kapitan and Schulte 2(Tomis and Erich, Thomas – Prof of Philosophy @ N Illinois U, and Erich – , Journal of Political and Military Sociology Vol. 30 Iss. 1, 2002, pp. 172+, Questia)


Reject the affirmative—Only rejection the logic of security allows us to be emancipated from this ideology and develop a better politics. We don’t need to reform or replace security, only to return the gift of the state and deny its biopolitics.

Neocleous 8 (Mark Neocleous, professor of critique of political economy at Brunei University. “Critique of Security” pages 185-186)

==Elections DA== 


**Obama’s winning swing states now—ensures reelection**

**Oleaga 10/19** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, October 19, 2012, “Latest Electoral College Projections, Predictions: Obama Wins Presidential Election if Swing States Voted Today,” http://www.latinospost.com/articles/5741/20121019/latest-electoral-college-projections-predictions-obama-wins-romney-debate-moderator.htm)//DR. H</span>

Up to 10 states … Electoral College votes.


Container security is unpopular – DHS opposition proves

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nadler 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jerrold Nadler is the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_House_of_Representatives|U.S. Representative]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York%27s_8th_congressional_district|New York's 8th congressional district]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, serving since 1992, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html?_r=1)</span>


I/L- Obama win key to US-Russia relations – Romney’s agenda is belligerent and controversial.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reichardt 12</span> (Adam is the Managing Editor of New Eastern Europe, “Considering Russia in the Voting Booth,” New Eastern Europe, 7/9/2012, http://www.neweasterneurope.eu/node/382)

Obama’s policy towards Russia … <span class="TitleChar">American foreign policy.</span>



Relations key to solving prolif, terrorism, nuke war

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NTI 9</span>Global Security Newswire, “Russia Open to U.S. Suggestions on Improving Relations, Curbing Iran” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20090318_4374.php 3/19

Russian leaders have … substantially to a successful outcome<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," the report adds (Nixon Center release, March 16).</span>







[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]