= = 
[[toc]]
=Round Two vs. H.H. Dow BS--Native Infra Bank= 

==Elections DA== 

Obama has a slight lead nationally but ahead in Ohio
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cohn 10-30</span> (Nate, elections analyst for The New Republic. “Daily Breakdown: A Tight Race Nationally And In North Carolina.” http://www.tnr.com/blog/electionate/109372/daily-breakdown-tight-race-nationally-and-in-north-carolina)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">While there have been plenty of days when many felt that .....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama still maintains a 2.2 point lead in the 18 Ohio polls conducted since October 15.</span>

Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular—Americans unwilling to pay
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Alden 12</span> (Edward, Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6-14-12, CFR, [[http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]]]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Americans understood this once upon a time, ..... money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.</span>


Romney election would destroy US-China relations which are key to warming and the global economy
Traub 12 (James, journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” a weekly column on ForeignPolicy.com, “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1]])
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The Republicans tend to paint themselves as hardheaded realists ..... </span><span class="TitleChar">Treating the world’s premier rising power like the Soviet Union in the 1960s would be a mistake of historic proportions</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

Global warming leads to extinction and destroys ports and infrastructure
Oliver <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tickell</span>, Climate Researcher, 8/11/20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">08</span>, On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction, The Guardian, Proquest
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, .....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">may be analogous to the present: the warming</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">caused by human emissions</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">could propel us towards a</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">similar</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">hothouse Earth.</span>



==Virilio K== 

**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Increasing transportation infrastructureleads to ontological destruction: the world appears only through a car windshield or tv screen. Speed paradoxically makes us more immobile and decreases the freedom of bodies. </span>**
Paul __Virilio 2004The Paul Virilio Reader (European Perspectives: A Series in Social Thought and Cultural Criticism)__ Chapter 9: The Last Vehicle Columbia University Press

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">To comprehend the significance of this introduction of the "mobile camera" or, to put it another</span>.....<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> the teleport instead of the port, the train station and the international airport.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Dutch801RmBT','sans-serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">The alternative is to reject the aff. This rejection is a positive action to affirm the experience of the human body and create new shared perceptions of the world that do not rely on the prerogatives of speed and war</span>**

Ian __<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">James</span>__ 20__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">07</span>__Paul Virilio (Routledge Critical Thinkers).Routledge<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. (Ian James specialises in twentieth-century and contemporary French literature and philosophy. He is the author of //Pierre Klossowski: The Persistence of a Name// (Oxford Legenda, 2000), //The Fragmentary Demand: An Introduction to the Philosophy of Jean-Luc Nancy// (Stanford University Press, 2006) and //Paul Virilio// (Routledge, 2007). He is also co-editor of //Whispers of the Flesh: Essays in Memory of Pierre Klossowski// (//Diacritics//, Spring 2005) and //Exposures: Critical Essays on Jean-Luc Nancy// (//Oxford Literary Review//, vol. 27, 2005). He is currently working on a project which examines the way in which the question of technology has been taken up in recent French philosophy.)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Perpetua','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The ‘oblique function’, in insisting on a dominance of inclined planes __..... name of new and different ways ofcoding and recoding shared perceptions of the world.__</span>

==T== 

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A. Interpretation – the plan and only the plan is the focal point of topicality. On face, the plan must exclusively increase transportation infrastructure investment. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">This Investment must be capital spending on infrastructure’s physical capital</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">CBO, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> – Congressional Budget Office (“Subsidizing Infrastructure Investment with Tax-Preferred Bonds”, October, [[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/106xx/doc10667/10-26-taxpreferredbonds.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">In this analysis, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">investment in infrastructure ..... rather than intangible capital, which is formed by spending on educational programs or on research and development</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">And only __direct__ investments constitute capital spending</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Gramlich 98 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">– </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">former professor of economics at the University of Michigan and a former member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (Edward, Before the President's Commission to Study Capital Budgeting, Washington, D.C., 3/6/98, http://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/speeches/1998/19980306.htm)//EM</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Apart from politics, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">how in principle should </span>__.....<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">But there will be major headaches involved in identifying this small amount of spending.</span>



==Oil DA== 

Hurricane Sandy provides a steady rise for oil prices
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">BA 10/29</span> (Balitang America news service, citing the CNN, “OIL PRICES LIKELY TO RISE DUE TO HURRICANE SANDY”, [[http://www.balitangamerica.tv/oil-prices-likely-to-rise-due-to-hurricane-sandy/]], 10/29/12)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Gas </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">prices are expected to go up after Hurricane Sandy .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Sandy’s maximum winds were at 90 mph earlier on Monday.</span>

Status quo U.S. transportation is key to sustained demand for oil – the plan reduces consumption
**WC 8**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (World Crisis news service,“World Oil Crisis: Driving forces, Impact and Effects,” http://www.world-crisis.net/oil-crisis.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The demand side of Peak oil is concerned with the consumption of oil over time, .....resulting in part from economic growth rates of over 10 percent for 5 years in a row. </span>

Russia’s economy RELIES on these prices
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GM 9/15</span> (Globe and Mail news service, “For Russia, high energy prices a necessity, not a luxury”, [[http://m.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/international-business/european-business/for-russia-high-energy-prices-a-necessity-not-a-luxury/article4546314/?service=mobile]], 9/15/12)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Kremlin does not take political dissent with good grace. .....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">price of oil reduces the Russian government’s revenues by </span>//$20-billion//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>


Russian economic collapse causes nuclear war and terrorism
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Filger 9 </span>[Sheldon Filger, columnist and founder of GlobalEconomicCrisis.com, May 10, 2009, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In Russia</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, historically</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">economic health and political stability are intertwined</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> .....It may be that the financial impact of the Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.</span>


==QTR CP== 

Text – the Department of Energy should alter the Quadrennial Technology Review to include a recommendation to substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment by fully funding a Tribal Infrastructure Bank on a direct T-bill issuance.

Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates
Charles H. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"Policy statements"</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">differ</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">from substantive rules .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Nonlegislative Rules and the Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).</span>


CP solves the aff – changes future budget decisions.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tollefson -11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Jeff Tollefson, DOE releases first Quadrennial Technology Review, September 27, 2011, http://blogs.nature.com/news/2011/09/doe_releases_first_quadrennial_1.html)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> US Department of Energy (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">DOE) released its</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> .....focus on energy markets, business, policy analysis and, most intriguingly, social sciences.</span>

Solves the Case---the practical result is the same as binding law---the policy statement sends the signal of the plan and causes agencies to implement it
James <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hunnicutt 99,</span> J.D., Boston College Law School, December 1999, “NOTE: Another Reason to Reform the Federal Regulatory System: Agencies' Treating Nonlegislative Rules as Binding Law,” Boston College Law Review, 41 B.C. L. Rev 153, p. lexis
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Depending on whether a rule is adopted with or .....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> have</span>//already fought//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the rule</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in court </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and have</span>//given up//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">on the appeals process.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> n156</span>

==2NR== 

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Elections DA</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">QTR CP</span>


=Round Three vs. Chattahoochie KP--Port Security= 

==Elections DA== 

Most accurate poll-based models show Obama will win but Romney could still pull ahead
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Dickinson 10-29 </span>(Matthew Dickinson is a professor of political science at Middlebury College. He taught previously at Harvard University, where he also received his Ph.D., working under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt. Dickinson is the author of Bitter Harvest: FDR, Presidential Power, and the Growth of the Presidential Branch (Cambridge University Press), co-editor of Guardian of the Presidency: The Legacy of Richard E. Neustadt (Brookings Institution Press) and has published numerous articles on national governing institutions, including Congress, the bureaucracy, the presidency, presidential decision making, and presidential advisers. “Different Forecast, Same Result: More Political Science Models.” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2012/10/29/different-forecast-same-result-more-political-science-models/)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">I want to stress that these models use the latest ..... </span>//the odds seem to be in Obama’s favor.//

Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular—Americans unwilling to pay
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Alden 12</span> (Edward, Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6-14-12, CFR, [[http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]]]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Americans understood this once upon a time, building the ..... money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.</span>

Romney election would destroy US-China relations which are key to warming and the global economy
Traub 12 (James, journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” a weekly column on ForeignPolicy.com, “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1]])
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The Republicans tend to paint themselves as hardheaded realists ..... </span><span class="TitleChar">Treating the world’s premier rising power like the Soviet Union in the 1960s would be a mistake of historic proportions</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

Global warming leads to extinction and destroys ports and infrastructure
Oliver <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tickell</span>, Climate Researcher, 8/11/20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">08</span>, On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction, The Guardian, Proquest
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming,.....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">could propel us towards a</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">similar</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">hothouse Earth.</span>


==Commissions CP== 

Text – the President of the United States should establish an interagency commission which should publish a biennial transportation review with bipartisan congressional consultation. The interagency commission should recommend that the United States federal government provide substantial no-match required grant funding for port security as a part of its first biennial transportation review.

Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates
Charles H. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"Policy statements"</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">differ</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">from substantive rules .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Nonlegislative Rules and the Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).</span>

Commissions avoid politics – seen as bipartisan.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Straus and Glassman -12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Matthew Eric Glassman, Analyst on the Congress, Jacob R. Straus, Analyst on the Congress, Congressional Commissions: Overview, Structure, and Legislative Considerations, February 15, 2012, CRS Reports, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R40076.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Throughout American history, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Congress has found commissions .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and are mostly ignored when they report their findings and recommendations. </span>


==T== 

A. Interpretation: “Transportation infrastructure” is only the underlying delivery structures for goods and services
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Trimbath 9</span> (Dr. Susanne, Senior Research Economist in Capital Market Studies at Milken Institute, Senior Advisor – United States Chamber of Commerce, and Professor of Economics and Accounting – Bellvue University, “Transportation Infrastructure: Paving the Way”, [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/infrastructur]] e/files/2009TPI_Update_Economics_White_Paper_110712.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">V. Paving the Way Forward</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The strategy applied by the US Chamber of Commerce ....</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- Waterways (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Ports</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Intermodal Links</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">And transportation infrastructure is NOT military</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Musick, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> – Congressional Budget Office’s Microeconomic Studies Division (Nathan, “Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure,”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">[[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11940/11-17-infrastructure.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Although different definitions of “infrastructure” exist, ..... (such as those conducted by </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">the Army Corps of Engineers</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).</span>

The DoD includes the Coast Guard in its definition of the “United States armed forces”
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">DoD 05</span> (Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms. US Department of Defense 2005. “United States Armed Forces.” http://www.thefreedictionary.com/United+States+Armed+Forces)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Used to denote collectively only the regular components of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard</span>. See also Armed Forces of the United States





==COC CP== 

Text: The United States Federal Government should hold an international conference consisting of willing governments and private entities to propose the creation of an international Code of Conduct for the purpose of improving shipping container security as per our Dahlman evidence.

This gets other countries on board for multilateral action – solves the case
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Dahlman et al 2k5 -</span>OD Science Applications, Sweden (Ola, Jenifer Mackby, Bernard Sitt, Andre Poucet, ArendMeerburg, Bernard Massinon, Edward Ifft, Masahiko Asada, Ralph Alewine “Container Security: Proposal for a Comprehensive Code of Conduct,” Defense & Technology Papers are published by the National Defense University Center for Technology, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA434718)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The most urgent next step is to explore </span>..... where the G8 agreed to develop pilot projects to model an integrated container security regime.

A multilateral Code of Conduct for maritime trade solves container security
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Dahlman et al 2k5 -</span>OD Science Applications, Sweden (Ola, Jenifer Mackby, Bernard Sitt, Andre Poucet, ArendMeerburg, Bernard Massinon, Edward Ifft, Masahiko Asada, Ralph Alewine “Container Security: Proposal for a Comprehensive Code of Conduct,” Defense & Technology Papers are published by the National Defense University Center for Technology, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA434718)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Container security is not just a national issue for a single country, ..... Assist in the training of personnel in national authorities.</span>

==<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NR</span>== 

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Heg Bad</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Elections DA</span>

=Round Six vs. East Kentwood KS--Milliken Courts= 


==Amendments CP== 

Text: Pursuant to Article V of the Constitution, Congress should pass and more than three fourths of the Statesshould ratify a constitutional amendment stating that interdistrict bussing is an appropriate desegregation remedy. <span style="font-size: 16px;">We’ll clarify.</span>

Amendments can do anything
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Schaffner 05</span> [Joan, Prof of Law @ George Washington Law, “The federal marriage amendment: To protect the sanctity of marriage or destroy constitutional democracy?,” 54 Am. U.L. Rev. 1487, ln]

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Nevertheless, </span><span class="underline">the</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">generally</span><span class="underline">accepted legal view</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">derived from the plain .....</span><span class="underline">Court has no power to determine the content of the Constitution</span>, <span style="font-size: 8px;">but only the power to interpret that which the Constitution does contain. 50</span>


It won’t be challenged or rolled back
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Vermeule ‘04</span> [Adrian, Prof @ Chicago Law, “Constitutional Amendments and the Constitutional Common Law,” http://www.law.uchicago.edu/academics/publiclaw/index.html]

<span class="underline">A benefit of formal amendments</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">then**,** </span><span class="underline">..... is judicial updating,which can be unsettled and refought at lower cost in subsequent periods.</span>

==T--Vehicles== 

A. Interpretation- Transportation infrastructure includes 9 topic areas
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary 11</span> (The American Job Act: President Obama’s Plan To Create Jobs Now [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/legislative/reports/american-jobs-act.pdf]])
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(B) TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT- __.....____rail, including high-speed rail__. (ix) __Freight rail systems__. </span>

And- the only part of the topic they could meet is Mass Transit, but that is exclusively for public use
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Oxford Dictionary, No Date</span> ([[http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/public]])
<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>Definition of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">mass transit</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>noun <span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>[mass noun] North American<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>//public//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> transport, especially in an urban area.</span>

Finally, you may offer busing to public schools, public refers the entire community or the public as a whole
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Oxford Dictionary, No Date</span> ([[http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/public]])

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 16px;">adjective</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 16px;">1</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of or concerning the people as a </span>//whole//<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 16px;">: ..... withdraw from public life a public figure</span>

And- the affirmative is not topical, they must increase investment in infrastructure, not just the vehicles that use it
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">CFST 06</span>(Campaign for Sensible Transportation, collection of organizations for better transportation in the Santa Cruz area (“Aboard Transportation”, 2006, [[http://www.cfst.org/transportation.html]])

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Transportation or transport is the carrying ..... on roads, ramp meters, railroad switches, air traffic control, and etc.</span>


==Court Capital DA== 

A. Kennedy will strike out a middle ground now in Fisher v. Texas now—voting against Texas but saving Affirmative Action overall
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rostron 12</span> (Allen Rostron, 2012 (Professor of Law, University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Law, “AFFIRMATIVE ACTION, JUSTICE KENNEDY, AND THE VIRTUES OF THE MIDDLE GROUND,” Lexis/Nexis, Accessed 7/25/2012, rwg)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">While it thus seems likely that the .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">rather than by making race a factor in the individualized determinations about what school a particular student would attend. n29</span>
B. Decisions that anger powerful social movements will cause the Court to make decisions that realign themselves with that movement—if the Court angers Conservatives, they’ll do something to get back in their good graces
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Fallon 5</span> (Richard H. Fallon, Jr., Professor of Constitutional Law, Harvard Law School, April 2005
[“Legitimacy and the Constitution,” [[http://web.lexis-nexis.com/universe/document?_m=be00e4b6d189ddb647d9365044a5571c&_docnum=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkVb&_md5=7105aae1669b5f945e6a9318b42fc69d]], rwg)
__Among other things, the public's belief .....__ __influenced by popular political movements and by the evolving attitudes of their society.__

C. Conservatives want to overturn Affirmative Action—returning the US back to the Jim Crow era
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cho 5</span>(professor, DePaul University College of Law, 2005 (Sumi, University of Pennsylvania Journal of Constitutional Law, February, 2005, 7 U. Pa. J. Const. L. 809; Lexis)
__Affirmative action proponents must .....__ __attempt to re-enshrine whiteness as victimhood, thereby restoring whiteness to its full pre-civil rights, Jim Crow value.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> n127</span>




==Specieism K== 

A. The affirmative’s appeal for “human rights” is fundamentally human-centric —it perpetuates and legitimizes speciesism.
**Tittle ’98, Professor of Philosophy** [Peg, The Humanist View of Speciesism, [[http://tittle.humanists.net/humview.htm]]]
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">First, if humanism 'just' emphasized human-as-opposed-to-god, ..... would be justified on instrumental grounds. It seems then that humanism must condone sport hunting. </span>

B. We must deny the urge to align ourselves with their human-centric politics – it is an all or nothing question.
**Dell’Aversano ‘10** [Carmen, “the love whose name cannot be spoken: queering the human-animal bond” journal for critical animal studies, volume III issue 1 and 2, 2010]

__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">A real―oxymoronic community of difference</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">‖</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">, embracing not .....</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> would already have to be different from what we are, to have moved beyond ourselves. </span>__


C. Vote neg to reject the 1ac —maintaining the human-non-human binary dooms them to endless cycles of subordination and violence- this is also the site of protest that we should focus on
**Best ’07**, Associate Professor, Departments of Humanities and Philosophy University of Texas, El Paso [Steven, Charles Patterson, The Eternal Treblinka: Our Treatment of Animals and the Holocaust New York: Lantern Books, 2002, 280 pp]

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">While a welcome advance over the anthropocentric .....within the moral boundaries of welfarism and stewardship, which however was Judaic moral baggage official Chistianithy left behind.</span>

==Legitimacy DA== 

A. Health care decision has bolstered the legitimacy of the Court
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bannon, 7/23</span> (Brad, President of Bannon Communications Research, “Chief Justic John Roberts is Surprising Swing Vote in Affordable Healthcare Act,” Accessed 7/25/2012 at
[[http://thelegalbroadcastnetwork.squarespace.com/the-lbn-blog/2012/7/23/chief-justic-john-roberts-is-surprising-swing-vote-in-afford.html]], rwg)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">This decision reflects that today, it's not always a clear win on either side. __.....__</span> __Bannon feels it //has restored the credibility of the Court//, which had very little before this decision__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

B. Moving away from settled precedent undermines the legitimacy of the Court:
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Yoo 1</span>(John C. Professor of law at the University of California, 2001, [The University of Chicago Law Review, “In defense of the court’s legitimacy,” p. 75)
__How does the Court maintain__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">this</span>__legitimacy? .....__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to act against the popular will in favor of individual rights.</span>

C) Legitimacy key to rule of law, rights, and democracy.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Peretti 1999 </span>(Terri J., In Defense of a Political Court, Princeton University Press)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span class="underline">hould the Court </span><span class="Emphasis2">lose its legitimacy</span><span class="underline"> and, c.....</span> against the stamp of governmental paternalism and conformity.


==2NR== 

Amendment CP
Court Capital DA
Legitimacy DA

=Dubs vs. Pace CK--Critical Evacuation= 

==Elections DA (Round Three)== 

==T== 

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A. The affirmative is not topical – they increase investment in vehicles – they’re distinct from transportation infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">CFST 06 – Campaign for Sensible Transportation, collection of organizations for better transportation in the Santa Cruz area (“Aboard Transportation”, 2006, http://www.cfst.org/transportation.html)//RD</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Transportation or transport is the carrying of people and.....of the whole transport system including traffic lights/signals on roads, ramp meters, railroad switches, air traffic control, and etc.</span>


==Speaking for Others K== 


Politicizing those in poverty is wrong—the affirmative acts under the guise of political empowerment butinherently ends up utilizingdescriptions of poverty to accomplish their own development goals—this is an act of commodification and oppression.

Linda Martín <span style="font-size: 16px;">Alcoff</span>, Department of Philosophy at SyracuseUniversity.<span style="font-size: 16px;">1992, </span>Cultural Critique Winter 1991-92, “The Problem of Speaking For Others,” pp. 5-32

Feminist discourse is not the only site in which the .....<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">restricting the practice to speaking for groups of which one is a member.</span>






The affirmative is a perfect erasure of the other; they craft an image of the other in terms of their own systems of knowledge. This image inevitably overwhelms the other and denies them any sort of individual subjectivity.

Linda <span style="font-size: 16px;">Alcoff</span>, Professor of Philosophy, Women's Studies and Political Science, Director of Women’s Studies, Syracuse University, <span style="font-size: 16px;">1995</span>, “The Problem of Speaking for Others,” http://www.alcoff.com/content/speaothers.html.

This is partly the case because of what has been called the .....individual doubt, we are denying a reality of our experiential lives.9






The erasure of the other constitutes a form of spiritual genocide which represents the destruction of human dignity – it outweighs the aff.

Patricia <span style="font-size: 16px;">Williams</span>, Associate Professor of Law, The City University of New York Law School at Queens College, September <span style="font-size: 16px;">1987</span> University of Miami Law Review, 42 U. Miami L. Rev. 127

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> There are certain societies that define the limits of life .....</span><span class="Emphasis2"> eradicate its numbing pathology before it wipes out what precious little humanity we have left.</span>









Discourses of top-down reform that speak for others are trapped in an oppressive hierarchy of power. Don’t cast your ballot for the affirmative project of speaking for others. Instead use it to sap the power from their discourse to allow the others to speak for themselves.

Michel <span style="font-size: 16px;">Foucaultand</span> Gilles <span style="font-size: 16px;">Deleuze</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">1972</span> Libcom.org, “Intellectuals and Power: A Conversation Between Michel Foucault and Gilles Deleuze,” http://libcom.org/library/intellectuals-power-a-conversation-between-michel-foucault-and-gilles-deleuze

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">FOUCAULT: It seems to me that the political involvement of the ...... Isn't it because, in a general way, the penal system is the form in which power is most obviously seen as power?...</span>



==CP== 

Text – the President of the United States should establish an interagency commission which should publish a biennial transportation review with bipartisan congressional consultation. The interagency commission should recommend that the United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in evacuation transportation infrastructure in the United Statesas a part of its first biennial transportation review.


Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates

Charles H. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)

<span class="TitleChar">"Policy statements"</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">differ</span>//<span class="TitleChar">from substantive rules that carry .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Nonlegislative Rules and the Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).</span>



Commissions avoid politics – seen as bipartisan.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Straus and Glassman -12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Matthew Eric Glassman, Analyst on the Congress, Jacob R. Straus, Analyst on the Congress, Congressional Commissions: Overview, Structure, and Legislative Considerations, February 15, 2012, CRS Reports, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R40076.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Throughout American history, </span><span class="TitleChar">Congress has found .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> formed to take difficult decisions out of the hands of Congress, and are mostly ignored when they report their findings and recommendations. </span>


==2NR== 

Commissions CP
Elections DA