=Social Movements 1AC (Broke Rd. 2 vs Random Texas School)= 

==Contention 1: Status Quo== 

**A. Internet is spawning a multitude of social movements in 2012 – continued efforts to universalize access is key.**

**Rodriguez 2012**
[Giovanni, Forbes technology coorespondent. “Rules, Tools, and Public Spaces: What it Takes to Make a Movement.” January 17, 2012. https://www.google.com/search?sugexp=chrome,mod=11&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8&q=giovanni+rodreguez#hl=en&sclient=psy-ab&q=giovanni+rodriguez+forbes&oq=giovanni+rodriguez+forbes&aq=f&aqi=g1&aql=&gs_l=serp.3..0.13495.15064.0.15240.7.3.0.4.4.0.107.234.2j1.3.0...0.0.AkO5k23jRZg&pbx=1&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.r_qf.,cf.osb&fp=43ca00f83d9a1a7e&biw=1517&bih=666] BW

**B. The digital divide risks undermining social progress – much of the globe is still left without internet.**

**All Africa 5/17**
[African News Outlet (Cites key researchers.) “Nigeria: Bridging Digital Divide Through Broadband.” May 17, 2012. http://allafrica.com/stories/201205170746.html] BW

**Thus the Plan:**

**The Federal Communications Commission should increase its development of outer space by deploying a Viasat-1 satellite system in geosynchronous orbit and integrating it into the UN’s Broadband Commission for Digital Development for the purpose of meeting UN’s Millennium Development Goals. We allocate through the Universal Service Fund. We’ll clarify, just ask.**

==**Contention 2: Solvency**== 

**A. Mobile broadband is key – returns outweigh initial cost.**

**Johnson 10**
[Malcolm Johnson is Director of the Telecommunication Standardization Bureau at the Information Technology Union . Broadband - Universal access: A catalyst for global development. European Communications. 04 August, 2010]

**B. Viasat-1 is one of the world’s most powerful satellites – it can handle a global load and its 400 million dollahs.**

**Matthews 2009**
[William, staff writer for defense news. “ TSAT Replacement? ” July 20, 2009.] BW

**C. The UNDD is a fantastic arbiter – ambitious goals ensure global network integration.**

**Huffington Post 2011**
[“U.N.'s Broadband Commission For Digital Development Sets Target To Connect Poor To High-Speed Internet.” Oct. 25, 2011. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/10/25/united-nations-broadband_n_1031028.html] BW

==Contention 3: Poverty== 

**A. Internet Access is officially a human right – welcome to the 21st century.**

**LA Times 2011**
["United Nations Report: Internet Access Is a Human Right - Latimes.com."Politics, National, California, Washington, Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, John McCain, Republican, Democrat, President, Election - Top of the Ticket - Latimes.com. 3 June 2011. Web. 13 July 2011. <http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/technology/2011/06/united-nations-report-internet-access-is-a-human-right.html>.]

**B. Especially in the face of inequality, protecting human rights is key to human survival.**

**Copelon 99**
[Rhonda, Professor, Law, CUNY, “The Indivisible Framework of International Human Rights,” NEW YORK CITY LAW REVIEW, 1998/1999, p. 71-72.]

**C. The question of broadband for the impoverished is one that is often ignored – the disconnect from the global sphere silences and marginalizes them, creating social dichotomies between different racial and income groups.**

**Dunbar 5/14**
[John Dunbar is the former director of the Media and Broadband Project at American University’s Investigative Reporting Workshop. “The Growing Broadband Divide.” May 14, 2012. http://www.spotlightonpoverty.org/ExclusiveCommentary.aspx?id=04d7d5b3-937d-4b6a-8dce-7ef91eaf48b3] BW

**D. Our obligation comes to poverty first – every four days of structural violence is equal in magnitude to a Hiroshima.**

**Gilman 2000**
[Robert, President of Context Institute, “Structural Violence.” 2000 http://www.context.org/ICLIB/IC04/Gilman1.htm] BW

**E. Broadband is critical to solve the harms poverty – bridges the gap of social inequality.**

**BCDD 2010**
[ITU and UNESCO set up the Broadband Commission for Digital Development in response to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon’s call to step up UN efforts to meet the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). “The Future Built on Broadband.” 2010. http://www.broadbandcommission.org/about/overview.aspx] BW

==**Contention 4: Environmentalism**== 

**A. Warming causes extinction independently -- the threshold is 2030.**

**Stein 8**
[David, science editor for The Canadian. “Global Warming Xtra: Scientists warn about Antarctic melting.” July 14, 2008.] BW

**B. That outweighs nuke war – timeframe and magnitude.**

**Scheffran 2008**
[Jurgen Scheffran, Adjunct Associate Professor of Political & Atmospheric Science @ the University of Illinois, May/June 2008. Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, Vol. 64, No. 2] BW

**C. Universal broadband causes a reduction in carbon emissions by 1 billion tons in ten years.**

**Rintels 8**
[Jonathan, President and Executive Director of the Center for Creative Voices in Media, “An Action Plan for America: Using Technology and Innovation to Address out Nation’s Critical Challenges,” Benton Foundation, http://www.ntia.doc.gov/broadbandgrants/comments/1EA6.pdf]

**D. But solving warming is more than just eliminating carbon emissions – it’s about overarching social change.**

**McLaughlin 1993**
[Andrew, assoc. prof. philosophy @ CUNY, Regarding Nature: Industrialism and Deep Ecology, p. 199-200]

**E. The internet catalyses environmental localism – creates an environmentally conscious society.**

**Horton 2006**
[Dave, PhD in sociology @ Lancaster University. “Local Environmentalism and the Internet.” Summer 2006.] BW

==**Contention 5: The Role of the Ballot**== 

**A. Nuclear war should not be evaluated – the threat of war is what causes structural, systemic violence.**

**Chapman 2005**
[Clarke Chapman, chair of the department of religion and philosophy at Moravian College. “The God of Peace: Toward a Theology of Nonviolence.” July 28, 2005. http://www.johndear.org/pdfs/from_violence.pdf] BW

**B. Fostering democratic freedom creates individual agency which allows us to check government power –this prevents institutional forms of state sanctioned violence.**

**Rummel 94**
[Rudolph, Nobel Peace Prize winner for research on democracy, “Death by Government.” 1994.] BW

=New Econ Adv (Replaced the Poverty Adv.)(Broke Rd. 4 Salpointe Catholic)= 

==Contention 3: Economy== 

**A. The global economy is facing economic downturn.**

**Associated Press 6/10**
[June 10, 2012. http://www.iol.co.za/business/features/global-economy-shudders-as-slowdowns-hit-all-corners-1.1315455]

**B. Economic collapse causes a plethora of structural issues, including pollution, crime, sickness, famine, AIDS and war.**

**Silk 1993**
[Leonard, Prof of Economics @ Pace University, Foreign Affairs, Winter Volume 72, November 1, pg. 167.]

**C. Universal broadband causes massive GDP growth and energy dependence due to market integration – jumpstarts the global economy.**

**Vestberg and Toure 2012**
[President and Chief Executive Officer, Ericsson Chair of the Broadband Commission Working Group on Climate Change & Secretary General International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Vice Co-Chair of the Broadband Commission. “The Broadband Bridge.” March 2012. P. 4]

**E. Economic globalization solves war.**

**Copley News Service 99**
[staff, December 1, 1999]

**D. Broadband connects individuals to an 8 trillion dollar global economy – solves competitiveness.**

**Reuters 10/12**
[“FCC unveils new broadband access program.” October 12, 2011. http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/13/us-media-fcc-idUSTRE79C02Z20111013]

=2AC Impact Mitigation (Thanks Eric and TIffany)= 

**A. Risk and probability:**

**1. Human nature elevates small problems even when “There is no danger of major, cataclysmic war.”**

**Fettweis, Assistant Professor in the Political Science at Tulane University, 2006**
(Christopher J., strategist for two year at the US Naval War College, “A Revolution in International Relation THeory: Or What if Mueller Is Right?” International Studies Review, pp. 667-697)

**2. [insert indict]**

**B. Magnitude: “Even in the most extreme case there would remain... about nine-tenths of the world’s population...”**

**Martin**, PhD in theoretical physics, associate professor in Science, Technology and Society at the University of Wollongong, **1990**

**C. Timeframe: “If nuclear weapons are used in the next 15-20 years... Global nuclear disarmament [will follow].”**

**The Atlantic Council 2008**
[a non-partisan network of leaders and diplomats who aim to bring ideas to power and to give power to ideas, 2008. The Atlantic Council; 10/20/08; “Global Trends 2025: A Transformed WOrld”;http://www.acus.org/publication/global-trends-2025-transfromed-world]

=What they ran= 

__Rd. 2 vs. "Small Texas School You've never Heard Of" (Won Both Ballots)__
1nc- Election Politics, Extra-T, Capitalism K, and something else
2ac- Case defense, no new in the two
2nr- Election Politics, Extra-T, Cap (lol)
2ar-No new in the two was leveraged in the impact calc when deciding how to framework their arguments since they had 3 different advocacies

__Rd. 4 vs. Salpointe Catholic ?? (Won Both Ballots)__
1nc-Transhumanism K (Cyborgs,) EU Relations, Case Defense
2nr-Eu Relations, Case defense

__Rd. 6 vs. Sanger ?? (Won Both Ballots)__
1nc- Carbon Sequestration Adv CP, LOST Politics, Obama Re-election Politics, Case Defense
2nr- Lost, Obama, Case