You can e-mail either Lucy Shen @ [[mailto:iluvlulu1221@gmail.com|iluvlulu1221@gmail.com]] or Navin Gopaul at [[mailto:gopauln@bxscience.edu|gopauln@bxscience.edu]] for full text cites


<span style="color: #0000ff;">**Neg cites being updated ASAP [send an e-mail if you want a quicker reply]**</span>


=Neg= 


==Topicality== 

A. Interpretation - <span class="Underline">Substantial in the context of development is 6.9% or $10.9 billion</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AAAS, 02</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (American Association for the Advancement of Science, “House Boosts NASA Request, Adds Earmarks and Outer Planets Missions,” October 16, 2002 from </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.aaas.org/spp/rd/nasa03h.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On October 9, already nine days into fiscal year (FY) 2003, the House Appropriations Committee finally drafted an FY 2003 VA-HUD appropriations bill that would provide </span>__a substantial increase for R&D in__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (</span>__NASA__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">). The Senate drafted its version of the bill in July, but the full Senate has not approved it yet. The House would provide NASA with a total budget of $15.3 billion in FY 2003, $398 million or 2.7 percent more than FY 2002. This would exceed the Administration’s request of $15.0 billion and the Senate’s appropriation of $15.2 billion. In the House plan, NASA’s R&D funding</span> __would rise 6.9 percent for a total of $10.9 billion__**,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">including a 13.6 percent boost in the key Science, Aeronautics and Technology (SAT) account to $9.1 billion (see </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.aaas.org/spp/rd/nasa03h.htm#tb|Table]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">). Both the House and the Senate would go along with NASA’s request to shift money from the International Space Station project to NASA’s other R&D programs, and the House would add $117 million in congressionally designated projects, $105 million for a Pluto </span><span class="grame" style="font-size: 8pt;">mission,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and $40 million for a </span><span class="spelle" style="font-size: 8pt;">Europa</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> mission. Until the NASA budget becomes final, the agency is operating at FY 2002 funding levels under a series of continuing resolutions (temporary appropriations bills). </span>
**B. Violation- the aff increases space development by less than 6.9% or invests less than $10.9 billion** 
**C. Voting Issue-**
**1. Limits- allowing insubstantial affs unlimits the topic and justifies affs that develop single telescopes or launch individual satellites- the topic is already huge and we can’t be prepared to debate every minute aff**
**2. Ground- they can spike out of our spending, politics disads and tradeoff disads by saying the plan is too small to be perceived**
**Topicality is a voter for fairness and education**

==Disads== 

====**Cybersecurity Politics Scenario<span style="color: #008080;"> [From Lakeland]</span>**==== 
**Nows a key time—Cybersecurity bill will pass**
**__<span class="BoldUnderline">Network World 2/16</span>__** [[http://www.networkworld.com/community/node/79835]] Accessed March 1, 2012. L//Shen.
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Earlier this week, </span><span class="BoldUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee (HSGAC) introduced a cybersecurity bill... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">specially in light of the ever more ominous cybersecurity threats we face.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 15px;">[Link] </span>


**Capital’s key – the __strategy discussion__ is divisive**

**__<span class="BoldUnderline">Fitzgerald ’11</span>__** (Sandy. [[http://www.mobiledia.com/news/113356.html%2010/21/11|http://www.mobiledia.com/news/113356.html 10/21/11]] )

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Cyber-security is a major worldwide issue</span>


**Cyberattacks cause extinction**


**__<span class="BoldUnderline">Fritz ‘9</span>__** [Jason, researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, former Army officer and consultant, and has a master of international relations at Bond University, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” July, http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons. Specifically, this research will use open........</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">and</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">cyber terrorism could be enough to launch nuclear weapons on its own.</span>__