[[toc]]
==<span class="s6">Kritiks</span>== 
===<span class="s6">Security</span>=== 

====**<span class="s6">1NC</span>**==== 

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The 1AC create a never ending chain of threats, creating a sense of inevitable securitization of its architecture and infrastructure. We must attempt to break down and reject forms of security discourse</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grondin 4</span>**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(David, Assistant Professor, Member of the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Ph.D., Political Science (International Relations and American Studies), Université du Québec à Montréal, Montréal, 2008. M.A., International Relations, University of Toronto, Toronto, 2001. B.A., American History, Université du Québec à Montréal, Montréal, 2000. “Rethinking the political from a Poststructualist Stance” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ieim.uqam.ca/IMG/pdf/rewriting_national_security_state.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Neorealist and neoclassical</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> …..</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> are generated 18.</span>__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Vote neg to reject the affirmatives flawed security discourse as a prior action to policy action. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheeseman and Bruce 96</span>**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Graeme, Senior Lecturer at New South Wales, and Robert, editor, widespread author on security, Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This goal is pursued ….. them, and why?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Thus the alternative:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We should reject the representations of the 1ac. Analysis of the way the affirmative represents space is a prerequisite to political engagement and agency. Only through an analysis of representations can we open the space for an ethical relationship to politics. The enframing of the politics of outer space is a prior question to affirmatives a solvency.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Doty 96 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Political Science at ASU, 1996 [Roxanne Lynn, Imperial Encounters, pages 170-171]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">North-South relations ………</span> __in dominant representations__
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2NC Framework</span>**==== 

**Turn – Focus on roleplaying destroys political agency and education by forcing the subject to lose their sense of self, roleplaying as policy makers will make us see the world through the lens of political domination and subjugation legitimized by organizational authority, eroding our personal ethics. Vote negative to engage in an education that highlights the way the debate space actually influences the political – through DISCOURSE.**
__Reed__ et al, Director of Command and Leadership Studies, U.S. Army War College, __2005__ [Professor George E., Guy B. Adams, Professor, Public Affairs, University of Missouri-Columbia, Danny L. Balfour, Professor, Public and Nonprofit Administration, Grand Valley State University, “Putting Cruelty First: Abu Ghraib, Administrative Evil and Moral Inversion,” Paper prepared for presentation to “Ethics and Integrity of Governance: A Transatlantic Dialogue,” Leuven, Belgium, June 2-5, 2005 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://soc.kuleuven.be/io/ethics/paper/Paper%20WS5_pdf/Guy%20Adams.pdf, 24-28</span>]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Total guard aggression …….</span>__of administrative evil.__

**Turn-policy relevance destroys scholarship- cold war proves- makes effective policy making impossible**
<span class="Underline">**Xenakis 2**</span> [Christopher I.,Assistant Professor of Political Science, Tidewater Community College What Happened to the Soviet Union? 20<span class="Underline">**02**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">]</span>

<span class="Underline">Why did so many</span> ………<span class="Underline"> was as **deleterious** </span>


====**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2NC Perm</span>**==== 

**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Third-</span>__****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The permutation is just a test of the link and any risk of link takes out solvency—a complete rejection of the affirmatives mapping of space as a series of sovereign territories is key to alternative solvency</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jenny </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edkins</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, International Politics Professor at the University of Wales Aberystwyth, and Veronique Pin-Fat, Director the MA Human Rights in the Centre for International Politics at the University of Manchester, 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">04</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sovereign Lives: Power in Global Politics, p. 11-12</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">One potential form ……….sovereign power demands</span>

**Criticism of the narratives which justify securitizing politics is an ethical and political necessity—the permutation’s surface level politics systemically wards off critique.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Anthony </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burke</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, IR—University of New South Wales, 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence, p. 3-4</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">These frameworks are ……. wards off critique.</span>

**Inclusion of their initial framing guts permutation solvency—you must forget the 1AC.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roland </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bleiker</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, Rotary Centre of International Studies in Peace and Conflict Resolution, 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">01 </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Zen of International Relations, Ed. Chan, Mandeville, and Bleiker, p. 38-9</span>

The power to tell ……<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of real world politics</span>.

**The link takes out perm solvency—once the technostrategic frame has been accepted, attempts to go back inevitably fail—SDI proves our argument.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Felicity </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mellor</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, Science Communication—Imperial College, 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">“Colliding Worlds: Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space”, Social Studies of Science, 37(4), August, p. 499-502</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The civilian …….</span> from Brilliant Pebbles (Wall, 2001a; 2001b).


====<span style="line-height: 24px;">**2NC Link-China**</span>==== 

<span class="underline0">The discursive construction of the “China threat” posits China as a foil for US policy, depoliticizing military intervention and weaponization, and making conflict with China inevitable. Representing China as a threat is counter-productive and creates a self fulfilling prophecy. </span>
<span class="Underline">**Pan 4**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Chengxin, Dept, of Poli Sci and Int. Rel’ts, Australian National University, //Alternatives: Global, Local, Political//, Vol. 29, No. 3, p. 315)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The discursive construction ……..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> "spy plane" incident of 2001.</span>

====**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">2NC Link-Russia</span>**==== 
**Depicting Russia as a threat turns the world into an item that must be defended --- fueling a global drive to eliminate danger**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jæger 00</span> (Øyvind, Norwegian Institute of International Affairs and the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute, “Securitizing Russia: Discurisve Practices of the Baltic States”, http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The Russian war on ………the prime external enemy. </span>

====**2NC Link-Environment**==== 
**Their statistics on the environment just serve as an illusion to coax populations into egotistical aspirations, such as global control**

**__Luke ’99__** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Timothy, Prof Political Science at Virgina Tech, “Placing Ecocritique in Context: Technology, Democracy and Capitalism as Environment” [[http://www.cddc.vt.edu/tim/tims/Tim653.htm]] </span>

When put into practice…….. by technology/democracy/capitalism.


====**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2NC Realism</span>**==== 

**The methodology of threat construction fails and causes global catastrophe—creates a self fulfilling prophecy of escalation.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">James Der Derian, IR—Brown, 2006</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">“An Accident Waiting to Happen”, Harvard International Review, 27(3), Fall, http://hir.harvard.edu/ predicting-the-present/national-security</span>
However, the discourse ……..intended from accidental events.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Realism ignores evolution and human action</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peterson and Runyan 99</span>** ( Poli-SCi at U of AZ, Prof @ wright State of Women’s studies,//Global Gender Issues,// 99, p. 227-228, ET)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Avowedly modernist in …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> are beyond debate.</span>

====**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2NC Impact</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rather than engage in this cycle of securitization and fear driven politics we should affirm a view of life that incorporates danger a constitutive part of our experience. Only the affirmation of life as uncertainty and danger can foster a meaningful existence and affirm a value to life outside of biological survival.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Der Derian,** Professor of political science at Brown U, 1995 [James, On Security]</span>

In the last analysis, "……..by a god." [[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note40#note40|40]]

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>**==== 

**Infrastructure projects are enablers of consumption that produce inequality – the role of the ballot should be envisioning new ways of relating to political ideology in order to shift to a more sustainable form of market development**
**Connolly 12** (William E, Krieger-Eisenhower Professor at Johns Hopkins University where he teaches political theory, "Steps toward an Ecology of Late Capitalism," Theory and Event Vol. 15 Issue 1, 2012, Muse)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 3. Today, perhaps </span>__the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …..l</span>__and citizen activism.__


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Cap causes endless genocide and spurs violent resistance that kills millions in the name of resource expansion.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Jalata 11 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">- </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14.66px;">Professor of Sociology & Global Studies</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;">(Asafa, January 24th 2011, “Terrorism from Above and Below in the Age of Globalization”, p.1-4)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14.66px;">As capitalism developed</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;"> in Western Europe, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14.66px;">..............</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;"> this issue from a narrow perspective by ignoring what I argue to be the reality: that terrorism is a social cancer for all human groups affected by it.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Alt – vote negative to reject the flawed capitalist nature of the affirmative.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">The alternative is the only way out – we need to analyze the flaws in the system to find the preconditions for movements away from capitalism and its inevitable collapse – this is key to develop a real political strategy</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Carroll 10 – </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14.66px;">*founding director of the Social Justice Studies Program at the University of Victoria</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;">(William, “Crisis, movements, counter-hegemony: in search of the new,” Interface 2:2, 168-198, dml)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;">In the most general terms and at the highest level of abstraction, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14.66px;">..... to their subordination</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;"> (De Leon, Desai and Tuğal 2009: 216; Joseph 2002).</span>

**Federal infrastructure projects are __situated__ within history as a tool to __integrate__ both the nation and the world into the __global capitalist order__ of the US – This create an __imperial ideology__ that justifies the __ruthless expansion__ of capital into foreign markets and causes __short-termism__ causes __environmental collapse__**
**Smith 8** (Jason Scott, assistant professor of history at the University of New Mexico, "The New Deal Order," Enterprise and Society Vol. 9 Num 3 2008, Muse)
__By using the__ **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">lens</span>__**__……….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> public works projects.[[http://muse.jhu.edu.go.libproxy.wfubmc.edu/journals/enterprise_and_society/v009/9.3.smith.html#f14|14]]</span>

**<span class="Author-Date" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Terminal Impact of this drive for Capital by the affirmatives Military Industrial Complex is widespread exploitation, racism and Nuclear War</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Webb, 2004</span>** (Sam, masters in econ at uconn, “War, Capitalism, and George W. Bush.” <http://www.pww.org/article/view/4967/1/207/O/> L.F.)</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Capitalism** **was never a warm, cuddly, stable social system**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**.........****.** </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Whether that occurs depends**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">in large measure</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**on the outcome of** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">political </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**struggle**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Their attempt to control orbital space constructs it as a zone of inclusive exclusion ripe for economic and political exploitation—the affirmative is nothing more than a form of primitive accumulation which serves to solidify the formation of a global capitalist sovereignty.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Raymond **Duvall,** Political Science—University of Minnesota, and Jonathan Havercroft, Political Science—University of Oklahoma, 20**08**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">“Taking sovereignty out of this world: space weapons and empire of the future,” Review of International Studies, 34, 755–775</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The doctrine of space control ...., the global capitalist state.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A2: Perm do both</span>**==== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. **The permutation will essentially be viewed as an instance of reform** – combining policy with our radical rejection of capitalism can ONLY function as an instance of reform. Furthermore, this attempt at reformation of capitalism only humanizes the system of obfuscates a focus on the structural violence inherent in the system.</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Mészáros 11</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">(István, Professor Emeritus – University of Sussex, “The Only Viable Economy”, 6-17, http://monthlyreview.org/2007/04/01/the-only-viable-economy)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The incompatibilities of the two systems … in accord with its innermost nature.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">5. **Only a radical rejection** **of capitalism in the specific context of the affirmative can create a universality that contests the hegemony of capital.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Zizek 1999</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> (Slavoj, The Ticklish Subject, page 91-92, gjm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">With regard to the opposition between abstract and concrete Universal­ity, this means …</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> urination, while the speculative reading is also able to discern in it the much higher function of insemination (i.e. precisely 'conception' as the biological anticipation of concept).</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">6. **Permutation allows for cooption** – the incorporation of local narratives only serves to supplement capitalist hegemony rather than contest it – the very combination of plan with alternative sustains the capitalist hegemony over discourse</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Zizek 2008</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> In Defense of Lost Causes page 38</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The "worldless" character of capitalism is linked to this hegemonic …</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> is to produce a symbolic fiction (a truth) that intervenes into the Real, that causes a change within it.</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">29</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Framework</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. Historical Materialism must come first as it predetermines the subject’s consciousness and the very possibilities of reflective thinking.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Marx, 1859</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Karl, A Contribution to the Critique of the Political Economy – </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1859/critique-pol-economy/preface.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">) IG</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In the social production of their existence, men inevitably enter into ….__within the framework of the old society.__</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">2. Their truth claims are trapped in a capitalist ontology which predetermines how knowledge is produced</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Schiwy</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> PhD Candidate in Romance Studies at Duke, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">& Ennis</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> PhD Candidate in Lit at Duke, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">2002</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Freya and Michael, Nepantla: Views from the South 3.1 project muse</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The essays </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">gathered in this dossier respond to issues raised during the …. are efforts to think about epistemology //from// the Andes.</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://proxy.lib.wayne.edu:2128/journals/nepantla/v003/3.1schiwy.html#endnote:1|1]]</span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">AT: Cap Inevitable</span>**</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The Alternative is to Vote Negative as an act of Non-Violent Protest of the Military Industrial Complex.** **Non-violent refusal to participate causes the system to come toppling down. Claims that Capitalism is inevitable is just an excuse to do nothing to promote alternatives.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Martin 01,</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">(Brian, Associate Professor of Science, Technology and Society at the University Of Wallongong, “Nonviolence Versus Capitalism” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">[[http://www.wri-irg.org/system/files/nvcpall.pdf]]</span><span class="CitesChar" style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">)</span>


<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nonviolent action is the most </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">….</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> worse, depending on what people do about it.</span>



**Their representation of capitalism as an unalterable reality is precisely what creates its inevitability—the first step is to remember that economies are localized, historically dependent social formations that can be changed**.
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gibson-Graham, 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> (Julie Graham and Katherine Gibson, Graham is Professor of Geography, Associate Department Head for Geography, B.A., Smith College, Ph.D., Clark University, 1984 , Gibson has a BSc (Hons) (Sydney), MA, PhD (Clark), (Pen Name is J.K. Gibson-Graham), ,“A Postcapitalist Politics”, p. 53-54)</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Why has Economy become an everyday </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">term …</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> and dynamic mechanism" known as "the economy," and this representation is difficult to dislodge.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cap=War</span>**==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Capitalism is the root cause of war.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Carchedi 6</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">(Guglielmo, Senior Researcher in the Department of Economics and Econometrics at the University of Amsterdam, Rethinking Marxism, Volume 18, Number 1, January, “The Fallacies of Keynesian Policies,” p. 77-78, ebsco)

If neither civilian nor military Keynesian policies … Keynesian policies for the above-mentioned reasons.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Cap=Econ collapse</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Capitalism structurally guarantees repeated economic crises.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Foster 8 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">(John Bellamy, author of Marx's Ecology: Materialism and Nature and an editor of Monthly Review. Interview by Renfry Clarke from GLW, http://www.greenleft.org.au/node/39387)

We talk typically about </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">economic growth</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">… to be a world </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">crisis of capitalism</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, and this </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">is </span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">built into the system</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">.</span>


====**Cap Degrades environment**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Capitalism is the root cause of environmental degradation.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Bello 8 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">(Walden, professor of sociology and public administration at the University of the Philippines , “Will Capitalism Survive Climate Change?”, April, http://www.robnewman.com/will.html)

Also, it is increasingly evident that the trade-off for more …. regime on the grounds that it is a developing country.</span>


====**Ethical Obligation**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">You have an ethical obligation to reject capitalism – its violence is concealed and naturalized by everyday politics.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Zizek and Daly 4 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">(Slavoj, professor of philosophy at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana, and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek, pg 14-16)

There is a further potential danger. This concerns especially orthodox trends in … today is towards a kind of political boutiquism that is readily sustained by postmodern forms of consumerism and lifestyle.</span>

</span>
===<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Fem K</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">1NC</span>**==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**A. The discourse of the 1AC relies on a masculine and securitized paradigm of military dominance.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Griffin 9</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;"> (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-75.)</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The US is,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;"> of course, </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">heavily......</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;">dubious characters' such as, perhaps, 'bounty hunters' (2004: 10).</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**B. This gendered security discourse causes inevitable violence and war that turns the case. Rejecting the 1AC opens up space for a feminist reconceptualization of security.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shepherd 2007</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;">[Laura J., Department of Political Science and International Studies, University of Birmingham, “Victims, Perpetrators and Actors’ Revisited:1 Exploring the Potential for a Feminist Reconceptualisation of (International) Security and (Gender) Violence,” //BJPIR//: 2007 VOL 9, 239–256]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;">As Spike Peterson and Jacqui True comment, ‘......I am more than happy to be unreasonable, and I am in excellent company.</span>
===<span class="s6">Predictions Bad</span>=== 

====**<span class="s6">1NC</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Navigating the highways of policy requires you to FIRST decide where you want to go.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The affirmative scenarios lock in a future that sustains the status quo, trading-off with broader visions of transformation.</span>**
**//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Voting negative imagines transportation policy-making that can adapt to the complex uncertainties paved over by the 1AC.</span>//**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Inayatullah 2003</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">[Sohail Inayatullah, Prof at Tamkang U, “Alternative Futures of Transport” //foresight// 5.1: 34-43] Inayatullah 1</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 5pt;">Given the reality ………. the future of tomorrow</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.</span>


**The 1AC maps a linear path from A to B to C to D, paving over the complex interactions between their dozens of predictions—But THE WHOLE IS MORE THAN THE SUM OF ITS PARTS**
**Ramalingam et al 2008**
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">[Ben, Senior Research Associate at the Overseas Development Institute, and Harry jones at ODI, "Exploring the science of complexity: Ideas and Implications for development and humanitarian efforts" [[http://www.odi.org.uk/resources/docs/833.pdf]] ] RJ 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Concept 4: Nonlinearity5 ‘... …………..</span>__<span style="font-family: MetaNormal-Roman;">in interconnected ways</span>__<span style="font-family: MetaNormal-Roman; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Impact—Existential risk is systemic, not a flash of instability to be predicted and controlled. The 1AC brackets the full complexity of crisis and the value questions behind their scenarios—Preventing the adaptation and resilience necessary for a viable future.</span>**

**Mangalagiu 2011**
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">[Diana Mangalagiu, Prof of Strategy at Smith School of Enterprise and Environment-University of Oxford “Risk and resilience in times of globalization” An emerging research program for Global Systems Science: Assessing the state of the art, 10/4/11, [[http://www.gsdp.eu/]]] Mangalagiu 1</span>

__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Times;">The</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 5pt;"> recent </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Times;">financial crisis </span>____<span style="font-family: Times;">………….</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 5pt;"> ambiguity and ignorance</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.</span>

===Lacan=== 

====**1NC (Policy)**==== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Affirmative is a healthy dose of ideology- instead of coming to terms with the irrational nature of the international relations they only attempt to secure the international arena making sure nothing ever really changes. Unfortunately their hope sustained in security guarantees is misplaced as ideology only operates by never fulfilling its promise of security the result is only the creation of more threats to be secured by the West</span>**
**Daly, 2004,** (Glyn, Risking the Impossible, [[http://www.lacan.com/zizek-primer.htm]]) SRM

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Zizek has been ……</span> __things actually are.__

**The Threat of catastrophe utilized by the Affirmative in order to justify passage of the plan is not a break from Status Quo but instead is the sustaining force behind today’s biopolitics. Life lived under this constant threat of annihilation is a life lived in a permanent state of emergency. Life deprived of the substance that makes it worth living.**

**Zizek 2003**, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Slavoj, Prof of Sociology @ Inst. For Sociology Ljubljana Univ, __The Puppet and the Dwarf__, 94-99) </span>

<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Insofar as “death” ….. __higher Goal is__.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our alternative is to institutionalize the Lack and design politics around doubt and uncertainty. This will result in more radically democratic politics and is the starting point for the aff solvency.</span>**(alt solvency card – reference a lot)
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stavrakakis, 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yannis, //Lacan and the Political,// Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages p 96-98). </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to my ……..</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">transformed ethical framework.</span>__

====**1NC (K)**==== 

**Infinite advocacies on behalf of the excluded are so overhelming that they are designed to fail. Completely unreasonable demands are therefore empty gestures in the service of the existing order.**
**Zizek, 99** (Slavoj, __The Ticklish Subject__, p.229-230, plus footnote 54)

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The pathetic assertion `…….</span> endorses its reproduction.**</span>

**<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 12pt;">The affirmative’s utopian vision of a peaceful global community will be impossible to realize—necessitating the scapegoating and elimination of the other. Lacanian political intervention is the only way out. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stavrakakis, 99</span>** (Yannis, //Lacan and the Political,// Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages 99-100).

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our age is ………</span>__<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;"> a highly problematic area (seminar of 18 June 1958).</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our alternative is to institutionalize the Lack and design politics around doubt and uncertainty. This will result in more radically democratic politics and is the starting point for the aff solvency.</span>**(alt solvency card – reference a lot)
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stavrakakis, 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yannis, //Lacan and the Political,// Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages p 96-98). </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to my reading,………</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> transformed ethical framework.</span>__

===Heidegger=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**Transportation technology’s fixation with speed manipulates nature draining it of value**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nadis,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> History professor at California State University, 20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">06</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Fred, “</span>//The Enchantments of Technology (review)”,// <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Technology and Culture, Project Muse)</span>
¶ In this intriguing synthesis………<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> would be ideal readers.¶ </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This technological framing poses the world as standing reserve and removes the essence of humanity</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Idhe,</span> Professor of Philosophy and the Director of the Technoscience Research Group at Stony Brook, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span> (Don, //Heidegger’s Technologies//, Project Muse, Pg 54-55

Now the concept …….regarding humanity’s future.
**That outweighs extinction – it’s better to die than to live as slaves to technological thought**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rojcewicz, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Philosophy at Point Park University</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 06</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Executive Director of the Simon Silverman Phenomenology Center at Duquesne University, cotranslator of Heidegger’s work. Richard, The Gods and Technology: A Reading of Heidegger, page 140-141)</span>

Heidegger now launches ……….<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> make them slaves. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Our alternative is to suspend technological thought.** </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Questioning is a pre-requisite to effective action and is the only way to restore Being</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Babich,</span> Professor of Philosophy Fordham University, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span> (Babette, “Heidegger’s Philosophy of Sicence and the Critique of Calculation: Reflective Questioning, Gelassenheit, and Life”, //Heidegger on Science// edited by Trish Glazebrook, Project Muse, Pg 165-166

What Heidegger means ……<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> consider alternative solutions.</span>


===**Foucault**=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**First, freedom of mobility is a ruse.**
**Transportation infrastructure produces docile bodies who do not possess the potential for mobility but are compelled to never stop moving in order to perform quotidian functions. Frictionless movement becomes a death march of mobility.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sager 2006 [Tore, Department of Civil and Transport Engineering, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, “Freedom as Mobility: Implications of the Distinction between Actual and Potential Travelling,” Mobilities, Vol. 1, No. 3]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Bauman (2000) emphasises …..</span> one rests in peace<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>

**Second, transportation infrastructure individuates consumption through social diffusion, ramping up demand, locking in mobility for the affluent reproduces domination and exclusion from vital social functions. Technologies of efficiency police the population through the super-panopticon of perpetual surveillance.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Andrejevic 2003 [Mark, Fairfield University, “Monitored Mobility in the Era of Mass Customization,” Space and Culture, Vol. 6, No. 2]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Surely </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">this dramatic …….</span> but on its certainty<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

**Third, the expert discourses that circulate around transportation produce the normative travelling body. The affirmative disciplines the citizen into an efficient consumer while excluding bodies not fit for transit. Mobility planning manages micro-practices in order to secure the economic function of the city.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bonham 6 [Jennifer, The Editorial Board of the Sociological Review “Transport: disciplining the body that travels”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The disciplining of ……</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">present-day conduct of travel.</span>

**Fourth, the highway and the rail-line are the concentration camps of speed. Through the domination of time, transportation acts as the last fortification of the states ability to conduct war. The continued appropriation of space by technologies of speed makes the Earth into a battlefield.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Virilio, Curator of the Museum of the Accident, in ‘5 |Paul, Negative Horizon, Pg. 58-9|</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deterritorialization inaugurates the ……</span> places in the world'<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Fifth, ensuring the health of the social body is the underside of the power to mobilize populations for war. Global extinction would not be possible without the unquestioned biopolitics of the 1AC.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Foucault, in ’76 [Michel, The History of Sexuality, pg. 136-137]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the classical …….</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">phenomena of population</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Last, the alternative is a rejection of the affirmative’s dangerous biopolitics that justify the investment in transportation infrastructure.**
**And, our intervention into the aff’s regime of truth challenges the hegemony of modernity’s technological thought and drives for control. The alternative is a necessary first step to re-build the world brink-by-brick.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edkins, Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales at Aberystwyth, in ‘6 [Jenny December 2006, “The Local, the Global and the Troubling,” Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy, Vol. 9 No. 4, pg. 499-511]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Of course, 'this regime ……</span>, brick by brick**//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>//**


===Virilio=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**The 1AC is a pointless affirmation of speed which inevitably lead to failure-rejection of speed is key** (This card is 10 pages long)
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Virilio, Curator of the Museum of the Accident, in ‘5 |Paul, Negative Horizon, Pg. 39-49|</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Man is the passenger ……..!</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For it feeds on fire, hate, and speed.</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]