=HSR Neg= 
===U.S. and Europe and too different for HSR to be successfully replicated=== 
**McKendrick, ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- independent analyst who tracks the impact of information technology on management and markets. He is the author of the SOA Manifesto and has written for Forbes, ZDNet and Database Trends & Applications (Joe, “High-Speed Rail Helps the European economy; Can it Help the US?”, smartplanet.com, 3/10/10, </span>[[http://www.smartplanet.com/blog/business-brains/high-speed-rail-helps-european-economy-can-it-help-the-us/5423)/AY|http://www.smartplanet.com/blog/business-brains/high-speed-rail-helps-european-economy-can-it-help-the-us/5423)//AY]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>__t__he impressive impact of high-speed rail across the European continent may not be seen as widely across North America<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
AND
up to a hundred miles in distance from urban or suburban cores.
===Failure to terminate existing policies undermines HSR=== 
**MK: Gilbert,; Perl, 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard Anthony. Transport Revolutions : Moving People and Freight Without Oil. New York, NY, USA: New Society Publishers,. p 239. http://site.ebrary.com/lib/umich/Doc?id=10397417&ppg=239 Copyright © 2010. New Society Publishers. All rights reserved.)</span>
Existing aviation and road development policies and programs that are not compatible with a shift away from oil-powered transport will have to be terminated,
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">termination contests are usually more bitter and harder to win than most policy adoption contests.”25</span>
===Lack of railway personnel to manage the system prevents solvency=== 
**U.S Department of Transportation April 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (http://www.fra.dot.gov/downloads/rrdev/hsrstrategicplan.pdf )(International data from: GAO report, High-Speed Passenger Rail (GAO-09-317); UIC High-Speed Department, “High-Speed Lines in the World” www.uic.asso.fr/uic/spip.php?article573; and Jane’s World Railways 2007-2008. International ridership data is from 2007, except for Germany and U.K., which are from 2005. Amtrak data from FY 2008; represents both NEC Regional (predecessor service began in 1969) and Acela services. “Train à grande vitesse” or “high-speed train.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lack of Expertise and Resources. </span>
AND
need to identify resources to support the new effort without diverting from their core operating and maintenance responsibilities.
===HSR would only divert a small number of passengers at best – nonpartisan study proves=== 
**NCPA 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (the National Center for Policy Analysis is a conservative think tank. “Calif. Rail Project Is High-Speed Pork” http://www.ncpa.org/sub/dpd/index.php?Article_ID=20001 Nov 4 2010) CANOVA</span>
__High-speed trains connecting major cities are a perfect example of wasteful spending__ __masquerading as a respectable social cause__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In reality, they would further burden already overburdened governments and drain dollars from worthier programs, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> With governments everywhere pressed for funds, how can anyone justify a program whose main effect will simply be to make matters worse?</span>
=== === 
===High speed rail can’t get cars off the road=== 
<span class="IntenseEmphasis1">O’Toole, ’09 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- American public policy analyst; senior fellow with the Cato Institute and author of The Best-Laid Plans: How Government Planning Harms Your Quality of Life, Your Pocketbook, and Your Future (Randal, “The High Cost of High-Speed Rail”, America Dream Coalition - Center for Economic Freedom Texas Public Policy Foundation, 8/09, [[http://www.americandreamcoalition.org/transit/HSRinTX.pdf)/AY|http://www.americandreamcoalition.org/transit/HSRinTX.pdf)//AY]]</span>

<span class="IntenseEmphasis1">The experiences of cities that have adopted these policies reveal two things. </span>
<span class="IntenseEmphasis1">AND</span>
The administration’s livability policies are likely to make America’s next housing bubble even worse than the recent one.
=== === 
===No major economic boom – job estimates assume freight rail and don’t account for increased taxpayer subsidies=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Staley 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of Urban Growth and Land Use Policy for Reason Foundation, (Sam, “Why High-Speed Rail Fails as a Jobs Program,” August 18 ,http://reason.com/archives/2009/08/18/why-high-speed-rail-fails-as-a)</span>
Of course, rail proponents argue that spending money now on high-speed rail is a long-term investment
AND
<span class="IntenseEmphasis1"> and it inevitably fails as a broad-based solution to the country's transportation challenges.</span>
===Stimulus cant increase GDP-Trade offs and no long term solvency=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">de[[http://reason.org/contrib/show/veronique-de-rugy| Rugy]] 10</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Ph.D. and MA in Economics from the University of Paris, senior research fellow at the [[http://mercatus.org/|Mercatus Center]] at George Mason University</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Veronique "Stimulus: Still Not Working!" Reason.org, 11/16/10, [[http://reason.org/news/show/stimulus-still-not-working)/AP|http://reason.org/news/show/stimulus-still-not-working)//AP]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are other reasons the stimulus bill has hurt rather than helped the economy. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;"> By trying to ease the pain, the administration may well have made the patient worse. </span>