[[toc]]
=Japan Navy (Edgemont)= 

==Naval Nationalism Turns for Brown Lightning== 

**TURN - THE PLAN SENDS THE SIGNAL OF U.S. WEAKNESS EMBOLDENING CHINESE NATIONALISTS**
**Richardson, 8/26/2010** (Michael, Visiting Senior Research Fellow at the Institute of South East Asian Studies, The Japan Times, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20100826mr.html)

The United States and South ….air power than the Yellow Sea.


**AND – THERE IS ONLY A RISK OF A TURN – NATIONALIST EXPECTATIONS HAVE ALREADY BEEN SOLIDIFIED, CHINA WONT BACK DOWN**
**Reuters, 8/31/2010** (“China Military Risks Treading On Policy Toes”, http://af.reuters.com/article/energyOilNews/idAFTOE67K01120100831?pageNumber=1&virtualBrandChannel=0)

China's military, emboldened and …. and Beijing's space plans.

==Naval Arms Race DA== 

**Continuing naval dominance is key to global stability – drawdowns cause our allies to militarize, spurring a naval arms race**
**McGrath 10** – Director of Consulting, Studies and Analysisat Delex Systems, Inc (5/6/2010, Bryan, “Debate: Do We Need 11 Carrier Groups: Yes”, Atlantic Council, http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/debate-do-we-need-11-carrier-groups-yes) MGM

Response: This is a reprise of an …. a challenge are conducted today.

**And – A naval arms race in Northeast Asia would guarantee catastrophic miscalculations.**
**Strait Times 9** (November 18, http://www.asianewsnet.net/news.php?id=8691&sec=3)

A naval arms race that ….of accidents and incidents at sea."


**And – These are the most probable scenarios for great-power nuclear escalation.**
**Dibb, 1** (Paul, Professor at the Australian National Universtiy, Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review, Winter, HTTP://WWW.NWC.NAVY.MIL/PRESS/REVIEW/2001/WINTER/ART2-W01.HTM)

The areas of maximum danger …. when confronted with major crises.

=Random Heg Stuff= 

==<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">**Heg Bad - US-China War - Michael McCutie cut these :D**</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;"> </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**US heg causes a US-China war and a rivalry**</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Kliman ’10** ( Dr. Daniel M. Kliman is a visiting fellow at the Center for a New American Security, where he contributes to the Asia-Pacific Security Program and other initiatives. He is also completing a book on how to navigate the rise of new power, America's Enduring Challenge: Maintaining International Order, <span style="color: #1a37ef;">[[http://www.cnas.org/node/4809|__http://www.cnas.org/node/4809__]]</span>, 8/4/10, DA: 8/11/10, MM) </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">__The emergence of new …. in a full-blown U.S.-China rivalry__. </span>

<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Extinction**</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Straits Times, 2000** [“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 25, LN, DA:8/12/10] </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat ….interview given to the Chinese press. </span>

==<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Heg Bad - Coordination Failures - also mccue...**</span>== 


<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**It’s empirically proven- US heg causes coordination failures- this accesses every impact**</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Kliman ’10** ( Dr. Daniel M. Kliman is a visiting fellow at the Center for a New American Security, where he contributes to the Asia-Pacific Security Program and other initiatives. He is also completing a book on how to navigate the rise of new power, America's Enduring Challenge: Maintaining International Order, <span style="color: #1a37ef;">[[http://www.cnas.org/node/4809|__http://www.cnas.org/node/4809__]]</span>, 8/4/10, DA: 8/11/10, MM) </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">__Another danger is the …. hallmark of good leadership__. </span>

==<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Heg Bad - Disease**</span>== 


<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Hegemony causes disease spread** </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Fidler 04** Professor of Law and Ira C. Batman Faculty Fellow, Indiana University School of Law Bloomington (David, “Fighting the Axis of Illness: HIV/AIDS, Human Rights, and U.S. Foreign Policy” Harvard Human Rights Journal, Vol 17, Spring 04) </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">The hegemony and human rights ….__mobility, and globalization.__</span>

<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Extinction** </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">John D. __**Steinbruner**__, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution, “Biological Weapons: A Plague Upon All Houses,” FOREIGN POLICY n. 109, Winter 1997/19__**98**__, pp. 85-96, ASP. </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">It is a considerable comfort ….__**f**__or the species as a whole. </span>

==<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Heg Bad - Power Wars**</span>== 


<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Hegemony causes extended deterrence break downs and nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">__**LAYNE**__ (Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M) __**’06**__ [Christopher, __The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to Present,__ Cornell University Press (Ithica), p. 169 wyo-tjc] </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">__Proponents of U.S. hegemony ….__ in Eurasian conflicts by its alliance commitments. </span>

===<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Heg Bad - Prolif**</span>=== 


<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**First, hegemony creates security vulnerabilities, increasing nuclear proliferation**</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**JERVIS** (Prof. Of Int’l Politics at Columbia) **’03** [Robert, “The Compulsive Empire”, Foreign Policy, Jul/Aug, p. asp wyo-tjc] </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">The United States is the strongest….might be in the Pentagon's gun sights. </span>

<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Second, new horizontal proliferation risks several scenarios for nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**TOTTEN** (Assoc. Professor at University of Arkansas) **’94** [Samuel, The Widening Circle of Genocide, p. 289 wyo-tjc] </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">There are numerous dangers inherent …. assistance of a renegade government. </span>







=South Korea= 

==Korean War== 


<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Kim Jong-il is rational and won’t risk suicidal war – risk of war is extremely low**</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Marshall 9 –** Asia Political Risk Correspondent (10/27/2009, Andrew, “Why it's sane for Kim Jong-il to be crazy”<span style="color: #1a37ef; font: 13.0px Arial;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE59Q0BE20091027|__http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE59Q0BE20091027__]]</span>) </span>

<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">For those who see ….him to throw away his best cards. </span>


<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**2. War won’t escalate –Empirics and experts**</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Strobel and Landay 5/25** – *Foreign affairs correspondent AND **Reporter (5/25/2010, Warren and Jonathan, “Will North Korea's saber rattling lead to war?”,** <span style="color: #1a37ef;">[[http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/05/25/94820/will-north-koreas-saber-rattling.html#ixzz0ycjuaAZf|__**http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/05/25/94820/will-north-koreas-saber-rattling.html#ixzz0ycjuaAZf**__]]</span>**) MGM**</span>

<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Still, Brown and other former top ….Korean presidential residence, the Blue House.**</span>


<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**3. Turn –No more provocations – deterrence is working. Also, war won’t escalate – empirics** </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">Interview with Admiral Willard 7/20 **– (7/20/2010, “Presenter: Pentagon Press Secretary Geoff Morrell, Commander, U.S. Pacific Command Adm. Robert Willard and a Senior Defense Official”,** <span style="color: #1a37ef;">[[http://www.defense.gov/transcripts/transcript.aspx?transcriptid=4657|__**http://www.defense.gov/transcripts/transcript.aspx?transcriptid=4657**__]]</span>**) MGM**</span>

<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Q And do you believe that ….** **attempting to change the behavior of North Korea.**</span>


==6 Party Talks== 


<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**No six party talks even after U.S. withdrawal – sunken South Korean ship prevents**</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific 10** (“South Korea says nuclear talks not possible if North linked to ship sinking”, 4/20/10, Accessed through LexisNexis, DA: 7/19/10) </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">SEOUL, April 20 (Yonhap) - The resumption ….its actions," he told the briefing. </span>

<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**North Korea enters six-party talks only to shift attention away from sunken South Korean ship – no real interest**</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Global Security Newswire ‘10** (“North Korea to Again Meet With U.N. Command”, 7/19/10, DA: 7/19/10, Online:<span style="color: #1a37ef; font: 13.0px Arial;">[[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100719_1830.php|__http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100719_1830.php__]]</span>) </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">Seoul's Unification Ministry wrote in a …. incident," he said in a television interview. </span>

<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**North Korea is developing nuclear weapons for its own sake – will never come to six-nation efforts**</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">Greg **Torode** is the Chief Asia Correspondent at South China Morning Post **09** (“A policy adrift; Despite its might, the US Navy is no match for Pyongyang's rust-bucket cargo fleet”, 6/24/09, South China Morning Post, Accessed through LexisNexis, DA: 7/19/10) </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">Mainland ports are far more likely to ….to give up its nuclear weapons." </span>


==<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Prostitution**</span>== 

<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Prostitution in South Korea is decreasing.** </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Dujisin ’09,** “Prostitution Thrives with US Military Presence, <span style="color: #1a37ef;">[[http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=47556|__http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=47556__]]</span>, Zoltan Dujisin, staff writer for IPS, July 7, 2009, DA: 8/9/10</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">There has been a reduction in prostitution ….them is difficult given they enjoy a special legal status since 1945. </span>

<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Prostitution down – crackdowns and training check.** </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Stars & Stripes ’10** “Prostitution crimes down among troops in S. Korea”, Ashley Rowland, September 26, 2008,<span style="color: #1a37ef;">[[http://www.stripes.com/news/prostitution-crimes-down-among-troops-in-s-korea-1.83440|__http://www.stripes.com/news/prostitution-crimes-down-among-troops-in-s-korea-1.83440__]]</span>, DA: 8/9/10</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">SEOUL — As South Korea c**ontinues a nationwide …., home to the headquarters for the U.S. military in South Korea.**</span>

<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Economic conditions for Korean women are improving.** </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Hughes No date** </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">Donna M Hughes, PhD University of Rhoode Island, Katherine Y. Chon and Derek P Ellerman co-founders of the Polaris Project, “Modern-Day Comfort Women: The US Military, Transnational Crime, and the Trafficking of Women”, Ch. 11, International Sex Trafficking of Women and Children: Understanding the Global, DA: 7/8/10</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">In the last decade, the economic ….Russian (Union of Women’s Social Organizations, n.d.). </span>

<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**The closing of bases reverses this.** </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Hughes No date** </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">Donna M Hughes, PhD University of Rhoode Island, Katherine Y. Chon and Derek P Ellerman co-founders of the Polaris Project, “Modern-Day Comfort Women: The US Military, Transnational Crime, and the Trafficking of Women”, Ch. 11, International Sex Trafficking of Women and Children: Understanding the Global, DA: 7/8/10</span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">For decades, Filipina women have been …. in when the U.S. military bases were in the Philippines**.**</span>

<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**And, our impacts are NOT constructed – DPRK rhetoric proves our arguments** </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">**Wallace 4 –** Colonel of the US army (Joseph K., 5/3, “TRANSFORMING DETERRENCE ON THE KOREAN PENINSULA”,<span style="color: #1a37ef;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA423758&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf|__http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA423758&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf__]]</span>) *note: the footnotes from 1 and 2 are from Homer T. Hodge, a Senior Intelligence Officer for Asia at the US Army National, footnote 3 is from the DPNK news agency </span>
<span style="font: 13.0px 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 19.0px; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify;">Throughout the 50-year alliance the United ….fight against the United States.”3 </span>




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]