=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16pt;">Black Framework</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Anti-Blackness is the most important part of this and EVERY resolution and Framework. It is the backbone of this activity and all its theory. Put your Atchison and Paneta Cards away and read some Dr. Brinkley. Anti-Blackness MUST be confronted. Get ready to learn the REAL truth. </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Evans 12</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Rashad W., Former Winner of CEDA/Lawyer/Director of Debate at West Conn./Coach at Bronx Law, “More on Debate and Anti-Blackness”, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.rwesq.com/]]</span> (accessed 11/26/12), C.A.)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Now, back in the day,.....</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This isn’t working.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Your silence on Anti-Blackness reflects the REFUSAL to confront the inequities suffered by Black debaters. </span>**
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Resistance Debate 12</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rashad, Lawyer/Winner of CEDA/Coach at Bx Law, Shanara Rose, Professor of African American Studies at U of Pit, Jillian Marty, Former Towson Coach,/Former Debater, Amber Kelsie, Former Member of the IMPACT Coalition, works along Dr. Brinkley at U of Pit, “An Open Letter to Sarah Spring”, http://resistanceanddebate.wordpress.com/2012/11/12/an-open-letter-to-sarah-spring/ (accessed 11/26/12), C.A.)</span></span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lack of community discussion is .....</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Sarah Spring’s cedadebate post is a case in point. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">No you’re not neutral, don’t play that shit. Your silence is damning.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mills 98 </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Charles W., Associate Professor of philosophy at the University of Illinois, Chicago, “Blackness Visible”, C.A.)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">What difference does taking race.....</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__t nature of the polity.__** </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And, your focus on policy making is racist</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kathleen M. **__Shaw 04__** </span><span class="cite" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Associate Professor of Urban Studies at Ohio State</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Using Feminist Critical Policy Analysis in the Realm of Higher Education: The Case of Welfare Reform as Gendered Educational Policy Source: The Journal of Higher Education, Vol. 75, No. 1, Special Issue: Questions of Research and Methodology, (Jan. - Feb., 2004), pp. 56-79</span>
<span class="Emphasis2">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The methods and theoretical frameworks......</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">prevailing relations of power"</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(1997a, p. 3).</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Specifically, blindly calling forward the USFG makes you complicit.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dr. Brinkley, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Shanara Rose, Professor of African American Studies at Pittsburg University, “The Harsh Realities of ‘Acting Black’”: How African America Policy Debaters Negotiate Representation Through Racial Performance And Style, C.A.]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mitchell observes that **__the stance......__** in the maintenance of hegemony. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And here’s the reality: You produce the same logic that causes the constant exclusion of Black people.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Mills 98 </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Charles W., Associate Professor of philosophy at the University of Illinois, Chicago, “Blackness Visible”, pg 3-4., C.A.)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">So the result is a silence......</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">of the routine, one has to pretend that it does. </span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And every time we speak out against Anti-Blackness in debate rounds you become aware of us as though we are a threat and we get hit with hostility and framework</span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Evans 12</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Rashad W., Former Winner of CEDA/Lawyer/Director of Debate at West Conn./Coach at Bronx Law, “More on Debate and Anti-Blackness”, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.rwesq.com/]]</span> (accessed 11/26/12), C.A.)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">To be Black in this community ......</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **__most of you we get dismissed.__**</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The time has come to confront Anti-Blackness and produce NEW scholarship instead of regurgitating the same information. This is best for debate and a pre-requisite to any "ethical" policymaking.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dr. Brinkley 12</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Shanara, Professor of African American Studies at Pittsburg University, “The Dr.Shanara Reid-Brinkley Interview”, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://puttingthekindebate.com/2012/04/02/the-dr-shanara-reid-brinkley/]]</span>, C.A.)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Given that this is the case....... you write a [ed] academic paper now.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And don’t get it twisted, some vague reference and discussion of “people of color” won’t cut it – You need to explicitly confront Anti-Blackness and its effect within debate.</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Sexton ’10</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Jared, associate professor of African American studies and film and media studies at the University of California, Irvine, “People-of-Color-Blindness”, Social Text 2010 Volume 28, Number 2 103: 31-56]</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">If the oppression of nonblack people......</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">han yet another revolution. 78</span>