[[toc]]
=Kritiks= 

==Capitalism== 

The affirmative’s act of withdrawal is only a token gesture aimed at making U.S. imperialism seem benign in order to buy of resistance.
Gowan 4 [Peter, Professor of International Relations at London Metropolitan University, “Triumphing toward International Disaster: The Impasse in American Grand Strategy, Critical Asian Studies,”http://www.socialistresistance.co.uk/Triumphing%20toward%20International%20Disaster.pdf]

The Problems of Rebuilding …. monetary and financial instabilities.

Increasing the sovereignty of other nations, allows the U.S. to futher capitalism absent direct intervention
Kiely 5 (Ray, Professor of International Politics, Queen Mary University of London, UK, Senior Lecturer in Development Studies, SOAS, University of London, The Changing Face of Anti-Globalization Politics: Two (and a Half) Tales of Globalization and Anti-Globalization, Globalizations; May2005, Vol. 2 Issue 1, p134-150, 17p, http://web.ebscohost.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=2&hid=9&sid=1f1398b6-fb2d-43d0-8fbf-23531a469b4b%40sessionmgr4

These comments on the ….rights and freedom—is poor.


Capitalism makes extinction inevitable – its focus on growth makes ecological decline inevitable, triggering multiple scenarios for extinction.
Kovel 2 [Joel, Alger Hiss Professor At Bard, The Enemy of Nature, Zed Books, p. 22-24]

The scenario of ecological collapse…place behind its walls.


The alternative is to reject the affirmative as an instance of capital– only through a radical rejection of the system can we avoid extinction
Herod 4(James, author of several books on capitalism, Getting Free, http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm)


It is time to try to …shape of their social world 

===Impact Calc=== 

Take whatever risk of the aff’s impacts you want – the alternative is a prerequisite to life
Zizek, 2k3 (Slavoj, professor of sociology, University of L, The Puppet and the Dwarf)

Insofar as “death” and “life” …. yet drink health like wine.
Our humanity must come first
Raz, Philosopher, 1986 (Joseph, The Morality of Freedom, page 307)
One way to test the thesis of the …. being alive can be better than that life. 

===Environment Impact=== 

The way we treat the environment spills over, allowing the destruction of the environment justifies human extinction
Murray Bookchin, co-founder of the Institute of Social Ecology, 1987 ("An Appeal For Social and Psychological Sanity," The Modern Crisis, Published by Black Rose Books Ltd., ISBN 0920057624, p. 106-108)
Industrially and technologically, we ….reproduce a green and living world. 

===Role of the Ballot=== 

Changes from within fail - every time we refuse to act within capitalism we put efforts towards strengthening a better system
David Korten, President of the People-Centered Development Forum, BEYOND THE GLOBAL SUICIDE ECONOMY, June 22, 2002, p. http://iisd1.iisd.ca/pcdf/2002/Gobal6Billion.htm.
The first step is to get clear …. employment and investment choices.

Their arguments about alternative solvency are irrelevant - as long as we act as if the alternative solves it will be enough to make it successful
Zizek 7 (Slavoj, How to Read Lacan, Ch 2 Empty Gestures and Performatives)
In spite of all its grounding ….. that is sustained by their continuous activity.

===Links=== 

Withdrawal from Iraq only solidifies Iraq’s place in global capitalism.
Panitch and Gindin 04 (Leo and Sam, Leo is the Canada Research Chair in Comparative Political Economy and a Distinguished Research Professor of Political Science at York University in Toronto. Panitch is also the author of Global Capitalism and American Empire. Sam is the Packer chair in Social Justice, Department of Political Science at York University in Toronto, http://attacberlin.de/fileadmin/Sommerakademie/Panitch.Gindin_Global_Capitalism.pdf)
This could turn out to be a challenge ….historically made it plausible and attractive.

Military presence is no longer used to directly control other nations, new imperialism uses indirect control. The affirmatives withdrawal will solidify new markets absent direct intervention.
Sakellaropoulos 8[Spyros, Ph.D. in Political Sociology and an Assistant Professor in the Social Policy Department of the Panteion University “American Foreign Policy as Modern Imperialism: From Armed Humanitarianism to Preemptive War,” Science and Society, http://www.atypon-link.com.proxy1.cl.msu.edu.proxy2.cl.msu.edu/GPI/doi/pdf/10.1521/siso.2008.72.2.208?cookieSet=1
4.1. Hegemonic Aspects of Current American …. demonstrations of immigrant workers (Koronado and Knopp, 2006).

Reducing our presence only strengthens U.S. imperialism, just because the plan decrease the number of troops doesn’t make them an anti capitalist effort.
Patnaik 90 (Prabhat, Eminent and prolific economist who has worked creatively for 40 years at the intersection of Marxian and Keynesian theoretical traditions, professor at the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning in the School of Social Sciences at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. He is currently Vice-Chairman of the Planning Board of the Indian state of Kerala., “Whatever happened to imperialism?,” Monthly Review Foundation, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1132/is_n6_v42/ai_9101140/?tag=content;col1)
It is unnecessary to go on. The point is not…. and vigor it is displaying at present. 

===Turns Case=== 

Defeating capitalism is the ultimate ethical obligation
Zizek and Daly 4 (Slavoj, professor of philosophy at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana, and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek, pg 14-16)
For Zizek it is imperative that …. Other to that of a 'glitch' in an otherwise sound matrix.

Capitalism is the root cause of biopower
Internationalist Persepective, 2000 – staff writer [Issue 36, “Capitalism and Genocide,” Spring – 2000, http://www.geocities.com/wageslavex/capandgen.html]
Michel Foucault's concept of ….of mass death and genocide.