[[toc]]
=Disads= 

==Politics Disads== 

===START DA - Ghill=== 

(Don't remember the uniqueness card - cant find it)

Obama cannot make meaningful changes to US policy in the Koreas without sacrificing anther part of his overloaded agenda.
Shen, 09 (Dingli, Professor of International Relations, Executive Dean of the Institute of International Studies at Fudan University in Shanghai, & Director of Center for American Studies at Fudan University, October, “Cooperative Denuclearization toward North Korea”, The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 32 No. 4, pg. 181, FT & RV)

Washington has long viewed North … regards to its nuclear program.

PC KEY TO START PASSAGE.
Sharp 8/28/09 (travis, military policy analyst at the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, where he specializes in defense budgeting, military policy, and congressional involvement in national security, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/local-priorities-vs-national-interests-arms-control)
While beliefs about national…effort from the White House.

IMPACT -- START KEY TO SOLVE ACCIDENTS, THEFT, PROLIF AND RELATIONS
Montreal Gazette 9
. [July 4, “Duck and cover or a world without nukes?” -- http://www.montrealgazette.com/story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor

Still, Blair and many ….buried by them," Blair said.

THE IMPACT IS EXTINCTION.
American Prospect, 2/26/01

The bitter disputes over….war by checklist, by rote

===Midterms DA - GDS=== 

GOP expected to take over the House
Politico 9/22 (Bruce J. Schulman, 9/22/10, " GOP has a 'natural' House majority ",http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0910/42501.html)
As the midterm campaign ….lose congressional seats at midterm.

The plan’s a step away from Bush—mobilizes the democratic base in the midterms and they’re key.
Kilkenny 2k9. Allison, “New poll paints ugly 2010 picture, http://trueslant.com/allisonkilkenny/2009/11/29/new-poll-paints-ugly-2010-picture/

Two in five. That’s 40 percent …. won overwhelming victories in both houses.

Republican majority after the midterms is key to a climate bill – ensures lame duck session, which is the only hope to get democrats to vote for the bill.
Cousins 8/30. Cousins Farron, senior staff writer for The American Trial Lawyer magazine, and his writings have appeared in publications such as California's Information Press, and Pensacola's Independent Weekly. He has also worked for the Ring of Fire radio program with hosts Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., “WILL CONGRESS RESURRECT THE CLIMATE BILL?,” http://www.energyboom.com/policy/will-congress-resurrect-climate-bill

After being declared legally dead ….only shot that this climate bill has left.

A national RPS will establish uniform standards and signal a national commitment to renewable energy that will spillover into other policies and move away from fossil fuels, which is key to stop warming.
Sovacool and Cooper 7. Ben Sovacool, PhD former Fellow at Oak Ridge national lab and professor at VaTech, and Christopher Cooper, executive director of Network for New Energy Choices (NNEC) a nonprofit focused on expanding energy choices, “Big is Beautiful: The Case for Federal Leadership on National renewable Portfolio Standard” The Electricity Journal vol 20, issue 4 May pg. 48-61

While the value of renewable …. answer is clear: big is truly beautiful.

Extinction
Henderson 6 [Bill Henderson, environmental scientist, “Runaway Global Warming Denial.” Countercurrents.org August 19, 2006.http://www.countercurrents.org/cc-henderson190806.htm.]


The scientific debate about human …. greenhouse gases leading to ever accelerating global 

===Small Businesses DA - Ghill=== 

Will pass- Voinovich is the key 60th vote- but political capital’s key
The Hill 9-9-2010 (Jay Heflin, http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/801-economy/117907-voinovich-to-support-small-business-bill?page=2#comments)
Sen. George Voinovich (R-Ohio) ….by the oil-and-gas industry.


(insert link)

Small business lending is key to short-term and long-term economic growth and competitiveness
Favole 8-30 (Jared, Writer for Dow Jones Newswire, “3rd White House: More Economic Stimulus Measures Coming,” 2010,http://www.automatedtrader.net/real-time-dow-jones/14148/3rd-update-white-house-more-economic-stimulus-measures-coming)
President Barack Obama on Monday said his economic team ….Chairman Christina Romer and economic adviser Larry Summers

Continued economic decline causes global WMD conflict.
Kerpen 08 (Phil, Policy Director for Americans for Prosperity, National Review, October 28,http://www.americansforprosperity.org/afps-phil-kerpen-discusses-financial-crisis-national-review)
It’s important that we avoid all …. armed conflicts on an even greater scale 

===Saudi Arms Deal DA - St. Marks=== 

Obama’s pushing the arms deal – despite some opposition it won’t be blocked.
Jerusalem Post 9/21 (Lexis)

While Baraq's meetings with …. understand it has to accept the political reality.

[INSERT PLAN COST CAPITAL]

Political capital’s key – especially in an election year.
Dumke 6 (David T. Dumke, former legislative director for Representative John D. Dingell, 3-15-2006 “Saudi Arabia and Congress: Understanding the Tension” http://www.saudi-us-relations.org/articles/2006/ioi/060315-congress-dumke.html)

Foreign policy is no different ….seeking to bolster their security credentials.

Impact goes one direction – their impacts are empirically denied by past sales, but the most recent request is key to solidify US-Saudi relations.
Forbes 10 (9/2/10, http://www.forbes.com/2010/09/01/saudi-arabia-military-defense-weapons-business-oxford.html)

Though a trickle of Saudi purchases …. with Washington for at least another 20 years.

US-Saudi relations are key to keep oil priced in dollars and maintain US hegemony
Charles Shaw, Editor-in-Chief, June, 4, http://www.newtopiamagazine.net/content/issue17/features/greenleap.php

The second critical issue is that the US …. ends, through revolution or war, US hegemony ends, unless we occupy the oil fields till they run dry.

Collapse of American hegemony causes nuclear war
Alexei Arbatov 7 corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs, “Is a New Cold War Imminent,” Russia in Global Affairs, No. 2, July-September 2007, http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/20/1130.html

However, the low probability of a new Cold War ….several major capitals of the world.


===Tax Cuts - UT Longhorn Classic=== 

Compromise on Tax Cuts in the Lame Duck
Jeffry Bartash. 11/16/10. “Geithner Expects Tax Cut Extension Soon” Market Watch http://www.marketwatch.com/story/geithner-sees-deal-on-tax-cuts-soon-2010-11-16?reflink=MW_news_stmp
WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) — …competitive America,” he added.


(Insert Partisan Link)


BIPART KEY TO SHORT TERM EXTENSION – PARTISANSHIP RESULTS IN EXPIRATION OF CUTS.
FINANCIAL TIMES 11-16. [“Advice for Capitol’s lame ducks” -- http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/f93f9dec-f1b9-11df-bb5a-00144feab49a.html#axzz15XLklTuv]
On taxes, the …. were not Washington.

These tax increases would cripple the US and global economies
Lambro, ’09 – Chief political correspondent for The Washington Times (Donald, “Critical review missing”, 1/29, Lexis)
If you've been watching …. Times, is a nationally syndicated columnist.

That causes nuclear war
Mead, 09 - senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, 2/4/09, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger,” http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2 AD 6/30/09)
Frequently, the crisis ….we may still have to fight 

==South Korea Prolif DA== 

Withdrawal causes South Korea and Japan to proliferate
Wimbush 8 – Director of the Center for Future Security Strategies and Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute (January 2008, S. Enders, “A Parable: The U.S.-ROK Security Relationship Breaks Down”, Asia Policy Number 5, presented at the Korea Institute for Future Strategies,http://kms2.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/RESSpecNet/105147/ichaptersection_singledocument/C4F1A704-3F9E-4AEE-B55F-E1ADEB9CFA23/en/2.pdf) MGM
NOTE: ARTICLE FOLLOWS THE EVENTS THAT WOULD OCCUR POST-WITHDRAWAL. THE EVENTS IN THE ARTICLE HAVE NOT HAPPENED

A Russian think-tank …. the country’s nuclear energy requirements.


That collapses the NPT
Einhorn 4 – Department of State’s Special Advisor for Nonproliferation and Arms Control (2004, Robert, “Will the Abstainers Reconsider”, part of “Nuclear Tipping Point : Why States Reconsider Their Nuclear Choices.”, accessed at Umich ebrary) MGM

The ones listed above were chosen …. step toward the tipping point.


Escalates to global nuclear war
Cirincione, 2k – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)
The blocks would fall quickest ….use of a nuclear weapon since 1945. 

==China DA== 

Troops in Japan deter Taiwan invasion
Ross 2 – Professor of Political Science, Boston College, and Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies, Harvard University (John, International Security Journal, Fall 2002, Vol. 27, p.79, Muse)

Deterrence could fail if China’s …. intervention with Kadena-based U.S. aircraft.


Military exercises are critical to deterrence of China
Payne, et. al, 10 – Professor in Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University (3/2010, Keith, Thomas Scheber – VP National Institute for Public Policy, Kurt Guthe – Director of Strategic Studies at the National Institute for Public Policy, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,”http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf) MGM

Military exercises and operations, ….nuclear guarantee will be more direct.


US-China nuclear war goes global
Hunkovic 9, American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict
Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]
A war between China, Taiwan …. other countries will not be considered in this study.

==Allied Prolif DA== 

Withdrawal causes rapid allied prolif – intervening actors can’t solve and miscalc outweighs other factors
Wimbush 8 – Director of the Center for Future Security Strategies and Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute (January 2008, S. Enders, “A Parable: The U.S.-ROK Security Relationship Breaks Down”, Asia Policy Number 5, presented at the Korea Institute for Future Strategies,http://kms2.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/RESSpecNet/105147/ichaptersection_singledocument/C4F1A704-3F9E-4AEE-B55F-E1ADEB9CFA23/en/2.pdf) MGM
NOTE: ARTICLE FOLLOWS THE EVENTS THAT WOULD OCCUR POST-WITHDRAWAL. THE EVENTS IN THE ARTICLE HAVE NOT HAPPENED
What does this parable of …. detriment of nearly everyone.

Escalates to global nuclear war
Cirincione, 2k – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)
The blocks would fall quickest …. a nuclear weapon since 1945.

==India DA== 

Plan kills US-Indian Relations – causes South Asian instability and undermines our credibility in India ]
Kaplan 10 – senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security (8/2010, Robert, “South Asia’s Geography of Conflict,” www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf)

He or she who sits …. on how we perform in Afghanistan.
]
Asia Society Task Force 9 – (1/2009, “Delivering on the Promise: Advancing US Relations With India”, http://www.asiasociety.org/policy-politics/task-forces/delivering-promise-advancing-us-relations-india) MGM
India matters to virtually every …. Secretary of Political Affairs R. Nicholas Burns.


Prolif escalates to global nuclear war
Cirincione, 2k – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)

The blocks would fall quickest …. nuclear weapon since 1945.


Warming causes extinction
Cummins and Allen 10 – *International Director at Organic Consumers Association AND Policy Advisor at Organic Consumers Association (2/14/2010, Ronnie and Will, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)

The hour is late. Leading …., cold, heat, disease, war, and starvation. 

===2nc Links <3333 MATT MARCUS WALKS HIS DOG=== 

Afghanistan is key to US-Indian relations – the plan destroys firm US support
Kulkarni 10 – degree in International Security and Econ
omic Policy from University of Maryland’s School of Public Policy and interned with the Arms Control Association (4/20/2010, Manasi, “US looking to increase Indian role in Afghanistan”, http://india.foreignpolicyblogs.com/2010/04/20/us-looking-to-increase-indian-role-in-afghanistan/) MGM

The meeting between Prime ….prove that wrong in Afghanistan.

Relations are improving now, but India is waiting to see what Obama does – their change in the Afghanistan strategy destroys relations and our ability to cooperate
Ganguly 6/14 – professor of political science and holds the Rabindranath Tagore Chair in Indian Cultures and Civilizations at Indiana University, Bloomington (6/14/2010, Sumit, “Indo-US Strategic Dialogue Aftermath: Relations on the Mend?”, http://opinionasia.com/IndoUSDialogue) MGM

In early June, the Obama administration …. attentive to each other’s concerns.

Rapid drawdown from Afghanistan before stabilizing the region would devastate US-India relations
Ure 11-5-2010(Laurie, http://articles.cnn.com/2010-11-05/politics/india.relations_1_afghanistan-withdrawal-john-mccain-india?_s=PM:POLITICS, Afghanistan withdrawal could imperil US-India relations, McCain warns, CNN National Security Producer)
If the United States leaves….discussions with military leaders, he said.

Any reduction is perceived as the beginning of a withdrawal strategy
Riedel and O’Hanlon, 9 - *Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Saban Center for Middle East Policy AND Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy at Brookings (Bruce and Michael, USA Today, 9/24, “Why We Can't Go Small In Afghanistan,” http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0924_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx)
Third, we would likely lose….most might try to beat us to the exit. 

===A2: Kaplan Sucks=== 

Kaplan is an expert on foreign affairs- he has written for leading newspapers, was a consultant for the Special Forces and the CIA, and is among the four most widely read authors defining the post-Cold war era.
Center for a New American Security No Date Given (“Robert Kaplan”, http://www.cnas.org/node/71)
Robert Kaplan, a prolific and influential …. and an abiding concern for the future

Here’s a more familiar person who makes the exact same claim as Kaplan
Kissinger 6-25-2010 (http://www.henryakissinger.com/articles/iht062510.html, Henry A. Kissinger served as national security advisor and as secretary of state in the administrations of Presidents Nixon and Ford)
The facile way out is to blame ….or execute its proclaimed goals

Kaplan is right- defense officials in New Delhi view Afghanistan as a key element of the security of the Indian subcontinent- withdrawal would result in the loss of India as a strategic partner
Karl 10-5-2010 (“ The Crucible of Afghanistan”, http://india.foreignpolicyblogs.com/tag/obamas-wars/, President of the Asia Strategy Initiative, Received his doctorate in international relations at the University of Southern California, writing his dissertation on the India-Pakistan strategic rivalry)
Sounding an unusual cautionary note, …. U.S.-China balance of power. 

==Afghan Withdrawal DA== 

Ending counterinsurgency leads to Taliban takeover, causing Afghanistan and Pakistan to collapse, prolif, and nuclear war
Kagan and Kagan 9 - *Resident Scholar and Director, AEI Critical Threats Project, former prof of military history @ West Point AND military historian (Fredrick W., Kimberly, “Don't Go Wobbly on Afghanistan”, 10/12/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/101110)
It is very likely that the …. use of nuclear weapons.

And, premature withdrawal destabilizes Pakistan and collapses US leadership globally. This destroys NATO and prevents efforts to curtail Iranian prolif
Twining, 9 – Senior Fellow for Asia at the German Marshall Fund of the United States (Dan, “The Stakes of Afghanistan Go Well Beyond Afghanistan”, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan)

The surreal belief in some … our interests nor our values. 

==Heg DA== 

Regional states’ confidence in the U.S. commitment is key to East Asian stability and U.S. global leadership – the impact is rapid Japan remilitarization, Taiwan conflict and instability in India-Pakistan and Korea
Goh, 8 – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database )

The centrality of these mutual….appear to be much worse.


This causes great power nuclear conflict
Gray, 5 – Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” http://www.carlisle.army. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm)

6. Interstate War, Down….for war: “fear, honor, and interest.”23 

==Russia Relations DA== 

US-Russia relations are higher than ever
LeVine, 6/23 (Steve, contributing editor at Foreign Policy, “The beginning of a beautiful friendship (maybe)”, 6/23/10, Accessed 9/9/10, http://oilandglory.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/23/the_beginning_of_a_beautiful_friendship_maybe)

When the Obama administration's….be part of reset, he said.


(Insert Link)


US-Russian relations are key to solve prolif, energy insecurity, terrorism, disease, and global warming
Graham 8 – former foreign service officer on academic leave with RAND in Moscow, previously had several assignments in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, including head of the Political/Internal Unit and acting political counselor, he worked on Russian/Soviet affairs as a member of the policy planning staff of the State Department and as a policy assistant in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, has a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University and a B.A. in Russian studies from Yale University (July 2008, Thomas, “US-Russian Relations: Facing Reality Pragmatically”, CSIS, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080717_graham_u.s.russia.pdf)

What trends? Simply put, ….lasting security and economic structures.


Extinction
Cummins and Allen 10 – *International Director at Organic Consumers Association AND Policy Advisor at Organic Consumers Association (2/14/2010, Ronnie and Will, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)

The hour is late. Leading climate ….heat, disease, war, and starvation.

===Links - Counter Narcotics=== 

Russia hates our ending of drug operations
Wingfield-Hayes 10 (Rupert, writer for BBC, Russia blames Nato for heroin surge from Afghanistan, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/8540726.stm, 2/27/10, MM)
The head of Russia's federal …. whom are addicted to heroin.


Russia hates when the US lacks on drugs
BBC 09 (leader in world news, Russian anger over Afghan drugs, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/8319585.stm, 10/21/09, MM)

Russia is highlighted as …. heroin production in Afghanistan.


Kills relations
Voice of Russia 10 (renowned Russian newspaper, Russia expects NATO to step up drug war in Afghanistan, http://english.ruvr.ru/2010/09/01/18212906.html, 9/1/10, MM)

Russia expects NATO …. “has dragged on too long”. 

==Nato DA== 

NATO’s credibility is at a crossroads – sustaining the COIN mission in Afghanistan is key to maintain the alliance
Morelli and Belkin 9 – *section research manager AND analyst in European Affairs (12/3/2009, Vincent and Paul, “NATO in Afghanistan: A Test of the Transatlantic Alliance”, Congressional Research Center, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33627.pdf)

NATO’s mission in Afghanistan….2001 invasion of Afghanistan.3


NATO key to prevent multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict
Jackson 99 – President of the US Committee on NATO (4/23/1999, Bruce, Policy Review, http://www.policyreview.org/apr99/jackson_print.html)

NATO is at the center ….expenditures at near wartime levels. 

===Links - Counter Narcotics=== 

NATO is engaged in counternarcotics now – only a risk of a link
NATO HQ 9 – (“NATO’s support to counter-narcotics efforts in Afghanistan”, http://www.nato.int/isaf/topics/factsheets/counter-narcotics-factsheet.pdf) MGM

The Afghan Ministry of Interior….narcotics networks’ ability to operate.

Ending counternarcotics in Afghanistan ditches NATO
Pothier no date – director of Carnegie Europe (“Reframing Counter-narcotics Policy in Afghanistan”, House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee, Carnegie Endowment, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/?fa=view&id=23024) MGM

Political will is the real …. an effective Afghan capacity.