=Federalism DA= 
===Federalism is high now and increasing=== 
**McGuigan 11** (Patrick B. McGuigan, editor, more than three decades of experience in news reporting, policy analysis, and commentary, “Transportation Federalism – and Flexibility – Proposed in New Bill Form from Coburn, Lankford,” CapitolBeatOK, July 29, 2011, <span style="color: #000000;">http://capitolbeatok.com/reports/transportation-federalism-and-flexibility-proposed-in-new-bill-from-coburn-lankford</span>, Sawyer)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A bill giving greater authority and control over transportation funding was introduced in Congress yesterday, </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, through their representatives in the Oklahoma Legislature, will know much better how to allocate resources within the State of Oklahoma.”</span>
===<span style="font-size: 16px;">Federal passage hurts federalism – states won’t support the plan</span>=== 
**Clay 08** (Casey Clay, “Should the Federal Government Make Transportation Infrastructure a Funding Priority,” Helium, July 3, 2008, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.helium.com/items/1100824-yes</span>, Sawyer)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Today, many Americans are thinking of new ways to stretch their paychecks. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The way for such a measure to gain enough support to pass is through the activism of concerned citizens.</span>
===Federalism is key to the economy=== 
**Katz 12** (Bruce Katz, Vice President and Director, Metropolitan Policy Program, Global Cities Initiative, “Will the Next President Remake Federalism?” Brookings, March 18, 2012, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.brookings.edu/research/articles/2012/03/18-federalism-katz</span>, Sawyer)
With the<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> national and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">gl</span>obal economy in a period of disruptive change, 
AND
- if the next president is willing to take it.
===Transportation is the __key issue__ – spills over and impacts the __entirety__ of federalism=== 
**Edner and McDowell 02** (Sheldon Edner, Director, Center for Federal Management Leadership, George Mason University, former Associate Director for Financial Management at the Department of Transportation, Bruce D. McDowell, President, Intergovernmental Management Associates, Project Director, National Academy of Public Administration, “Surface-Transportation Funding in a New Century: Assessing One Slice of the Federal Marble Cake,” JSTOR, Publius, The Journal of Federalism, Vol. 32, No. 1, Winter 2002, pp. 7-24, Sawyer)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This article examines </span>American federalism through the prism of<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the surface </span>transportation<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> program, </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Transportation</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> is one of the policy areas that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">has been a </span>bellwether<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in </span>characterizing the status of the federal-state relationship.
=Spending DA= 
===The economy is recovering now – all major indicators are on track=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kroneberg, 6-13</span>-12 Editor of the Boston Herald (Jerry, "Expert: Don't worry, economy's OK", The Boston Herald, June 13, 2012, http://www.bostonherald.com/business/general/view/20220613expert_dont_worry_economys_ok_mfs_guru_sees_no_signs_of_double-dip_recession_or_bursting_bubbles/srvc=home&position=also)
The U.S. economy shows no signs of a double-dip recession
AND
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">That’s half the boost historically seen during growth periods.</span>
=== === 
===Transportation Infrastructure Investment Weakens the Economy=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Rugy and Mitchell, 2011 </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">– Veronique </span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">and Matthew, Senior Research Fellows at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University (WOULD MORE INFRASTRUCTURE SPENDING STIMULATE THE ECONOMY?</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> September 2011, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/infrastructure_deRugy_WP_9-12-11.pdf)/NE|http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/infrastructure_deRugy_WP_9-12-11.pdf)//NE]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In response, the president has announced a plan for yet more deficit-financed stimulus spending.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> it will be 90 percent within seven years and 100 percent within ten. </span>
=== === 
===Perception of fiscal discipline is key – excessive deficit spending will destroy the perception of the dollar and collapse the global economy=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bergsten</span>200<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">9</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – C. Fred, Director of the Institute for International Economics, former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs and Assistant for International Economic Affairs to the National Security Council (“The Dollar and the Deficits,” Foreign Affairs, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A first step is to recognize the dangers of standing pat. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> its ability to pursue autonomous economic and foreign policies will become increasingly compromised.</span></span>
=== === 
===Economic decline triggers worldwide conflict=== 
====Royal 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, (Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)==== 
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>


=Immigration Reform DA= 
===Comprehensive immigration reform will pass now – it is a breeze compared to fiscal cliff=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The Atlantic Wire, on 1-2</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[[http://news.yahoo.com/obamas-push-immigration-reform-starts-now-015245817.html]]</span>
With a fiscal cliff deal (sort of) sealed,
AND
"The chance to legislate through regular order on immigration reform might have leaders in both parties working together and singing 'Kumbaya.'"
=== === 
===[[#Negative-Disadvantages-Immigration Reform-And, Obama must make substantial investment to get immigration reform passed]] Obama must make substantial investment to get immigration reform passed=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Dallas morning News on 1-2</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Editorial: Actions must match Obama’s immigration pledge</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece]]</span>
President Barack Obama said all the right things Sunday about immigration reform. 
AND
in an interview on Meet the Press Sunday
=== === 
===[[#Negative-Disadvantages-Immigration Reform-B. Transportation spending drains political capital]]Transportation spending drains political capital=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bowman 1/2,</span> Robert J. Bowman, senior editor of SupplyChainBrain and more than 20 years’ experience writing about infrastructure, logistics, and trade, SupplyChainBrain is the blog for the Global Logistics and Supply Chain Strategies Center, citing the President and chief executive officer of the Eno Center for Transportation, “Transportation Funding 2: Gridlock on the congressional Gridiron,” January 2nd, 2013, SupplyChainBrain, [[http://www.supplychainbrain.com/content/blogs/think-tank/blog/article/transport-funding-2-gridlock-on-the-congressional-gridiron-1/]]
The holidays are supposed to be a time of joy, 
AND
Yet he also wonders whether there isn’t another way to generate the money needed to address our nation’s infrastructure crisis.
=== === 
===<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Immigration reform helps reduce the threat of domestic terrorism</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Price 08, </span>David Price, North Carolina Representative, Chairman of Homeland Security Appropriations sub-committee, “Price Delivers Major Speech On Homeland Security,” 23 June 2008, [[http://price.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2723&Itemid=100260]]
"Today I will suggest five principal homeland security priorities on which I would advise the next administration to focus. 
AND
there can be no credible argument that deporting illegal workers should take precedence over efforts to combat smuggling, prevent terrorism, and deport criminal aliens
=== === 
===[[#Negative-Disadvantages-Immigration Reform-Nuclear war]]Nuclear war=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hellman 8</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—professor emeritus of electrical engineering at Stanford University. PhD from Stanford. (Martin, The Odds for Nuclear Armageddon, Spring 2008, [[http://www.nuclearrisk.org/paper.pdf]], AMiles)</span>
The threat of nuclear terrorism looms much larger in the public’s mind than the threat of a full-scale nuclear war,
AND
Similar remarks apply to a number of other threats (e.g., nuclear war between the U.S. and China over Taiwan).