=Negative-Case= 
=**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">"OMG Nuclear War!"</span>**= 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Aff uses the idea of wars and extinction in order to side-step issues of racism and oppression. Words like Nuke War make you think we are in jeopardy however, people of color have lost their culture for centuries and live in constant war every day. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Barbara **__Omolade,__** __**1984**__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Women of Color and the Nuclear Holocaust” [Sociologist and educator Dr. Barbara Omolade received her bachelor’s degree from Queens College, her master’s degree from Goddard College, and her PhD from the City University of New York. She has worked extensively for women’s and activist organizations and in academia]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Military terror has been used to destroy resistance to racism......have already been declared on our jobs, our housing, our schools, our families and our lands.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Western civilization is a dysfunctional one which attempts to justify atrocities </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cesaire 72</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(discourse on colonialism 1972 original publish in 55 pg: 1 Aime Cesaire, attended the Lycée Louis-le Grand, the École Normale Supérieure, and ultimately the Sorbonne G.L)</span>
A civilization that uses its principles for trickery and deceit is a dying civilization...... lets us go straight to the principal lie which is the source of all the others.
="State Good/Inevitable"= 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The affirmative’s call for a short term policy reform culturally and politically normalizes the explicit and openly racist technologies of state violence that have neutralized entire populations of our people. The only way to solve is thru an abolitionist politics</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">__Rodriguez, 2008__ </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Dylan, </span><span style="background-color: #fffeeb;">Professor and Chair of the Department of Ethnic Studies at UC Riverside</span><span style="background-color: #fffeeb; font-size: 13.5pt;">, </span><span style="background-color: #fffeeb;">“Warfare and the Terms of Engagement”,C.A.)</span>
Not long from now, generations will emerge from.....the state can and must be radically confronted on multiple fronts by an abolitionist politics.