[[toc]]
=Electricity Prices DA= 
**Electricity prices are low and will likely decline now – gas boom, energy efficiency, reduced demand** 
**Burtraw 8/21/12** (one of the nation’s foremost experts on environmental regulation in the electricity sector. “Falling Emissions and Falling Prices: Expectations for the Domestic Natural Gas Boom” http://common-resources.org/2012/falling-emissions-and-falling-prices-expectations-for-the-domestic-natural-gas-boom/)
Moreover, the boom in domestic natural gas production could have even more immediate affects 
AND
.8 Billion (real $2009) in savings projected for 2020.

**Plan reverses that**
<span class="s1">**Greenpeace 8** </span>("False Hope - Why carbon capture and storage won’t save the climate," http://www.greenpeace.org/international/en/publications/reports/false-hope/)
While cost estimates for CCS vary considerably, one thing¶ is certain – it 
AND
, such as¶ wind power and many types of sustainable biomass.¶ 28


**Low electricity prices spurs manufacturing "reshoring" and sparks US economic growth via consumer spending and investment** 
<span class="s1">**Perry 7/31/12**</span> (Mark, Prof of Economics @ Univ. of Michigan, "America's Energy Jackpot: Industrial Natural Gas Prices Fall to the Lowest Level in Recent History," http://mjperry.blogspot.com/2012/07/americas-energy-jackpot-industrial.html)

Building petrochemical plants could suddenly become attractive in the United States. Manufacturers will "
AND
seems like a win, win, win, win situation to me. 

**Manufacturing strength is key to the economy** 
<span class="s1">**Ettlinger and Gordon 11**</span> (Michael and Kate, the Vice President for Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress, former director of the Economic Analysis and Research Network of the Economic Policy Institute and Vice President for Energy Policy at the Center for American Progress. Most recently, Kate was the co-director of the national Apollo Alliance, where she still serves as senior policy advisor. Former senior associate at the Center on Wisconsin Strategy, "The Importance and Promise of American Manufacturing" [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/04/pdf/manufacturing.pdf-)]]

Manufacturing is critically important to the American economy. For generations, the strength of 
AND
vulnerable to everything from exchange rate fluctuations to trade embargoes to natural disasters.
=Heg DA= 
**The Affirmative’s criticism of American policy is dangerous – it contributes to isolationism and the eventual collapse of U.S. primacy**
<span class="s1">**Kagan,** **98** </span>(Robert, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and PhD in American History from American University, “The Benevolent Empire,” Foreign Policy. Summer, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=275 AFM)
Those contributing to the growing chorus of antihegemony and multipolarity may know they are playing
AND
when they pop the champagne corks in celebration of the next American humbling.

**Their intellectual arrogance will get us killed – the debating and whining about how we approach policymaking and the concerns of over identification needs to end so we can face realistic threats**
<span class="s1">**Hanson, 3** </span>(Victor Davis, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Professor Emeritus at California University, Fresno, Ph.D. from Stanford, “We Could Still Lose.” National Review Online. August 11. http://www.hoover.org/publications/digest/3050721.html. AFM)
If one were to collate the news reports about the Mosul shootout, the lessons
AND
—whining and debating to the end, even as they pass away.



**The result is wars around globe**
<span class="s1">**Rosen, 3**</span> (Stephen Peter Rosen, Beton Michael Kaneb Professor of National Security and Military Affairs at Harvard University, The National Interest. “An Empire, if You Can Keep It.” March 22. http://www.encyclopedia.com/doc/1G1-99377575.html AFM)
Rather than wrestle with such difficult and unpleasant problems, the United States could give
AND
is not at all clear that the alternatives are that much more attractive.

**The affirmative is utterly incapable of describing or even comprehending the horrors of a world without active American engagement. War has proven to be an effective vehicle for liberating millions and stopping Hitler and it is the only thing standing between us and greater evil.**
<span class="s1">**Peters**</span>, <span class="s1">**5**</span> (Ralph, retired U.S. Army intelligence officer, The New York Post, "Protest Therapy," 9-27-2005, http://terpsboy.com/Articles/protest-therapy.html AFM)
The reason no protester has described what would follow a withdrawal of our troops is
AND
and drifting souls yearning for a cause to lend their failed lives meaning.
=Russia Influence DA= 
**Unilateral action kills Russian relations**
<span class="s1">**Asia News 12** </span>(News Agency, no author given, [[http://www.bakutoday.net/arctic-policy-between-the-united-states-and-russia-rivalry-and-cooperation.html]], July 6, 2012 5:08 pm)
Contradictions (explicit and implicit) between Russia and the United States on Arctic exist
AND
region, or they will make a choice in favour of multilateral cooperation.

**Arctic leadership is key to Russian stability**
<span class="s1">**Geopolitical Monitor 4/25**</span> Russia in the Arctic: Rise of the Polar Bear Zachary Fillingham - Apr 25, 12 http://www.geopoliticalmonitor.com/russia-in-the-arctic-rise-of-the-polar-bear-4667/
But now all that has changed, and the Arctic has become somewhat of an
AND
the region, perhaps to the future detriment of other Arctic ownership claims.

**Escalates and goes nuclear**

**David, 99 (Steven, Professor of Politics Science**
Divining the military's allegiance is crucial, however, since the structure of the
AND
this threat more than the chaos that would follow a Russian civil war.