[[toc]]
=Alaska CP= 
**Text: The state government of Alaska, through the Alaska Industrial Development and Export Authority, should substantially increase investment in construction and development of deep-water ports in Alaska. The state government of Alaska should enact a prohibition on oil drilling that extends from the Alaskan coast to the outer limits of the Outer Continental Shelf. The governor of Alaska should issue a written request for assistance to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for assistance in the construction and development of deep-water ports in Alaska.** 


**First, states have the authority to prohibit offshore drilling – solves the first advantage** 
<span class="s1">**Agence France Presse 8**</span> ("Bush calls on Congress to lift offshore drilling ban," http://afp.google.com/article/ALeqM5j5lZlQytDSpHtFDIvXfVL1hVX10w)

US President George W. Bush … away from its dependence on oil.

**Secondly, the CP solves Arctic leadership** 
<span class="s1">**Alaska House of Representatives 12**</span> ("ARCTIC PLANNING & INFRASTRUCTURE
INVESTMENT," http://housemajority.org/coms/anw/pdfs/27/draft_recommendations_part_02.pdf)

A number of state initiatives … benefit of all Alaskans.

**Third, states can request assistance from Army Corps of Engineers - they'll say yes following the CP’s increase in port investment**
<span class="s1">**USACE 12**</span> ("US Army Corps of Engineers," http://www.usace.army.mil/Missions/EmergencyOperations/Drought.aspx)

The U.S. Army Corps … assistance is not permitted.

=China Bashing CP= 
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Text: The United States Federal Government should institute a tariff on products from the People’s Republic of China that are directly subsidized.</span>**

**This balances the trade deficit AND existence of unfair competition makes aff solvency impossible.**
**Childers 11** [Adrian, writer for Business Insider, “The Best Way To Balance The U.S. Trade Deficit Might Be Just South Of The Border, articles.businessinsider.com/2011-07-14/markets/30020142_1_trade-deficit-maquiladoras-mexican-trucks]
__The trade imbalance we have__ ...<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> American companies aren’t at a disadvantage.</span>


=Consult Russia CP= 
**Text: The United States federal government should enter into prior binding consultation with Russia over [plan].**


**BPC key to relations – disagreements put us on the brink**
<span class="s1">**Rojansky, 7/13** </span>[7/13/11, Matthew Rojansky, the deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment “Lavrov's Visit and a New Foundation for U.S.-Russia Cooperation”, http://carnegie.ru/publications/?lang=en&fa=45036, SM]
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov is in Washington this week for consultations on a wide
AND
show what we are capable of doing when two great nations work together.


**Relations check loose nukes, accidents, nuclear war, miscalc**
<span class="s1">**Cohen, ‘1**</span> (Stephen, Prof of Russian Studies at NYU, June 7, http://www.thenation.com/doc.mhtml?i=20010625&c=1&s=cohen)
In these and other ways, Russia has been plunging back into the nineteenth century
AND
, "If not now, when? If not us, who?"
=Corporate Tax CP= 
**The United States Federal Government should cut the corporate tax rate to 28%.**

**Solves free trade and avoids the link to politics**
**Hodge 11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Scott president of the tax foundation “Ten Benefits of Cutting the U.S. Corporate Tax Rate” http://taxfoundation.org/sites/taxfoundation.org/files/docs/sr192.pdf)JC</span>
__There is near unanimous bipartisan ...__ __behind our major trading partners.__

=Diversity Forums CP= 
**Our counter advocacy is to create a forum in which to discuss [the aff]**

**Discussion forums solve best- we should encourage community-wide forums to discuss their advocacy**
**Zompetti ’04** [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State
University,<span class="s1"> “</span>Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”]

Interjecting the personalized into debate rounds has become highly problematic. As discussions on eDebate
AND
to personalizing debate, however, are, in my opinion, enormous.

**Three net benefits-**
<span class="s2">**Alliance splitting**</span>**- personalizing debate risks splitting alliances and fracturing solutions, causing backlash and resistance:**
**Zompetti ’04** [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State
University,<span class="s1"> “</span>Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”]
The purpose of this essay is to outline what I strongly believe is a fundamental
AND
of debating has emerged wrought with frustrations, anxiety, resistance and backlash.

<span class="s2">**Structural solutions**</span>**- personalized debating blocks structural solutions- our counter advocacy solves better**
**Zompetti ’04** [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State
University,<span class="s1"> “</span>Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”]
To be sure… within the debate community.

**Debate rounds are bad forums- lack of time, moving advocacy target, and they deflect from community-wide discussions- turns the case**
**Zompetti ’04** [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State
University,<span class="s1"> “</span>Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”]

The second major problem with this turn in contemporary policy debate is its deflection,
AND
how personalized debating prevents examination of more important factors such as resource disparity.
=EB Visas CP= 
**The United States federal government should exempt graduates from universities in the United States from the employment-visa quota and preference category system if they hold an advanced degree in science or technology from a school in the United States.**


**Foreign students are critical to sustaining biotech innovation – they innovate in university research**
<span class="s1">**Meng 9**</span> – Ph.D. Political Science @ Purdue University [Meng Lu. “Not Part of the Family: U.S. Immigration Policy and Foreign Students.” <span class="s2">Thurgood Marshall Law Review</span> 2009 Volume 34, No. 2, 34 T. Marshall L. Rev. 343 2008-2009 pg. HeinOnline]

Foreign students are considered technical brainpower, who often enroll in academic programs in science
AND
resources of the companies that hire them. 9 pg. 345-347

**It creates a tech base that sustains innovation**
<span class="s1">**DeVol,** </span>the executive director of economic research at the Milken Institute<span class="s1">**, 2010** </span>(and Wong,Ross DeVol is the Executive Director of Economic Research at the Milken Institute and Perry Wong is the Director of the Regional Economics group at the Milken Institute, “Jobs for America Investments and policies for economic growth and competitiveness,” January, http://www.nam.org/~/media/58F813B0D1E643DC91E564FE4C3B3C2F.ashx]
As national economies transition to a post-industrial model that is based on intangibles
AND
must develop innovation-based production to create broad-based economic prosperity.
=H1-B CP= 
**Text: The United States federal government should eliminate the cap on its H-1B visas.**

**CP solves science diplomacy**
**Pickering et al 1-27-10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Thomas R. Pickering is the President of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, undersecretary of state from 1997-2000 and chairs the advisory council of the Civilian Research and Development Foundation. Peter Agre, a Nobel laureate, is a physician and director of the Malaria Research Institute at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, “Science diplomacy aids conflict reduction,” http://www.signonsandiego.com/news/2010/feb/20/science-diplomacy-aids-conflict-reduction/]</span>
Over two foggy days in April, a group of high-ranking Chinese science
AND
be crucial to finding solutions both to global problems and to global conflict.


=JDEC CP= 
**The United States should expand military-to-military exchanges with Russia at operational facilities to include notification of satellite launches and divulging information concerning procedures for control, doctrine and technologies of command and control architecture. The United States should offer Russia early warning data, to create a Joint Data Exchange Center , to install launch warning sensors on the United States arsenal, and offer to provide the same for Russia. The United States should expand the Cooperative Threat Reduction program with Russia.**

**Solves relations and accidental launch**
**Zolotarev, 09 -** major-general (retired), is deputy director of the Institute for U.S. and Canada Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences, and professor of the Academy of Military Sciences (Pavel, “Engaging China and Russia on Nuclear Disarmament,” April, Occasional Paper No. 15, http://cns.miis.edu/opapers/op15/op15.pdf)

At the same time, …weapons would be reduced.
=LOST CP= 
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Text: The United States federal government should ratify the Law of the Sea Treaty. </span>**

**LOST solves Arctic conflicts**
**Eachus 9-10-2007**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Ron Eachus of Salem is a former legislator and a former chairman of the Oregon Public Utility Commission oregon statesman 9-10-07]</span>
In 1982, the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea adopted rules under
AND
of territorial claims will only feed an unfettered appetite for consumption and conflict.
=New Hampshire CP= 
**Text: The state government of New Hampshire should substantially increase funding for a downtown access road and bridge over the Nashua River in the city of Nashua, New Hampshire.**

**We do what their 1ac evidence advocates** -

<span class="s1">**Sakson 87**</span> (Steve, “Residents, Legislators question downtown parkway”, http://news.google.com/newspapers?nid=2209&dat=19870615&id=cZ4kAAAAIBAJ&sjid=VvwFAAAAIBAJ&pg=6563,4912575)

Nashua's request for … study committee Monday.

**The RESULT of the CP solves the Aff – it solves “over-identification” because their 1ac evidence uses A METAPHOR to describe the effects of the road construction as “like putting a road through the White House”**

<span class="s1">**Sakson 87**</span> (Steve, “Residents, Legislators question downtown parkway”, http://news.google.com/newspapers?nid=2209&dat=19870615&id=cZ4kAAAAIBAJ&sjid=VvwFAAAAIBAJ&pg=6563,4912575)

Both routes would necessitate condemning 12 homes in the Fairmount Street neigborhood south of Broad
AND
road through the White House to get to the Capital," she said.
=OIS CP= 
**The United States federal government should establish an Opportunity Impact Statement for [plan] and implement the results of the Opportunity Impact Statement.**

**The counterplan competes – it’s plan minus –**
**a) It severs should**
**Summers 94** (Justice – Oklahoma Supreme Court, “Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant”, 1994 OK 123, 11-8, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn13)
¶4 The legal question to be resolved by the court is whether the word
AND
. 336, 337, 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).

**b) It severs substantial**
**Words and Phrases 1925**
Judicial and statutory definitions of words and phrases, Volume 7, p. 6738
The words “outward, open, actual, visible, substantial, and exclusive
AND
Bass v. Pease, 79 Ill. App. 308, 318.

**Only the CP avoids government transportation discrimination – turns the aff**
<span class="s1">**Jenkins et al. 12**</span> [Alan Jenkins, Executive Director, The Opportunity Agenda Juhu Thukral, Director of Law and Advocacy, The Opportunity Agenda Kevin Hsu, Former Robert L. Carter Fellow and Associate Counsel, The Opportunity Agenda Nerissa Kunakemakorn, Former Robert L. Carter Fellow and Associate Counsel, The Opportunity Agenda and Megan Haberle Former Economic Opportunity Fellow and Associate Counsel, The Opportunity Agenda ] Promoting Opportunity through Impact Statements: A Tool for Policymakers to Assess Equity April 2012
Governmental bodies can expand opportunity each time they support or control any number of projects
AND
- award analysis as part of an administrative agency’s civil rights compliance measures.
=OTEC CP= 
**The United States Federal Government should incentivize the development and use of Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion Technology in the United States by giving tax credits that make OTEC cheaper than oil.**

<span class="s1">**The counterplan solves warming**</span>
<span class="s2">**Galbraith, 09**</span><span class="s1"> (4/12/09, Kate, The New York Times, “Generating Energy from the Deep”, <span class="s3">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/30/business/energy-environment/30thermal.html]]</span></span>)
[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/business/companies/lockheed_martin_corporation/index.html?inline=nyt-org%22%20%5Co%20%22More%20information%20about%20Lockheed%20Martin|LOCKHEED MARTIN]] is best known for building stealth fighters, satellites and other military equipment
AND
<span class="s1">work at night, or [[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/w/wind_power/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier%22%20%5Co%20%22More%20articles%20about%20wind%20power.|wind turbines]], which stop in calm conditions.</span>


=Privatization CP= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**The United States federal government should provide tax credits for the commercial development of [insert plan] and negotiate all necessary international agreements governing the deployment of [insert plan] on behalf of industry.**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**‘Its’ is a possessive pronoun showing ownership**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 2005**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10.6667px; text-align: justify;">(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Mine, yours, his, hers, </span>__its__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, ours, theirs </span>__are__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>__possessive pronouns____used to__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> substitute a noun</span> __and to show__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> possession or </span>__ownership.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)</span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**The CP solves the case**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Hudgins 99**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Edward L., director of regulatory studies – CATO, “35. National Aeronautics and Space Administration,” CATO Handbook for Congress, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.cato.org/pubs/handbook/hb107/hb107-35.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]</span></span>
In general, all activities on the ‘‘near frontier’’ (the Earth-Moon
AND
Mikhail Gorbachev, trying to save his failed system by introducing limited market reforms

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Technological risk and cost overruns are __ever-present__ even with __established__ technology because there’s a substantial difference between technological capability and engineering integration. __Speeding__ tech integration through government programs creates massive cost overruns and risks total engineering failure** (Purple = Air Force, Blue = DoD)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Rendleman and Faulconer,****11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - * USAF, retired Space Law, Policy, and Strategy Contributor Colorado Springs, Colorado AND President, Strategic Space Solutions, LLC (James and Walter, “Escaping the Space Acquisition Death Spiral”, Part 2, High Frontier, August,</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110825-030.pdf</span>****)**</span>
Space systems, even quick and dirty small-sized ones are not easily engineered
AND
could really work as intended. Time and costs were consistently underestimated.”10

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**This turn case – the project would be a failure**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**NRC 11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(National Research Council Committee on Materials Needs and R&D Strategy for Future Military Aerospace Propulsion Systems of the National Research Council, “Materials Needs and Research and Development Strategy for Future Military Aerospace Propulsion Systems”)</span></span>
As one element there must be, for lack of a better descriptor, a
AND
combined with the identification of a manufacturing approach and partners, is critical.
=Reparations CP= 
**We demand the USFG pay higher education and health care costs for the black body as an endorsement of the reparations movement.**
**TI kills the environment**
<span class="s1">**Rodrigue 98**</span> (Note: Copywrite runs from 1998 to 2012—website provides no date of publication) Dr. Jean-Paul Rodrigue, [[http://www.hofstra.edu/Academics/Colleges/HCLAS/GEOG/index.html|Dept. of Global Studies & Geography ]], Hofstra University, New York, USA “Pollutants Emitted by Transport Systems (Air, Water and Noise),” The Geography of Transport Systems, Accessed online at [[http://people.hofstra.edu/geotrans/eng/ch8en/appl8en/ch8a2en.html]], Accessed online at 7/9/12)
3. Dimensions
Transportation activities support increasing mobility
AND
(O3) layer which naturally screens the earth’s surface from ultraviolet radiation.
**Extinction**
<span class="s2">**Takacs,**</span> Instructor in Department of Earth Systems Science and Policy at California State-Monterey Bay<span class="s2"> **1996**</span> (David, Philosophies of Paradise, Available online at <span class="s3">[[http://www.dhushara.com/book/diversit/restor/takacs.htm%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|www.dhushara.com/book/diversit/restor/takacs.htm]]</span>, Accesssed 07/13/2012, ZR)
More often, however, humans are said to benefit from such ecosystem services.
AND
the end of the next century not with a bang but a whimper.

=Sea Basing CP= 
**The US federal government should develop and implement a mobile Sea Basing naval capability as quickly as possible aimed at ensuring adequate United States forward deployment and power projection capabilities.**

**Solves power projection and deterrence**
G.J. <span class="s2">**Flynn, 2009**</span>, Lt. General USMC, 3-26-2009, “Seabasing,” [[http://www.quantico.usmc.mil/download.aspx?Path=./Uploads/Files/CDI_Seabasing%20for%20the%20ROMO%2026%20Mar%2009.pdf]]

In March 2005 the new National Defense Strategy (NDS) emphasized “the importance
AND
<span class="s1">to assume different missions such as crisis response or </span><span class="s3">expeditionary </span><span class="s1">power projection</span><span class="s3">.25</span>