[[toc]]
=Eco Justice K= 
**Transformative learning silences** <span class="s1">**traditions**</span> **and fosters a rootless** <span class="s1">**individualism**</span> **that is hostile intergenerational knowledge that is critical to avert an ecological crisis. Their reference to cultural diversity is empty rhetoric.**
<span class="s2">**Bowers 05**</span> – Professor of Environmental Studies @ University of Oregon[C. A. Bowers (Ph. D. from the University of California in educational studies with an emphasis on education and social thought “Is transformative learning the trojan horse of western globalization?,” <span class="s3">Journal of Transformative Education</span>, 3 (2), pg. 116-125 //www.cabowers.net/pdf/Transformative%20theorist-Commons.pdf]//

//It is important to acknowledge that the rise of liberal/Enlightenment ideas in the//
//AND//
//Earth’s natural system, and in making the people of the world more dependent//
//upon consumerism, is to promote more change through an approach to education that fosters//
//AND//
//being on the politically correct side of the social justice and environmental debate.//
//**Their liberatory effort will be** <span class="s1">**universalized**</span> **and used as an** <span class="s1">**excuse to ignore**</span> **ecologically centered cultures. Their pedagogy prevents us from acquiring a deep knowledge of culture**//
//<span class="s2">**Bowers 08**</span> – Professor of Environmental Studies @ University of Oregon [C. A. Bowers (Ph. D. from the University of California in educational studies with an emphasis on education and social thought,) <span class="s4">Transitions: Educational Reforms that Promote Ecological Intelligence or the Assumptions Underlying Modernity?]</span>//

//To reiterate the key reason that a critical pedagogy of place is an oxymoron is//
//AND//
//environmental educators who identify with a critical pedagogy of place. Pg. 144//

//**Unless we change our academic pursuits we will overshoot the planet’s carrying capacity. The inability to determine the tipping point means you should threat this scenario with the utmost urgency**//
//<span class="s2">**Bowers 08**</span> – Professor of Environmental Studies @ University of Oregon [C. A. Bowers (Ph. D. from the University of California in educational studies with an emphasis on education and social thought,) <span class="s4">Transitions: Educational Reforms that Promote Ecological Intelligence or the Assumptions Underlying Modernity?]</span>//

//Leadership is needed in preparing classroom teachers with the necessary knowledge and pedagogical skills that//
//AND//
//fisheries, petroleum, and other natural minerals. Pg. 182-184//

//**The alternative is “the third way.” It facilitates cultural pluralism and paves the way for an ecologically sustainable world**//
//<span class="s2">**Bowers 06**</span> – Professor of Environmental Studies @ University of Oregon [C. A. Bowers (Ph. D. from the University of California in educational studies with an emphasis on education and social thought, <span class="s5">Renewing the Commons: University Reform in an Era of Weakened Democracy and Environmental Crises</span>,]//

//The alternative is what I shall call “the third way” to curriculum reform//
//AND//
//industrial and more ecologically sustainable world? Pg. 19-20// 1nc
=Gender K= 
**IR is profoundly gendered. The process of making foreign policy relies upon a discourse of danger designed to secure the legitimation of masculine hegemony to suppress the feminine other. looking to the state as the primary actor in international relations makes violence inevitable**
**Steans 98** [Senior Lecturer in International Relations Theory, Director of the Graduate School for the University of Birmingham, 1998 (Jill, Gender and International Relations, An Introduction, page 108-109)]
Critical approaches to International Relations criticize the state centrism of realism, not only because
AND
community men construct and by which they come to understand their lives.24

**Ignorance of gender makes their methodology suspect – error replication is inevitable. The alternative is to investigate how reality is constituted can we develop a basis for action and avoid error replication**
**Peterson and Runyan 99** [professor of political science at the University of Arizona and professor of women’s studies at Wright State University, 1999 (V. Spike and Anne, <span class="s1">Global Gender Issues</span>, 2nd edition, p. 1-3)]
Whenever we study a topic, we do so through a lens that necessarily focuses
AND
drivers know, outdated maps are inadequate, and potentially disastrous, guides.

**Interrogating the gendered nature of IR solves.**
**Peterson and Runyan 99** [professor of political science at the University of Arizona and professor of women’s studies at Wright State University, 1999 (V. Spike and Anne, <span class="s1">Global Gender Issues</span>, 2nd edition, p. 14-15)]
Gender issues surface now because new questions have been raised that cannot be addressed within
AND
global gender inequality by also transforming other oppressive hierarchies at work in the world
=Pos Peace K= 
**The affirmative represents peace as an absence of war, endorsing a worldview that manages outbreaks of violence from flashpoint to flashpoint. But this only creates a negative peace which perpetuates the vicious cycle of violence and militarism that has been endemic to the last century. Positive peace breaks down the deadlock of militarism by creating the possibility of structural change.**
Ha Poong <span class="s1">**Kim**</span> **Philosophy Department, Eastern Illinois University, USA Bulletin of Peace Proposals, Vol. 18, No. 1, 19**87
**Peace denotes a nonwarring condition. This condition may be consequent upon a particular human**
**AND**
**a utopian one: it is a relation humanity is fully capable of.**

By continuing to think of war as an isolated event, we blind ourselves to the fact that war and militarism are an ongoing process woven into the very fabric of our lives. Organizing ourselves in opposition to the flashpoints of conflict reproduces militarism and perpetuates structural violence.
**Chris** Cuomo**. Ph.D., 1992, University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Philosophy University of Cincinnati Hypatia Fall 19**96**.Vol.11, Iss. 4; pg. 30**
**In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," Robin Schott introduces some of the**
**AND**
**the face of what appears to be the inevitability of war and militarism.**
**.**

The representations of the 1AC inculcate a norm of negative peace, we should foster a more pacific discourse that promotes positive peace and social justice. It’s not what they do it’s what they justify- vote negative to reject the affirmatives description of peace as the absence of war
**William C** Gay**. Ph.D. in Philosophy from Boston College, Prof. UNC, Peace Review, Dec 19**98**.Vol.10, Iss. 4; pg. 545-8
Many times the first step in reducing linguistic violence is to simply refrain from the
AND
equally operative in the means whereby we overcome linguistic violence and social injustice.
=Revolutionary Ethics K= 
**The Aff poses the question of ethics only insofar as it relates to the domain of politics. Tying ethical reorientation of ourselves with the reorientation of our collective political spheres takes precedent and produces ethics and our relationship with others merely as a backgroung for political transformations. The aff makes the question not how we can change ourselves but instead how we can change our institutions to change ourselves. This process produces mediated relationships that make genuine ethical engagement impossible.**
**Zupancic ‘2k**
[Alenka. Institute of Philosophy @ U of Ljubljana. The Ethics of the Real: Kant and Lacan, 2000. Pg 10-11//]//

//In other words, … the faculty of desire as a priori.// 


//**The belief that our activism must respond to the political conditions of our time through the leveraging of particular institutional appeals is precisely what nullifies our ethical potential. No matter the force of its opposition, the connection of transformation with an appeal to our institutions mediates our relationships in such a manner that ethical transformation becomes impossible.**// 
//**Hershock ‘99**//
//[Scholar at the East-West Center. “Changing the Way Society Changes” The Journal of Buddhist Ethics, Vol 6. 1999. MUSE//]

I have argued at …right' and 'being wronged'.

**The displacement of our ethics onto external political institutions culminates in genocidal violence. Once we accept that our ethics are contingent on the political, all atrocities become possible.**
**Zupancic ‘2k**
[Institute of Philosophy @ Ljubljana. The Ethics of the Real: Kant and Lacan, March 2000. Pg 96-97//]//
//“Another problem still remains, … a by-product' of our actions.//

//**We advocate the ethical commitment of the 1AC in its immediacy. We will clarify.**//

//**If mediation of our ethics is the source of our ethical bankruptcy, suspending that mediation constitutes the only genuine ethical act.**//
//**Santilli ‘3**//
//[Paul. Siena College. 18 May 03. [[http://www.isud.org/papers/pdfs/Santilli.pdf|www.isud.org/papers/pdfs/Santilli.pdf]]// ]

If we retain this original sense … in the abyss of suffering.
=Tech K= 
<span class="TitleChar">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The affirmatives science and technology studies are infused with power relations and unintended destructive consequences. The alternative is philosophical science and technology, also known as personal Luddism – it is a pre-requisite to the effective outcomes and it’s a better ontological basis for your aff. That means no permutation can exist, discourse come first and shutting out our discourse demonstrates your power obsession</span>**</span>
<span class="TitleChar">**Winner 96**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Langdon Winner is Professor of Political Science in the Department of Science and Technology Studies at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York since 1990. In 1973, Winner graduated with a Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley. He was assistant professor in Leiden, at MIT, at the University of California, Los Angeles and at the University of California, Santa Cruz. From 1985 onwards he worked at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; he was a visiting professor at Harvey Mudd College. The Gloves Come off: Shattered Alliances in Science and Technology Studies Author(s): Langdon WinnerReviewed work(s):Source: Social Text, No. 46/47, Science Wars (Spring - Summer, 1996), pp. 81-91Published by: Duke University PressStable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/466845 .Accessed: 12/05/2012 11:19.]</span>
The acrimonious disputes surrounding social studies of science today reflect long-standing disagreements about
AND
with radical reactionaries, ones marching in the forefront of every backward step.
=Warming K= 
**The affirmative’s apocalyptic rhetoric characterizes warming as an emergency – turns the advantage – our alternative is to use positive and compelling images of a desired future without warming.** 
Hodder and Martin 09 [Brian Martin is Professor of Social Sciences at the University 
AND
food and energy resources, and making the transition away from polluting industries.

**Frames are a prior question**
<span class="s1">**Foust and Murphy 9**</span>-*Associate Professor in the Department of Human Communication Studies @ the University of Denver, PhD in Communication Studies @ University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, **PhD in Communication Studies @ University of Denver (Christina, William, “Revealing and Reframing Apocalyptic Tragedy in Global Warming Discourse” A Journal of 
Nature and Culture, Vol. 3, No. 2, pg. 153-154, [[http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/17524030902916624]], DKP]

While frames ‘‘cannot guarantee how a reader will interpret or comprehend’’ an issue or 
AND
that forecloses all individual judgments’’ (O’Leary, 1993, p. 409).