[[toc]]
=T- Energy= 
**Interpretation – transportation infrastructure is airports, ports, roads, and rail. Pipelines are explicitly defined as energy infrastructure.** 
<span class="s1">**Commander et al. 10**</span> //(NO DATE CITED, 2010 is the copyright date)// *Charles Commander, Sector Leader (Global & Americas) **Jamie Page, Sector Leader (EMEA) ***Stafford Bagot, Sector Leader (APAC) “Engineering, Construction & Infrastructure” http://www.heidrick.com/ExecutiveSearch/Industry/Industrial/Pages/ECI.aspx

While the term infrastructure … schools, hospitals and prisons

=T- In= 
**In means within – this is the core meaning**
<span class="s1">**Encarta World English Dictionary, 7** </span>(“In (1)”, 2007, http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620513)
<span class="s2">in</span><span class="s3"> [ [[http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/Pronounce.aspx?search=in|in]] ] </span><span class="s2">CORE MEANING: a grammatical word indicating that something or somebody is within or inside something</span><span class="s3">. </span>
=T- Land Grants= 
**Investment means the profit can be lost**
<span class="s1">**Weemba No Date**</span>, Weemba is an online financial community that revolutionizes the way Borrowers and professional Lenders find each other and interact. [[http://blog.weemba.com/q-what-is-the-difference-between-an-investment-and-a-loan-can-i-find-investors-through-weemba/]] BK
*Weemba includes the following people: Constancio Larguia, graduated in International Business at Universidad de San Andrés in Argentina. Martin Arriola, Chief Operating Officer. Matthew Reid, Masters Degree in Accounting Information Systems and was licensed as a CPA in 1995. James Clavijo, Masters Degree in Accounting and obtained his CPA license from the state of Florida. Clara Olivera, Finance & Accounting. Sebastian Bellora, Chief Technology Officer. BK
<span class="s2">A: </span><span class="s3">Loans must be repaid; i...</span><span class="s2"> business or other ownership.</span>

**Transportation investment requires federal funding**
<span class="s1">**Warner, 11**</span> – US Senator who introduced this bill into the Senate (introduced by Mark Warner and Mark Kirk, “S. 1968: A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation to establish a pilot program to increase accountability with respect to outcomes of transportation investments, and for other purposes,” December 8, 2011, [[http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)//RD]]
‘(5) TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENT- <span class="s4">**The term ‘transportation investment’ means F...**</span> section 134 or 135 of title 23.

**The plan increases private investment with guaranteed payback**
<span class="s1">**Burroughs, 1AC Author, 09**</span> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)
When presented in this light, ...t in the railroad’s <span class="s4">bonds</span>.
=T-Maintenence= 
**Infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance**
**Lemer 11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%e2%80%9cenough%e2%80%9d/|How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

__What has been neglected__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ... are often squeezed, forcing neglect.</span>
=T- Military= 
**Interpretation: Infrastructure is physical capital that provides** <span class="s1">**public services**</span> **– it excludes the military**
<span class="s2">**Fourie 6** – </span>Chief Operating Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa (Johan, ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE: A REVIEW OF DEFINITIONS, THEORY AND EMPIRICS, 9/06, South African Journal of Economics, Vol 74, Issue 3, Wiley Online Library)//EM
One way to define infrastructure ...transportation modalities and utilitcies.
=T- Pre-Existing= 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Interpretation: Increase requires making an already existing thing greater</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Buckley et al, 06 - </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Calibri; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-latin;">attorney (Jeremiah, Amicus Curiae Brief, Safeco Ins. Co. of America et al v. Charles Burr et al, </span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Calibri; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-latin; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://supreme.lp.findlaw.com/supreme_court/briefs/06-84/06-84.mer.ami.mica.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Calibri; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-latin;">)</span>

First, the court said that the ordinary meaning of the word “increase”
AND

a phrase gathers meaning from the words around it”) (citation omitted).


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">“Transportation investment” means addition to existing networks</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Berechman 2</span></span> (Yossi, Professor of Public Policy – Tel Aviv University, Transport and Economic Development, p. 114)

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">4.1. Basic definitions</span>

In the present context, "transportation investment" is defined as a capacity improvement

AND

condition is a fundamental one. fully discussed in section 5.2.

=T-Substantial= 
**Interpretation – Substantial is 556 billion dollars**
**Michele 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Principal/Founder of Policy in Motion, completed her Master’s of Science degree in Transportation Technology and Policy from the University of California, Obama Spreads Valentine Love to Transportation with $556B Proposal: Infrastructure Bank, Livability Grants, Doubling Transit Funds By Lauren Michele, February 16, 2011 http://policyinmotion.com/2011/02/obama-spreads-valentine-love-to-transportation-with-556b-proposal-infrastructure-bank-livability-grants-doubling-transit-funds/</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In his 2012 fiscal year... on expanding high-speed rail.</span>

=<span style="font-size: 20px;">T- Vehicles</span>= 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Transportation infrastructure excludes vehicles**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**EEA 12 -** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">European Environmental Agency ("Transportation Infrastructure Investments" European Environment Agency, February 17, 2012 [[http://www.eea.europa.eu/data-and-maps/indicators/infrastructure-investments]])</span>
__The term “transport infrastructure” ..____s vehicles and rolling stock.__