= = 
[[toc]]
=Round One vs. Pine Crest MM--Fuel Cell Bus Program= 
==Ptx--2NR== 

Will pass – bipartisan support for a solution
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Allvoices 1-6</span> (“113th Congress: Powers align around immigration reform right from the start” http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/13747972-113th-congress-powers-align-around-immigration-reform-right-from-the-start)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Both </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Republican and Democratic </span>congressional leaders<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> state .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> scene of the 113th Congress will offer a spectacle to the nation who knows that immigration has been an unaddressed problem for far too long.</span>

GOP hates federal bus projects
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lallanilla 12 </span>(Marc Lallanilla, Science, health and environmental journalist, member of the Society of Environmental Journalists, Graduated from UT-Austin. “Hard Right: The Republican Platform and the Planet” 2012. http://greenliving.about.com/od/greenprograms/a/Republican-Environmental-Platform.htm)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Republican Platform and Mass Transit</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Every day, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">millions of people across .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> interests, the 2012 Republican platform has lost any semblance of respectability or integrity. And we will all lose if they succeed in furthering their virulently anti-environmental agenda.</span>


Capital is key --- it bridges support from both parties.
//D//allas //M//orning //N//ews, **1/2**/2012 (Editorial: Actions must match Obama’s immigration pledge, p. http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The president’s words</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to NBC’s David Gregory </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">are only that — words. </span>What will <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">really </span>matter .....<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> get done.” President Barack </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama, in an interview on Meet the Press Sunday</span>

CIT’s key to Latin American relations
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Shifter 12</span> Michael is the President of Inter-American Dialogue. “Remaking the Relationship: The United States and Latin America,” April, IAD Policy Report, http://www.thedialogue.org/PublicationFiles/IAD2012PolicyReportFINAL.pdf
Some<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> enduring </span>problems stand<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> squarely </span>in the way of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> partnership .....disregard the United States’ hemispheric agenda as well as the interests of other nations.</span>


Relations are key to solve a laundry list of existential threats---the brink is now
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Shifter 12</span> Michael is the President of Inter-American Dialogue. “Remaking the Relationship: The United States and Latin America,” April, IAD Policy Report, http://www.thedialogue.org/PublicationFiles/IAD2012PolicyReportFINAL.pdf
There are compelling reasons for the U<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates </span>and Latin America to ..... Hemispheric affairs require //urgent attention//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">—both from the United States and from Latin America and the Caribbean.</span>
==T--Vehicles== 

The affirmative is not topical – they increase investment in vehicles – they’re distinct from transportation infrastructure
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">CFST 06</span> – Campaign for Sensible Transportation, collection of organizations for better transportation in the Santa Cruz area (“Aboard Transportation”, 2006, http://www.cfst.org/transportation.html)//RD
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Transportation or transport is the carrying of people and goods from one destination ......lights/signals on roads, ramp meters, railroad switches, air traffic control, and etc.</span>




==States CP--2NR== 

The 50 states and all relevant territories should
-substantially increase their transportation infrastructure investment in an expanded fuel cell bus program.
-fund basic R&D on finding alternative catalysts for hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles.

States are already expanding tech leadership—they can’t leverage their heg advantage as a solvency deficit
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Curtin et al 11</span>
Sandra Curtin, Jennifer Gangi and Elizabeth Delmont of Fuel Cells 2000, an activity of Breakthrough Technologies Institute in Washington, DC STATE OF THE STATES: FUEL CELLS IN AMERICA http://www.fuelcells.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/2011-State-of-States-July-2011-update.pdf
America’s fuel cell footprint is growing<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> tremendously, </span>helping to keep the .....<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> fuel cell-powered forklifts.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> • Air Products reports 347,000 hydrogen fuelings per year at its fueling stations and hydrogen dispensers.</span>
CP reduces demand for platinum
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Yang 9</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(May 2009, Chi-Jen Yang, Research Scientist, Center on Global Change, Duke University, TA in Environmental Policy and Economics @ MIT 1998, MS in Technology and Policy from MIT 1999, MS in Civil and Environmental Engineering from MIT 1999, MS in Environmental Engineering. National Taiwan University. 1995, Doctor of Philosophy in Public Affairs., Volume 37, Issue 5, “An impending platinum crisis and its implications for the future of the automobile,” http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301421509000457, ngoetz)</span>

I conclude that <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">commercial demonstration of platinum-based hydrogen .....Policymakers should weigh the energy security impacts of potential platinum monopoly and speculation</span>.

Plan and perm increase demand for platinum
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Anthony 7</span> (Mark Anthony, IT professional and who had a scientific research background before joining the information revolution with Seeking Alpha. “Palladium: An Investable Metal That Defies Physics” November 25, 2007. http://seekingalpha.com/article/55173-palladium-an-investable-metal-that-defies-physics)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Palladium</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">'s many emerging usages relate to the fact that it defies another physics law. .....</span>So that will be a booming demand to drive PGM metal prices to crazily high levels<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">which will definitely help the stock prices of North American Palladium (PAL) in the long term.</span>


That causes a resource war with China
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Daly 8 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(February 29, 2008, John C. K. Daly, chief analyst at the energy news site Oilprice.com, received his Ph.D. in 1986 from the School of Slavonic and East European Studies, University of London, China Brief Volume: 8 Issue: 3, “Feeding the Dragon: China's Quest for African Minerals,” [[http://www.frankhaugwitz.eu/doks/security/2008_01_China_Quest_for_Minerals_in_Africa_Jamestown.pdf]], ngoetz)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">China and South Africa </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Out of the 54 countries and the island territories in Africa, Beijing regards South Africa ...... prices for copper, zinc, lead, tin, chromium, platinum, molybdenum, coal, oil and uranium also set multi-year or all-time highs [10]. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Extinction</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Klare 6 </span>
(Michael T. Klare Ph.D, Professor Of Peace And World Security Studies At Hampshire University, “The Coming Resource Wars” http://www.alternet.org/story/33243/the_coming_resource_wars, 3/10/2006)

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">It's official</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">: the era of resource wars is upon us</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. In a major London address, ..... ground among scientists and thoughtful analysts around the world.</span>



==Oil Dependence CP== 

The United States federal government should implement a targeted carbon tax on transportation fuels and reinvest revenues into targeted infrastructure improvements.

Targeted carbon tax and reinvestment solves
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Raborn 10 </span>(Craig, Transportation Policy Analyst, studies in this article conducted by: SIMTRAVE model developed by the Climate Change Policy Partnership (CCPP) at Duke University’s Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions, “EffectsofReinvestingTransportationCarbonFeeRevenuesinTransportationInfrastructure”, 12/10)
Reinvesting revenues from a transportation fuels carbon fee into targeted ......<span style="font-size: 8px;"> and¶ transportation policy objectives to increase understanding of how these two policy arenas interact and¶ further explore how transportation policies can also serve as effective climate policies.</span>




=Round Three vs. Whitney Young DV--Inland Waterways= 

==Ptx--2NR== 

Same as round one

Funding the plan is unpopular
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Glass 11</span>
Pamela Glass, Washington Watch, “Inland waterways funding: Tax increases or user fees?”, September 22, 2011 http://www.workboat.com/blogpost.aspx?id=11232
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Just before Christmas, the inland waterways industry found coal in its stocking .....This leaves us with a murky future for the reform of inland infrastructure funding. There is still a lot of work to be done.</span>

==QTR CP--2NR== 

Text – the Department of Energy should alter the Quadrennial Technology Review to include a recommendation to ­­­substantially increase its investment in the Marine Transportation System.
Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates
Charles H. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">"Policy statements"</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">differ</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">from substantive rules that carry the "force of law</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">," </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">.....</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> urges that statements and interpretative rules have virtually the same effect Ronald in Levin, Nonlegislative Rules and the Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).</span>


CP solves the aff – changes future budget decisions.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tollefson -11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Jeff Tollefson, DOE releases first Quadrennial Technology Review, September 27, 2011, http://blogs.nature.com/news/2011/09/doe_releases_first_quadrennial_1.html)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> US Department of Energy (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">DOE) released its</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> inaugural </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Quadrennial Technology Review</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> on ..... the document recommends setting up a permanent group within the DOE that can focus on energy markets, business, policy analysis and, most intriguingly, social sciences.</span>


Solves the Case---the practical result is the same as binding law---the policy statement sends the signal of the plan and causes agencies to implement it
James <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hunnicutt 99,</span> J.D., Boston College Law School, December 1999, “NOTE: Another Reason to Reform the Federal Regulatory System: Agencies' Treating Nonlegislative Rules as Binding Law,” Boston College Law Review, 41 B.C. L. Rev 153, p. lexis
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Depending on whether a rule is adopted with or without notice-and-comment process, .....</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">[*</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">173] </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">rules as law, agencies can</span>//convince the public//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> into following nonlegislative rules</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">T--Operations</span>== 


A. The affirmative is not topical – they increase investment in operations—distinct from transportation infrastructure

CFST 06 – Campaign for Sensible Transportation, collection of organizations for better transportation in the Santa Cruz area (“Aboard Transportation”, 2006, http://www.cfst.org/transportation.html)//RD

Transportation or transport is the carrying of people and goods from one ..... system including traffic lights/signals on roads, ramp meters, railroad switches, air traffic control<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, and etc.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">States CP</span>== 



The 50 states and all relevant territories should substantially increase their investment in the Marine Transportation System.


States overcome any investment solvency deficits

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Puentes 12</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Master’s from UVA, affiliated professor with Georgetown University's Public Policy Institute, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, former director of infrastructure programs at the Intelligent Transportation Society of America ( Robert, April 11, “New Approaches for Infrastructure Finance: State and Local Perspective,” http://www.brookings.edu/research/testimony/2012/04/11-infrastructure-finance-puentes//MGD)//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Increasingly, public infrastructure investment is taking place through innovative finance tools, .....</span>__are taxing themselves, dedicating substantial local money, and **effectively contributing to the construction of the nation's critical infrastructure system**.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[7] </span>//





//**Federal port and waterway projects are hugely inefficient – CP solves best**//

//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Edwards ‘12</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- Editor of Downsizing Government and director of Tax Policy Studies at the Cato Institute (Chris, "Cutting the Army Corps of Engineers", Downsizinggovernment.org - a project of the Cato Institute, 3/14/2012, http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/usace)</span>// MO



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Overview </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is a federal agency that .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of the Corps that are truly federal in nature should be transferred to the Department of the Interior.</span> <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The civilian side of the Army Corps should be closed down.</span>