[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 


=BRILLIANT EYES AND SEESAWS= 
==Contention 1 – Inherency== 
1. NO BRILLIANT EYES OR PARTICLE BEAMS NOW – OBAMA WILL NOT WEAPONIZE
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Missile Threat.com</span>, A project of the Claremont Institute, 2-29-200<span style="font-size: 13pt;">8</span>, “Obama Pledges Cuts in Missile Defense, Space, and Nuclear Weapons Programs,“ http://www.missilethreat.com/archives/id.7086/detail.asp
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A video has surfaced of Presidential candidate Senator </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">protecting the American people. Thanks so much.</span>
2. NO SYSTEM EXISTS NOW THAT CAN COUNTER THREATS POSED BY BALLISTIC MISSILES
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Independent Working Group</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The Independent Working Group is co-chaired by Dr. Robert Pfaltzgraff, President of the Institute of Foreign Policy Analysis (IFPA) at Tufts University, and by Dr. William R. Van Cleave, Professor Emeritus of the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, and a member of the original U.S. delegation which drafted the 1972 ABM Treaty. Ambassador Henry F. Cooper, who in former roles oversaw both development of missile defense for the U.S. and was chief negotiator to the Geneva Defense and Space Talks, Dr. Robert Jastrow, founding director of NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies, and Dr. Lowell Wood, a Physicist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and Commissioner on the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) were among the numerous missile defense, space, and security experts from the scientific, technical, and national security policy communities around the country who are members of the Independent Working Group. Members of the Working Group also include Brian T. Kennedy, president of the Claremont Institute, and Thomas Karako, Director of Programs at the Claremont Institute and editor of Missilethreat.com. Sponsors and authors of the IWG report include eight think-tanks headquartered in Washington D.C., California, Alaska, Missouri, Massachusetts, and around the country (Collective report/study)) 20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century”, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, Inc., https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">So far, however, the United States </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">missiles such as Scuds from off-shore vessel</span>
3. MISSILE DEFENSE BEING CUT NOW.
Roxana<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Tiron</span>, 6-15-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, writer, “Lockheed’s Anti-Missile System Targeted for Cuts in U.S. Senate,” Bloomberg, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/lockheed-s-anti-missile-system-targeted-for-cuts-in-u-s-senate.html
U.S. senators are aiming to
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Medium Extended Air Defense System, or Meads. </span>
==PLAN== 
===THE Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency SHOULD IMPLEMENT THE BRILLIANT EYES PROGRAM AND THE SEESAW PROGRAM.=== 
==CONTENTION 2 – BRILLIANT EYES== 
4. BRILLIANT EYES – TRACKING MISSILES ERRYDAY
John <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pike</span>, one of the world's leading experts on defense, space and intelligence policy Director of GlobalSecurity.org, 7-21-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, “Brilliant Eyes,” http://www.globalsecurity.org/space/systems/be.htm
**__Space systems__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> could </span>**__play a very important role__**
**__AND__**
**__which are cooler and have less radiant energy.__**

5. CRYOCOOLED TO MAX SOLVENCY – LASTS FOREVVURR
John **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pike</span>**, one of the world's leading
AND
org/space/systems/be.htm
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By </span>**__1994 a new regenerator for cryocoolers had__**
**__AND__**
**__high heat capacity at temperatures approaching absolute zero.__**
==CONTENTION 3 – SEESAW== 
6. HITTING MISSILES NEAR THE SPEED OF LIGHT
Doctor Richard M. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roberds</span>, Associate Prof @ Engineering Technology Department @ Clemson U, 07-19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">84</span>, “Introducing the Particle-Beam Weapon,” http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/aureview/1984/jul-aug/roberds.html
**__The advanced technology that has raised the possibility__**
**__AND__**
**__only fuel for the power generator is needed.__**
7. WE HAVE THE POWER OF ZEUS AND PHYSICS PROVES THAT WE DO
Doctor Richard M. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roberds</span>, Associate Prof @ Engineering Technology Department @ Clemson U, 07-19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">84</span>, “Introducing the Particle-Beam Weapon,” http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/aureview/1984/jul-aug/roberds.html
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The particle beam itself is analogous to a </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">volts multiplied by the beam current in amperes.</span>
8. SIX THINGS MAKE THIS DEADLY – VELOCITY, TIME, RAPID-AIM, PENETRATION, ALL-WEATHER KILLING, AND EMP COMBO
Doctor Richard M. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roberds</span>, Associate Prof @ Engineering Technology Department @ Clemson U, 07-19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">84</span>, “Introducing the Particle-Beam Weapon,” http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/aureview/1984/jul-aug/roberds.html
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One of the phenomenological aspects under study is </span>
**__AND__**
**__penetrating power of a particle-beam weapon.__**
==CONTENTION 4 – HEG== 
9. THE US IS LOSING ITS PRE-EMINENCE IN SPACE
Forrest E <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morgan</span>, senior political scientist at the RAND corporation, Ph.D. in policy studies, University of Maryland, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span>, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space a Preliminary Assessment,” RAND Corporation
**__Space stability is a fundamental U.S__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (See pp. 7–16.)</span>

10. US DECLINE OF HEG WOULD BE HISTORICALLY UNPRECEDENTED AND RESULT IN MAJOR CONFLICT AND GLOBAL WAR
Robert A. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pape</span>, Professor of political science at the University of Chicago, February 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">09</span>, “Empire Falls,” The National Interest
The United States has always prided itself on
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">economics, but also because of their destabilizing consequences</span>

11. SPACE BMD KEY TO EXTENDED DETERRENCE – SOLVE ALLIED PROLIF
Robert <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pfaltzgraff</span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> et al</span>**, PhD and Professor of Int. Security Studies @ Tufts and President @ the IFPA, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">09</span>, “Report of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century,” Prepared by the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the years ahead the United States should </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">S. missile defense assets to the region.</span>

12. EXTENDED DETERRENCE IS NECESSARY TO STOP REGIONAL NUCLEAR CONFLICTS
Marc Dean **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Millot</span>**, social scientist at the RAND Corporation, Summer 19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">94</span>, The Washington Quarterly
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The outcome of this refusal to face the </span>
**__AND__**
**__forces being dragged into a regional nuclear conflict.__**

13. SPACE DOMINANCE SOLVES EVERY SCENARIO FOR NUCLEAR WAR
John **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Miller</span>**, former editor of Reason and
AND
” National Review vol 54 no 13, ProQuest
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With the right mix of intellectual firepower and </span>
**__AND__**
**__immeasurably safer for America and what it values.__**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">14. SPACE DOMINANCE IS KEY TO MAKING HEG SUSTAINABLE</span>**
Everett **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dolman</span>**, associate professor of comparative military
AND
-**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2005</span>**, “US Military Transformation and Weapons
in Space,” http://www.eparl
AND
20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This rationality does not dispute the fact that </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">race, save graciously decide to step aside.</span>

15. COLLAPSE OF HEG CAUSES GREAT POWER TRANSITION WARS, DESTROYS DEMOCRATIC PEACE, AND CAUSES ECONOMIC COLLAPSE - MULTIPOLARITY CAN’T PROVIDE FOR STABILITY OR SOLVE A PLETHORA OF GLOBAL PROBLEMS.
Bradley <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thayer</span>, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, December, 200<span style="font-size: 13pt;">6</span>, "In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, Lexis.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">only practical hope of solving the world's ills.</span>
==CONTENTION 5 – CHINA== 
16. CHINA-US TENSIONS HIGH NOW – FIGHT OVER SPRATLEY ISLANDS FOR RESOURCES
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Voice of Russia,</span> Russian Newspaper, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">10-19</span>-2011, “U.S. and Philippines test China's military nerves,” http://english.ruvr.ru/2011/10/19/58988699.html
The U.S and the Philippines are
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">it pursues independent policy in South Easth Asia. </span>
17. CHINA WILL COME OUT SWINGING IN A FIGHT FOR OIL – NUKES, ACBM, ASAT
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Economic Times</span>, “China's 'peaceful' coercion,” <span style="font-size: 13pt;">10-19</span>-2011 http://articles.economictimes.indiatimes.com/2011-10-19/news/30297870_1_anti-ship-india-china-south-china-sea/2
A recentPentagonreportwarns<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> India </span>about challenges
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and is the monopoly of China's Communist Party.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">18. THE PLA IS INTENT ON AGGRESSIVELY COMPETING WITH U.S. POWER IN SPACE – THEY ARE IN THE PROCESS OF DEVELOPING MILITARY CAPABILITIES AND COMBAT STRATEGIES THAT WOULD NEUTRALIZE OUR SATELLITE NETWORK, COLLAPSE NUCLEAR DETERRENCE AND GUARANTEE CATASTROPHIC CONFLICT </span>**
Richard D. **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fisher</span>**, Senior Fellow @
AND
pubID.222/pub_detail.asp
**__China's__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jan. 11 </span>**__test of exoatmospheric missile__**
**__AND__**
**__and in turn threaten the region's economic growth.__**

19. CHINESE ASATs ARE USED TO DESTROY SURVEILLANCE SATELLITES OVER TAIWAN – LEADS TO U.S. BLIND AND CONFLICT.
Ian **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Easton</span>**, Research Fellow at the 2049
AND
great_game_in_space.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Any possible </span>U.S. military contingency
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chinese shift towards fielding ASAT weapons could have.</span>

20. A CHINA-US WAR OVER TAIWAN GOES NUCLEAR, CAUSING EXTINCTION
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Straits Times</span> (Singapore), June 25, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2000</span>, “No one gains in war over Taiwan<span style="font-size: 8pt;">”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross</span>
AND
, we would see the destruction of civilisation.

21. SPACE BMD SOLVES ASATS
Howard <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kleinberg</span>, member of the graduate faculty of the Department of Public & International Affairs at University of North Carolina Wilmington, April 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, “A Global Missile Defense 'network': Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,” US Army Field Artillery Association
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fortunately, this recently -revealed, real</span>
AND
shots with which to try to stop any ASAT
== == 

=Irony AFF= 
==Contention 1 - Inherency== 
Amurican society is crumbling, in utter shambles from its previous glory. We were once explorers and settlers. We used to stand for liberty and democracy. Now we have a stifling bureaucracy and everything on TV stinks. We need to expand, we need to progress or we will die!
Robert <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zubrin</span>, former Chairman of the National Space Society, PhD Nuclear Engineering, President of Mars Society & Pioneer Astronautics, 19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">94, </span>“The Significance of the Martian Frontier”, Ad Astra Sept/Oct, http://www.nss.org/settlement/mars/zubrin-frontier.html
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Turner presented his paper in 1893. Just </span>
//AND//
//, reason, science and progress will die.//

===Thus, we present the plan: The United States federal government should launch our long, smooth rockets into space to spread humanization, liberty, and Capitalism across the galaxy which will save the human race by colonizing the Moon with the resources mined from Uranus=== 

==Contention 2 – The Moon== 
U.S. space dominance slipping
J.P. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stevens</span>, Vice President for Space Systems, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">no date</span>, “ Maintain U.S. global leadership in space”, [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/issues_policies/space/maintain/]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Maintain U.S. global leadership in </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">supported by a healthy and innovative industrial sector.</span>

COLLAPSE OF HEG CAUSES GREAT POWER TRANSITION WARS, DESTROYS DEMOCRATIC PEACE, AND CAUSES ECONOMIC COLLAPSE - MULTIPOLARITY CANNOT PROVIDE FOR STABILITY OR SOLVE A PLETHORA OF GLOBAL PROBLEMS.
Bradley <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thayer</span>, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, December, 200<span style="font-size: 13pt;">6</span>, "In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, Lexis.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">only practical hope of solving the world's ills.</span>

==CONTENTION 3 – URANUS== 
Mining Uranus for He3 is feasible
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ackerman, 11</span> [Evan, “Harvesting gas from Uranus could power an interstellar spaceship,” //DVice//, June 2, 2011. <http://dvice.com/archives/2011/06/floating-gas-mi.php>]
Helium-3 isn't easy to find on
//AND//
//and Uranus wouldn't even notice we'd stolen it.//

=== === 
Wait, wait, wait, wait. This is all wrong. Democracy promotion? Free trade? America first? This is all the propaganda put out by the right wing. Let’s take a step back and look to where all this started.

==Contention 4 – MARXIST HISTORY== 
Let’s go back to 1961. A beautiful day, the sun shining a salute to the American race, President Kennedy standing before the young, eager minds at Rice University. With the blessings of the Capitalist gods, he delivered a powerful speech
John F. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kennedy</span>, Former president of the US of A, 19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">61</span>, “We Choose to Go to the Moon,” http://www.historyplace.com/speeches/jfk-space.htm
We choose to go to the moon.
AND
on the new frontier of science and space.
This speech by President Kennedy highlighted a shift in United States policy that sought an ‘uncharted and undiscovered frontier’. The romanticized notions of space exploration in Kennedy’s speech established an imagined national identity bolsteringAmerica’s prestige and mastery over the public audience and outer space. This was the beginning of the capitalist expansion into space
John W. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jordan</span>, 200<span style="font-size: 13pt;">3</span>, “Kennedy’s Romantic Moon and its Rhetorical Legacy for Space Exploration” Rhetoric & Public Affairs. Vol 6 Num 2. Summer 2003. Pg: 209-231
The first component in Kennedy’s strategy of transcendence
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">one of initia- tive rather than pragmatism. </span>



Now fast forward to 2012 with Newty G speaking in Florida
Newt <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gingrich, </span>Ex- Speaker of the House,<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 01-25</span>-2012, “Gingrich promises moon base that could become 51st state,” http://www.rawstory.com/rs/2012/01/25/gingrich-promises-moon-base-that-could-become-51st-state/
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At one point early in my career, </span>
AND
on the moon that flew an American flag.”


Since the Kennedy administration, there has only been an increase in the rhetoric of US Empire and US exceptionalism. This was the formation of the new phantom menace, the Empire.
Michael <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hardt and</span> Antonio <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Negri</span>, Prof @
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Throughout the contemporary transformations, political controls, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the cultural increasingly overlap and invest one another. </span>



And thus we use our affirmative to hollow out space for Historical Materialism, a historical genesis that demonstrates the capitalist origins of this resolution, revealing the commonalities between the dominating nature of US space policy and the history of Empire. We reveal the material relations of the Resolution to show that there is no real difference between the AFF and the NEG, both seek to further a status quo trajectory of US dominance. The space frontier is depicted as an International race and the resolution has predetermined the USFG as the rightful winner.


==Contention 5 – What are we gonna do?== 
That is why in this debate round we choose to take a stance and break away from the Capitalists’ dominant mode of thought. We choose not to play the game anymore. This is our stand, this is the beginning of the rev. You and your ballot signify becoming an active participant in the fight and revolution against the hegemonic dominant world of the empire that is capitalism.
Michael <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hardt and</span> Antonio <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Negri</span>, Prof @
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the postmodern era, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as the figure </span>
AND
and makes rebellion into a project of love.

Our militancy takes the form of irony. We choose to distort the normal means of communication and turn it into something new. We transform the pro US rhetoric and transform the meaning of it into a resistance that breaks free of capital.
Michael <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hardt and</span> Antonio <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Negri</span>, Prof @
AND
(0:30)
The Zapatista National Liberation Army<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (EZLN), </span>
AND
of the postmodern transition of organizational forms. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

This is the best form of resistance
Jessica <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kulynych</span>, Assistant Prof of Political Science @ Winthrop U, 19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">97</span>, “Performing Politics: Foucault, Habermas, and Postmodern Participation,” Polity, Vol. 30, No. 2, pp. 315-346
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the performative protestor does not argue </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that which cannot be argued for finds expression.</span>
Here’s some reasons as to why we should resist capitalist empire an economy of death which produces war, militarism, nuclearism and structural poverty and requires unethical exploitation of surplus labor value
James L. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Marsh</span>, Professor of Philosophy at Fordham University, 19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">95</span>, Critique, Action, and Liberation p. 271-272
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the stage of relative surplus value, </span>
AND
welfare state are only the most recent examples<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

==We will call this the framework Under view== 

Sub point C
1st is our standards
A. Prefer predictability
# <span style="font-size: 13pt;">1. Predictability is key to fairness and without fariness there can never be predictability</span>

# <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2. Predictable ground is the only way to fairness because there is no argument ever for making us think outside the box.</span>

# <span style="font-size: 13pt;">3. And, predictability is good, all we should ever have to do is run our super specific disad that generally links to every topic </span>
B. Topic Education

# <span style="font-size: 13pt;">1. only talking about policies is great, that way we will always act completely rational. C’mon congress the cold war was just the heat of the moment. </span>
C. And, footnote Joyner in 99, role playing is awesome so yeah. My dream is to be Obama!
D. Realism is inevitable and is so real its like an absolute truth Mearshiemer in 2001
E. They have the burden of rejoinder because we read this portion of the 1AC it places a burden upon them to reply by certified mail within 7-10 days their response should include no less then four pages, typed and double spaced in 11 point times new roman.
F. Footnote Ignatif here because ivory towers are bad for 2 reasons
1. they usually don’t have doors and usually require fairy tale women to escape
2. buildings made of soap dissolve in the rain
3. The impact is Elephant commoditization which is a systemic impact and must be prioritized
And finally I’ll footnote Shivley here because we don’t have agreement this debate becomes LITERALLY IMPOSSIBLE!

=ORS= 
==PLAN== 
===PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD FULLY FUND AND DEVELOP ALL SPACE-BASED ASPECTS OF ALL THREE TIERS OF OPERATIONALLY RESPONSIVE SPACE. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO CLARIFY.=== 
==CONTENTION ONE IS INHERENCY== 
1. STATUS QUO FUNDING IS JUST LIP SERVICE – WON’T RESULT IN FULL-FLEDGED ORS CAPABILITIES.
Joan <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Johnson-Freese</span>, faculty of the Naval War College focusing on space programs and policies, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">09</span>, “Heavenly Ambitions”, University of Pennsylvania Press, http://books.google.com/books/about/Heavenly_ambitions.html?hl=sl&id=O3UCySR-_ZcC
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Everett also argues for reexamining our national space </span>
AND
is sacrificed <span class="underline">for more near-term programs.</span>

2. ORS IS RECEIVING CUTS – TECHNOLOGY WILL BE SLOWED
Turner <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brinton,</span> Staff writer, 2-5-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span> “U.S. Air Force Scales Back Missile Warning Technology Program”, Space News, http://www.spacenews.com/military/1002
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, the Pentagon’s </span>Operationally Responsive Space<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Office </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">short notice would be slowed</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Payton said.</span>

3. A PROTOTYPE OF AN ORS SYSTEM HAS RECENTLY BEEN DEPLOYED – THIS TRIGGERS THE LINKS TO YOUR DA’S.
Chris <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Carroll,</span> reporter for Stars and Stripes, 7-25-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, “CENTCOM's spy satellite set to beam images from war zones”, Stars and Stripes, http://www.stripes.com/news/centcom-s-spy-satellite-set-to-beam-images-from-war-zones-1.150088qq
ORS-1, developed by the Pentagon’s
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">tiny Hubble Space Telescope tilted toward the Earth.</span>
==CONTENTION TWO IS MISCALCULATION== 
1. CURRENT VULNERABILITIES IN US SPACE ASSETS ARE THE BIGGEST WEAKNESSES OF DETERRENCE – MULTIPLE ADVERSARIES WITH DIFFERENT MILITARY DOCTRINES INVITE ATTACK.
James<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Rendleman</span>, retired Colonel of the U.S. Airforce, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span>, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Astropolitics, 8: 200-225, Ebsco Political Science
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.</span>

2. SPACE IS THE ULTIMATE HIGH GROUND – 2.5 THOUSAND YEARS OF HISTORY PROVES NATIONS WILL COMPETE BECAUSE OF TERRESTRIAL TIES.
M.V. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith</span>, Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf
It is a rule in strategy<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, one </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">once or stretch them slowly over time.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">21</span>

3. THE RISK OF CRISIS INSTABILITY AND MISCALCULATION IN SPACE IS VERY HIGH AND LIKELY TO GROW – THE PLA IS LIKELY TO INITIATE AN ATTACK IN A CRISIS.
Bruce <span style="font-size: 13pt;">MacDonald</span>, Senior Director of the Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program and U.S. Insitute of Peace, 5-11-20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, CQ Congressional Testimony, lexis
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">One characteristic of too many </span>wars in the
AND
space instability seems <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">high and </span>likely to grow.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">4. THE PLA IS INTENT ON AGGRESSIVELY COMPETING WITH U.S. POWER IN SPACE – THEY ARE IN THE PROCESS OF DEVELOPING MILITARY CAPABILITIES AND COMBAT STRATEGIES THAT WOULD NEUTRALIZE OUR SATELLITE NETWORK, COLLAPSE NUCLEAR DETERRENCE AND GUARANTEE CATASTROPHIC CONFLICT </span>**
Richard D. **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fisher</span>**, Senior Fellow @
AND
pubID.222/pub_detail.asp
**__China's__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jan. 11 </span>**__test of exoatmospheric missile__**
**__AND__**
**__and in turn threaten the region's economic growth.__**

5. INDEPENDENTLY, PERCEIVED US VULNERABILITY TO A CHINESE ASAT ATTACK WILL CAUSE A PREEMPTIVE FIRST STRIKE – ESCALATES TO NUCLEAR WAR
Ashley <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tellis</span>, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Survival, Autumn 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span>, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, Survival, ingenta
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, the growing Chinese capability for space </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">added complications of accidents and further misperception.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">96</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">6. A CHINA-US WAR OVER TAIWAN GOES NUCLEAR, CAUSING EXTINCTION</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Straits Times</span>** (Singapore), June 25, **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2000</span>**, “No one gains in war over Taiwan<span style="font-size: 8pt;">”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross</span>
**__AND__**
**__, we would see the destruction of civilisation.__**

7. FULLY FUNDING ORS IMPROVES SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS; THIS PREVENTS MISCALC SCENARIOS FROM OCCURRING.
Timothy <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sejba</span>, USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Asssistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, May 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span>, “ Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, High Frontier, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">One area of greatest concern to the US </span>
AND
true on-orbit ORS Tier 1 capability<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>
==CONTENTION THREE IS THE AEROSPACE INDUSTRY== 
1. THE AEROSPACE INDUSTRY IS JEOPARDY.
Joseph C. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Anselmo</span>, Deputy managing editor at Aviation Week, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">AND</span> Carole Rickard <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hedden</span>, President of Write Stuff and Project Leader for Aviation week’s Workforce Study, 8-19-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, “Aerospace Workforce Crisis Deferred”, http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=awst&id=news/awst/2011/08/22/AW_08_22_2011_p44-354084.xml
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>on the defense and space side of
AND
to develop and build all-new products.”

2. ORS WILL SOLVE THE AEROSPACE INDUSTRY.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AIA </span>(Aerospace Industries Association), <span style="font-size: 9pt;">represent leading manufacturers and suppliers of civil, military, and business aircraft, helicopters, unmanned aircraft systems, space systems, aircraft engines, missiles, materiel and related components, equipment, services and information technology, </span>March 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span>, “Operationally Responsive Space: An AIA Priority,” http://www.aia-aerospace.org/newsroom/publications/aia_eupdate/march_2010_eupdate/new_aia_report_on_operationally_responsive_space_launch_systems/
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AIA has released a new white paper in </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">healthy competition in the satellite and launch sectors.</span>

3. ORS DEMAND WILL SPUR COMMERCIAL SPACE INNOVATION AND KEEP SMALL FIRMS ALIVE.
Zoe <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Szajnfarber et. Al</span>., Graduate Research Assistant, Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems Division at MIT, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>, “Implications of DoD Acquisition Policy for Innovation: The Case of Operationally Responsive Space,” http://web.mit.edu/mgr/www/Portfolio/Implications%20of%20DoD%20Acquisition%20Policy%20for%20Innovation.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Operationally Responsive Space has been defined broadly by </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">may be more inclined to take the initiative.</span>

4. SMALL SATELLITES REDUCE COSTS AND ENSURE THAT THE AEROSPACE INDUSTRY WILL RETAIN CAPABILITIES NECESSARY FOR MILITARY SATELLITES.
Les <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Doggrell,</span> senior project engineer with the Aerospace Corporation, 6-1-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">06</span>, “Operationally Responsive Space A Vision for the Future of Military Space,” Air and Space Power Journal, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/doggrell.html
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">More, smaller spacecraft launched on shorter mission </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">new missions or new approaches to existing missions.</span>

5. AEROSPACE INDUSTRY COLLAPSE WILL BE FAST AND TAKE DECADES TO RECOVER FROM—WE’VE REACHED THE TIPPING POINT.
Jim <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Albaugh</span>, Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and member of the International Academy of Astronautics , 4-27-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, “Keeping America’s Lead in Aerospace”, Speech to the 10th Annual Aviation Summit US Chamber of Commerce, http://www.aia-aerospace.org/newsroom/speeches_testimony/
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Today </span>we take America’s industrial base for granted
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">launch vehicle. To me, that’s unconscionable.</span>

6. THE AEROSPACE INDUSTRY IS KEY TO THE U.S. ECONOMY.
Owen <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hernnstadt</span>, director of Trade and Globalization @ IAMAW, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>, “Offsets and the lack of a comprehensive U.S. policy,” Economic Policy Institute, http://www.sharedprosperity.org/bp201.html
Aerospace is an especially important industry for a
AND
detrimental to U.S. national interests.

7. ECONOMIC DECLINE LEADS TO GLOBAL WAR
Jedediah <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal</span>, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2010,</span> “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span>economic decline
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span>
==SOLVENCY== 
1. THE PLAN GIVES ORS THE FUNDING IT NEEDS TO BE SUCCESSFUL.
Scott D. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Peel</span>, Lt. Col in the USAF, 10-30-20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>, “Fixing the Nation’s Space Launch Woes: Operationally Responsive Space for Tomorrow’s Joint Force Commander—Panacea or Pipedream”, Naval War College, http://www.dtic.mil/docs/citations/ADA494381
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally,</span>to be successful, ORS requires
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">upon the military services to incorporate JFC requirements.</span>

2. FULLY FUNDING ORS IS VITAL TO EFFECTIVE USE OF MILITARY SPACE AND REDUCING DEPENDENCE ON THE COMMERCIAL SECTOR.
Scott D. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Peel</span>, Lt Col in the USAF, 10-30-20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>, “Fixing the Nation’s Space Launch Woes: Operationally Responsive Space for Tomorrow’s Joint Force Commander—Panacea or Pipedream”, Naval War College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/docs/citations/ADA494381]]
The force enhancement and force multiplying effects provided
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">at the unified combatant commands and service components.</span>


=Negative= 
=Empire Shell= 
**The Affirmative’s desire to project power on a global scale is the unification of national organisms under the rule of heg, this is the coming of the new phantom menace, the Empire.**
Michael <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hardt and</span> Antonio <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Negri</span>, Prof @
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Throughout the contemporary transformations, political controls, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the cultural increasingly overlap and invest one another. </span>
**Empire guarantees the ultimate form of biopower, they rule with the mighty Death Star hanging over us. No other impact scenario compares, as nuclear war will not happen.**
Michael <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hardt and</span> Antonio <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Negri</span>, Prof @
Imperial control operates through<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> three global and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">absolute </span>
AND
the absolute inversion of the power of life.

**Their biopolitical control holds the threat of a nuclear holocaust over the masses while holding the individual hostage with the threat of torture**
Michael <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hardt and</span> Antonio <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Negri</span>, Prof @
War really became absolute only with the technological
AND
bring death but also produce and regulate life.

**Vote Neg to reject the affirmative and Empire**
**Combating the capitalist system in the debate realm is crucial. We must be creative in the places where we fight capitalism.**
Michael <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hardt and</span> Antonio <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Negri</span>, Prof @
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the postmodern era, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as </span>the figure
AND
and makes rebellion into a project of love.


==Clean Tech Shell== 
A. Investment in clean tech is increasingly strong now—recent reports prove
Thomas <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Content</span>, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, 7-12-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, "Report finds Wisconsin 13th in clean-technology jobs," http://www.jsonline.com/business/125463128.html
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Batteries, biofuels and water technology helped rank </span>
**__AND__**
**__capital dollars invested last year__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Rothwell said.</span>

B. Federal space initiatives siphon off financial and personnel resources from competing private sector priorities like clean technology – history of the space program proves
Robert <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Murphy,</span> adjunct scholar of the Mises Institute + Prof of Economics @ Hillsdale College, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">05</span>, "A Free Market in Space," http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:ghms8RjSBh4J:mises.org/freemarket_detail.aspx%3Fcontrol%3D525+A+Free+Market+in+Space&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&source=www.google.com
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On October 4, 2004, the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">privately </span>
**__AND__**
**__necessarily must curtail their enjoyments of other goods.__**

C. Continued investment is vital for the continued growth of the clean tech sector
Joel <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Makower,</span> Chairman and executive editor for GreenBiz Inc., 3-22-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span>, “Clean Technology’s Unstoppable Energy,” [[http://www.greenbiz.com/blog/2010/03/22/clean-technologys-unstoppable-energy]]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">One of the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> truly </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">positive stories of the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">have deemed it yesterday's story, but </span>**__by the__**
**__large corporations__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, national and sub-</span>
**__AND__**
**__most significant clean-energy trend of all.__**

D. Clean tech investments solve global warming – the impact is global extinction
Arthouros <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zervos</span> and John <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Coequyt</span>, European Renewable Energy Council & Climate & Energy Unit @ Greenpeace, 1-24-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span>,“Increasing Renewable Energy in U.S. Can Solve Global Warming” http://www.renewableenergyworld.com/rea/news/infocus/story?id=47208
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The good news first. </span>Renewable energy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">bills and their impact on the global climate.</span>


=THORIUM POWER CP= 



===Text: The United States federal government should fund research and development and sponsor liability insurance for private ventures to change nuclear reactors to thorium reactors=== 



==Observation 1 - Solvency== 



1. No proliferation – thorium doesn’t produce plutonium

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Guardian</span>, British Newspaper, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">11-01</span>-2011, “India plans 'safer' nuclear plant powered by thorium,” The Guardian, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/nov/01/india-thorium-nuclear-plant

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Producing a workable thorium reactor would be a </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">times more abundant and 200 times more energy dense</span>



2. Increased pressure is the __only chance__ to stop proliferation – it’s try or die.

**N**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ew </span>**Y**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ork </span>**T**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">imes, “Tehran’s Ambitions,”</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tehrans-ambitions.html?ref=nuclearprogram</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The latest report from the International Atomic Energy </span>

__AND__ 

__is the **only chance** of getting Tehran’s attention.__



3. Global nuclear war

Henry <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sokolski</span>, Executive Director of the Nonproliferation

AND

/oct03/sokolski_print.html/)

If nothing is done to shore up U

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND </span>__**

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">would be spring-loaded to go nuclear</span>__****<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span>**



4. Provides clean energy – first one could be up in a decade

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Guardian</span>, British Newspaper, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">11-01</span>-2011, “India plans 'safer' nuclear plant powered by thorium,” The Guardian, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/nov/01/india-thorium-nuclear-plant

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The development of workable and large-scale </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a typical new nuclear plant in the west.</span>



5. Way better than SBSP – Cost, Feasibility, and Output. $0.40. Also zero risk of failure.

Michael <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Anissimov</span>, Member of Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, Author of several books on nanotech and existential risks, 10-16-200<span style="font-size: 13pt;">6</span>, Accelerating Future, [[http://www.acceleratingfuture.com/michael/blog/2006/10/a-nuclear-reactor-in-every-home/]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Building </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a 1-gigawatt uranium plant today </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the thousands, further driving down manufacturing costs.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> </span>

== == 




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]