= = 
[[toc]]
=Round 2 vs. Highland Park WW--Critical Aff= 

==T== 

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A. Interpretation- Transportation infrastructure includes 9 topic areas</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The American Job Act: President Obama’s Plan To Create Jobs Now </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/legislative/reports/american-jobs-act.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> BK</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(B) TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT- </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">The term `transportation infrastructure project' means</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> the construction, alteration, or repair, including the facilitation of intermodal transit, of the following subsectors:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(i) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Highway or road</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (ii) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Bridge</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (iii) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Mass transit</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (iv) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Inland waterways</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (v) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Commercial ports</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (vi) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Airports</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (vii) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Air traffic control systems</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (viii) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Passenger rail</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">, including high-speed rail</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (ix) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Freight rail systems</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">B. Violation- the aff doesn’t increase infrastructure in one of those areas</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">C. Prefer our interpretation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Predictable limits- our interpretation is the only way to create a functional limit on the topic</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Ground- their interpretation means we don’t get links to topic generics like spending or industry trade-off DA’s</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">D. Vote negative for fairness and education</span>

==Elections DA== 
1. Obama will win but it’s super close because of independents
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cohn 9-27</span> (Nate, election analyst for The New Republic. “Daily Breakdown: Obama Near His Ceiling?” http://www.tnr.com/blog/electionate/107815/daily-breakdown-obama-near-his-ceiling)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Obama’s lead in the battleground states is .....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> is very well positioned heading into the heart of the campaign.</span>

2. Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular—Americans unwilling to pay
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Alden 12</span> (Edward, Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6-14-12, CFR, [[http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]]]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Americans understood this once upon a time, ..... money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.</span>

3. Romney election would destroy US-China relations which are key to warming and the global economy
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Traub 12 </span>(James, journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” a weekly column on ForeignPolicy.com, “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1]])
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.The Republicans tend to paint themselves as hardheaded ....</span><span class="TitleChar">Treating the world’s premier rising power like the Soviet Union in the 1960s would be a mistake of historic proportions</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

4. Global warming leads to extinction and destroys ports and infrastructure
Oliver <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tickell</span>, Climate Researcher, 8/11/20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">08</span>, On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction, The Guardian, Proquest
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob ......</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">could propel us towards a</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">similar</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">hothouse Earth.</span>

==Anthro K== 
A. Their criticism does not challenge the preconception that human problems are those worth solving – modern philosophical discussions are necessarily human-centered.
**Singer 89**, Professor of Bioethics at Princeton University and Laureate Professor at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics at the University of Melbourne[All Animals Are Equal, TOM REGAN & PETER SINGER (eds.), Animal Rights and Human Obligations, New Jersey, 1989, pp. 148-162]

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Experimenting on animals, and __.....__</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">tends to confirm the reader in his or her comfortable speciesist habits</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>


B. We must deny the urge to align ourselves with their human-centric politics – it is an all or nothing question.
**Dell’Aversano ‘10** [Carmen, “the love whose name cannot be spoken: queering the human-animal bond” journal for critical animal studies, volume III issue 1 and 2, 2010]

__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">A real―oxymoronic community of .....</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> already have to be different from what we are, to have moved beyond ourselves. </span>__

C. Vote neg to reject the 1ac —maintaining the human-non-human binary dooms them to endless cycles of subordination and violence- this is also the site of protest that we should focus on
**Best ’07**, Associate Professor, Departments of Humanities and Philosophy University of Texas, El Paso [Steven, Charles Patterson, The Eternal Treblinka: Our Treatment of Animals and the Holocaust New York: Lantern Books, 2002, 280 pp]

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">While a welcome advance over ...... within the moral boundaries of welfarism and stewardship, which however was Judaic moral baggage official Chistianithy left behind.</span>
==Cede DA--2NR== 
Equivocating on policy implementation creates poor curriculum. This also proves the solution to the Right is university students like us – that’s a uniqueness trend they reverse.
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Todd </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Gitlin</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">formerly served as professor of sociology and director of the mass communications program at the University of California, Berkeley, and then a professor of culture, journalism and sociology at New York University. He is now a professor of journalism and sociology and chair of the Ph.D. program in Communications at Columbia University. He was a long-time political activist( from the Left). From the Book: The Intellectuals and the Flag – 200</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">5</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – available via CIAO Books – date accessed 9/25/10 – http://www.ciaonet.org.proxy2.cl.msu.edu/book/git01/git01_04.pdf</span>

<span class="underline">Weak thinking on the American left is</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">..... </span><span class="underline">Politically, it is useless. It amounts to secession from the world where most people live</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

And, we’ll pre-empt their arg that “the Aff is political”.
The Aff is certainly NOT “political” in the senses our authors discuss. Their re-definition of “politics” without concrete fiated action is a word-game makes the curriculum symbolic and impractical.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Chandler ‘7 </span>(David, Centre for the Study of Democracy, Westminster, Area, Vol. 39, No. 1, p. 118-119)

<span class="underline">This</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> disjunction between the human/ethical/global causes of </span>__.....__ __are made to formally organize opposition, the ephemeral and incoherent character of protest is immediately apparent.__
And, the Aff’s “new definition” of politics does not cut it unless it is unequivocal, fiated, institutional reform.
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Todd </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Gitlin</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">formerly served as professor of sociology and director of the mass communications program at the University of California, Berkeley, and then a professor of culture, journalism and sociology at New York University. He is now a professor of journalism and sociology and chair of the Ph.D. program in Communications at Columbia University. He was a long-time political activist( from the Left). From the Book: The Intellectuals and the Flag – 200</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">5</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – available via CIAO Books – date accessed 7/17/10 –http://www.ciaonet.org.proxy2.cl.msu.edu/book/git01/git01_04.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Yet </span><span class="underline">the</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> audacious </span><span class="underline">adepts of “theory”</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ..... and so the preoccupation and the style go on and on. </span>
They’ll say “not our anti-politics” – that “the Aff conceives of a new politics that changes everything”. But, this is the classic spin of the Left. Our thesis certainly does apply to their argument.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Boggs ’97</span>(CARL BOGGS – Professor and Ph.D. Political Science, National University, Los Angeles -- Theory and Society 26: 741-780)

__Well-intentioned as advocates of such ......__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the 1950s seems even more relevant to the contemporary American landscape. </span>

And, if there is a crisis of politics now, it can //only// be solved by using politics
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Katawala ‘9</span> (Sunder, Fabian Society, A Future For Politics, p. 31)

__The answer to the political legitimacy crisis is //politics//. ..... and that brings about practical results__

Here are our impacts:
First – Anti-Politics dooms their project, creates atrocity, and cedes politics to the Right.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Boggs ’97</span>(CARL BOGGS – Professor and Ph.D. Political Science, National University, Los Angeles -- Theory and Society 26: 741-780)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The false sense of empowerment that comes with such ......</span><span class="underline">interests that had vanished from civil society.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">75 </span>

Second – Moving away from anti-politics key to prevent extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Small ‘6 </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">(Jonathan, former Americorps VISTA for the Human Services Coalition,“Moving Forward,” //The Journal for Civic Commitment//, Spring, http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.jsp)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">What will be the challenges of the new millennium? And how should we ...... look at the beginning stages of a project that seeks to do just that.</span>
Third – We have an angle on their arguments.

Anti-politics turns their args by making institutions more conservative. Even if they succeed with micro-action, they’ve taught us how to make to make the system more conservative.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Chandler, ‘4 </span>(David, Snr Lecturer in International Relations at the Center for Democracy, University of Westminster, Millennium, Vol. 33, No. 4, p. 339)

__The struggle for individual ethicaland ......____the powers that be can sleep peacefully in their beds.__

Fourth – Our epistemology K of their authors – they reverse the error and cannot help but be overly-damning of conventional structures.
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Todd </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Gitlin</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">formerly served as professor of sociology and director of the mass communications program at the University of California, Berkeley, and then a professor of culture, journalism and sociology at New York University. He is now a professor of journalism and sociology and chair of the Ph.D. program in Communications at Columbia University. He was a long-time political activist( from the Left). From the Book: The Intellectuals and the Flag – 200</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">5</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – available via CIAO Books – date accessed 9/25/10 – http://www.ciaonet.org.proxy2.cl.msu.edu/book/git01/git01_04.pdf</span>

<span class="underline">The tragedy of the left is that</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, having achieved an ..... disgusted, mocking Left rather than a Left which dreams of achieving our country.”4 </span>

We’ll also pre-empt their forthcoming K’s our arguments. Such K’s __accomplish nothing__ and __cede politics to the Right__. This also proves consequences good and that we internally link turn your K business

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Todd </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Gitlin</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">formerly served as professor of sociology and director of the mass communications program at the University of California, Berkeley, and then a professor of culture, journalism and sociology at New York University. He is now a professor of journalism and sociology and chair of the Ph.D. program in Communications at Columbia University. He was a long-time political activist( from the Left). From the Book: The Intellectuals and the Flag – 200</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">5</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – available via CIAO Books – date accessed 9/25/10 – http://www.ciaonet.org.proxy2.cl.msu.edu/book/git01/git01_04.pdf</span>

<span class="underline">We are entitled to a sharp debate on the right means of ......</span><span class="Emphasis2"> to the authoritarians have surrendered the chance of defeating them.</span>
Their framework is crypto-normative - it necessarily relies upon presuppositions of how the world should be ordered. This isn't a reason to reject them, but it proves that questions about the consequences of their plan must be debated
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Shively 2000</span> (Ruth LessI, Fonner Assistant Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M,
POLITICAL THEORY AND PARTISAN POLITICS, p. 178-9)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The first point here is that the </span><span class="underline">ambiguists cannot</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ..... valuable and yet vulnerable goods that they require the most unflag¬ging and firm support that we can give them.</span>


=Round Four vs. GBN DM--Fed Reserve Bonds= 


==Warming CP== 
Text: The United States Federal Government should fertilize the North Pacific and Southern Oceans with ferrous sulphate.

CP solves CO2
**Parry, 7/18/12** – LiveScience senior staff writer (Wynne, July 18, 2012, “Could Fertilizing the Oceans Reduce Global Warming?,” http://www.livescience.com/21684-geoengineering-iron-fertilization-climate.html, Hensel)
__Some hope fertilizing tiny, floating plants .....__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> nearly all of it made up of glass-walled diatoms — sank below, 3,280 feet (1,000 m).</span>

==Elections DA== 

1. Obama will win but it’s super close because of independents
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cohn 9-27</span> (Nate, election analyst for The New Republic. “Daily Breakdown: Obama Near His Ceiling?” http://www.tnr.com/blog/electionate/107815/daily-breakdown-obama-near-his-ceiling)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Obama’s lead in the battleground states is getting .......</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> But they do suggest he is very well positioned heading into the heart of the campaign.</span>

Independents are key – entrenched political philosophies don’t appeal to them
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Finkelstein 9/28</span> (Sydney Finkelstein is a professor of strategy and leadership at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College and the author of Why Smart Executives Fail. “What Obama and Romney Must Do to Win” http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/economic-intelligence/2012/09/28/to-win-romney-must-refocus-on-business-experience)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The presidential election is being framed .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> first during the primaries and now during the election campaign, on his work at Bain. </span>

2. Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular—Americans unwilling to pay
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Alden 12</span> (Edward, Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6-14-12, CFR, [[http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]]]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Americans understood this once upon a time, ..... new projects have been unable to get through Congress.</span>

3. Romney election would destroy US-China relations which are key to warming and the global economy
Traub 12 (James, journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” a weekly column on ForeignPolicy.com, “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1]])
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The Republicans tend to paint themselves as hardheaded realists ..... </span><span class="TitleChar">Treating the world’s premier rising power like the Soviet Union in the 1960s would be a mistake of historic proportions</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

Strong US/China relations are necessary to prevent a conflict over Taiwan
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Shirk 7</span>(Susan, former deputy assistant secretary for China, U.S. State Department, CHINA: FRAGILE SUPERPOWER, 2007, p. 184.)
<span class="TitleChar">The ideal solution</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> from the standpoint o.....</span><span class="TitleChar"> be essentially unresolved in the foreseeable future and its deterioration will be hard to stop</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">."'</span>

Nuclear war
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Johnson 1</span> (Chalmers, former political science professor, University of California at Berkeley, THE NATION, May 14, 2001, p. online.)
<span class="TitleChar">Taiwan</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, whose status constitutes he ......</span><span class="TitleChar"> forward-deployed US forces on China’s borders have virtually no deterrent effect.</span>


==T--Invest--2NR== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A. Interpretation – the plan and only the plan is the focal point of topicality. On face, the plan must exclusively increase transportation infrastructure investment. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">This Investment must be capital spending on infrastructure’s physical capital</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">CBO, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> – Congressional Budget Office (“Subsidizing Infrastructure Investment with Tax-Preferred Bonds”, October, [[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/106xx/doc10667/10-26-taxpreferredbonds.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">In this analysis, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">investment in infrastructure ..... rather than intangible capital, which is formed by spending on educational programs or on research and development</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">And only __direct__ investments constitute capital spending</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Gramlich 98 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">– </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">former professor of economics at the University of Michigan and a former member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (Edward, Before the President's Commission to Study Capital Budgeting, Washington, D.C., 3/6/98, http://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/speeches/1998/19980306.htm)//EM</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Apart from politics, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">how in principle ..... as capital spending.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> But there will be major headaches involved in identifying this small amount of spending.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">B. Violation - The plan is not on face topical.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">C. Standards</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">1. Vacuum Test - we make a clear distinction between topical and non-topical plans. If you can look at the plan in a vacuum and tell on face that there is an increase, then it is topical. As soon as you have to look at solvency evidence to determine topicality, then affirmative is automatically non-topical.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">2. Limits – they open the floodgates to dozens of specific tax raises that don’t even have to be grounded in the literature.</span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">3. Ground – they spike out of core neg arguments like trade-off DAs and other DAs contingent on immediate investment in a federal program.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">D. Vote negative</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">1. F-X topicality is a voting issue – it’s impossible for the neg to predict the different chains of internal links that could lead to the aff, which skews the debate in the affs favor</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">2. Extra Topicality is an independent reason to reject the affirmative. The plan directly influences something outside of the topic. Extra topical allow the affirmative to access unpredictable advantages and skews negative ground.</span>



==Dredging CP== 

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Text: The United States Federal Reserve Board should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States except for investment in port dredging.</span>

We compete--Port dredging is transportation infrastructure
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Nagle 12</span> (Kurt, The CEO and President of the American Association of Port Authorities, September 12, “Terrorism; 10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports”, proquest)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"For centuries, seaports have been a vital part of this nation's transportation infrastructure, and safe, secure seaport facilities are critical to protecting our borders and moving goods," said Kurt Nagle, American Association of Port Authorities' president</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and CEO. "Regrettably, the more than 50 percent funding level cut recommended for FEMA's State and Local Program grants, which includes the Port Security Grant Program, could impact the current security capabilities of many U.S. ports as well as hamper their ability to carry out their five-year port protection plans."</span>

Dredging creates silt clouds killing plants fish and phytoplankton
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Talley 08’</span>(Wayne K. Talley Professor Talley received his Ph.D. from the University of Kentucky. He is the Executive Director of the International Maritime, Ports and Logistics Management Institute and holds the designations of Eminent Scholar and the Frederick W. Beazley Professor of Economics., “Port Pollution and Abatement Policies”, 2/22/08’, NC)
Dredging is the process of removing underwater sediments. ..... may blanket organisms and kill them from the physical effect of smothering rather than from toxic effects.

Phytoplankton are the base on which all marine life lives and one of the most important natural combatants of global warming
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Schiermeier, 10 </span>(QuirinSchiermeier, Quirin has written for Nature about science and related policy in Germany, the European Union, Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. He is particularly interested in climate, oceanography, fisheries and the Earth sciences, http://www.nature.com/news/2010/100728/full/news.2010.379.html, July 28, 2010)
Marine phytoplankton — the vast range of ..... back to the pioneering days of oceanography.

Extinction
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Craig 3</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Associate Prof Law, Indiana U School Law -- McGeorge Law Review, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155 Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving marine ...... </span><span class="TitleChar">if we kill the ocean we kill ourselves, and we will take most of the biosphere with us.</span>


=Round Six vs. Pembroke LF--Disabilities w/ Imagination= 


==DA== 

1. Obama will win but it’s super close because of independents
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cohn 9-27</span> (Nate, election analyst for The New Republic. “Daily Breakdown: Obama Near His Ceiling?” http://www.tnr.com/blog/electionate/107815/daily-breakdown-obama-near-his-ceiling)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Obama’s lead in the battleground states is getting large enough that the margin might not accurately represent his advantage. ..... </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">they do suggest he is very well positioned heading into the heart of the campaign.</span>

Independents are key – entrenched political philosophies don’t appeal to them
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Finkelstein 9/28</span> (Sydney Finkelstein is a professor of strategy and leadership at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College and the author of Why Smart Executives Fail. “What Obama and Romney Must Do to Win” http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/economic-intelligence/2012/09/28/to-win-romney-must-refocus-on-business-experience)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The presidential election is being framed as a .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> first during the primaries and now during the election campaign, on his work at Bain. </span>

2. Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular—Americans unwilling to pay
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Alden 12</span> (Edward, Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6-14-12, CFR, [[http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]]]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Americans understood this once upon a time, building ..... money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.</span>

Romney will ban same-sex marriage and shape the Supreme Court against gay rights.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Huffington Post 10/05</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">/2012 (WHY IT MATTERS: Issues at stake in election, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS, October 5, 2012, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/huff-wires/20121005/us-why-it-matters-compilation/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Both sides of the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">gay marriage</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> debate agree on this much: ..... Depression-era reforms to ringing endorsements of equal rights. Big decisions on health care, gun rights and abortion have turned on 5-4 votes.</span>

Consevative court rulings destroy the gay rights movement.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hart ‘9</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Zac Hart is co-founder of Indy Impact, a direct-action LGBT activist organization. His group currently organizes National and Local LGBT Rights Protests – “Jesus Christ took away my Freedom” – The bilerico Project – May 26th – http://www.bilerico.com/2009/05/jesus_christ_took_away_my_sin_freedom.php</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">So what happens after today when Prop 8 is upheld?.....which the author thought would be against Prop 8 opponents. By chance, that ruling did not take place and – at that stage – kicked the item up to the Ninth Circuit)</span>

The movement is key to check all oppression and worst forms of violence.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tatchell’89</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Peter Tatchell has been campaigning for human rights, democracy, LGBT freedom and global justice since 1967. He is a member of the group OutRage!, and has written several published books on LGBT issues – May/June 1989 (“Beyond Lesbian and Gay Rights” – Interlink) – http://www.petertatchell.net/masculinity/gay_liberation.htm</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The gay liberation movement’s challenge to</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ..... heterosexual </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">masculinity which underpins </span>//all//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">relations of oppression and </span>//exploitation.//


==States CP== 

Text: The fifty states and relevant territories should<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">substantially increase their transportation infrastructure accessibility investment.</span>

Devolution to the states solves- creates efficient labs of innovation which solves the case
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Utt 2012</span> (Ronald, is Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation. Utt is a veteran of budgetary politics in Washington, having served as director of the housing finance division at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and senior economist at the Office of Management and Budget, Past director of economic research at the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. Associate chief economist of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “Turn Back” Transportation to the States” Feb 7th http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/02/turn-back-transportation-to-the-states) AS
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The federal transportation program has lost its way</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.....</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> under the current system would be made whole, while donee states would no longer benefit from undeserved subsidies.</span>


==FW== 
They violate three sets of words
First --__Resolved” means the Aff has to have a plan – they don’t__

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">American Heritage 2000</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">To reach a decision**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">or make a determination:</span>**resolve on a course of action</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">."</span>
Second – “__Should” indicates obligation__

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Compact Oxford English Dictionary ‘5</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> (http://www.askoxford.com/concise_oed/should?view=uk)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">should • modal verb (3rd sing. should) 1 </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12px;">used to indicate obligation, duty</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, or correctness. </span>

Third – USFG

The topic is defined by the phrase following the colon – the USFG is the agent of the resolution, not the individual debaters
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Webster’s Guide to Grammar and Writing ‘2K</span>
[[http://ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/marks/colon.htm]]
Use of a colon before a list or an ..... the clause after the colon with a capital letter.

The question posed by the resolution is about the desirability of USFG action
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Cambridge Dictionary of American English ‘00</span>**</span>
Should means “<span class="underline">used to express that it is</span>necessary, <span class="underline">desirable</span>, and advisable, or important <span class="underline">to perform the action of the following verb.” </span>

The USFG is the government in Washington D.C.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Microsoft Online Encyclopedia ‘2K</span> [http://encarta.msn.com]

<span class="underline">“The federal government of the United States is centered in Washington DC.”</span>

# Reasons to Prefer and Voter

First – Better for clash.
Their blueprint makes it difficult for the neg to say anything competitive with the aff. Clash is key to critical testing of claims in debate and an educational experience.

Second –Better for preparation.
They incentivize a disconnect from topic literature and open up an infinity of philosophical speculation. It is hard for their opponents to be prepared to debate, which hurts education and leads to unfair competition. Such <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Limits are key to productive discourse</span>
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Shively ‘2K</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Ruth Lesl, Professor of Politics at Texas A&M, “//Partisan Politics and Political Theory”//, p. 181-2)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This means, first, that they must recognize .....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">contestation rests on </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">some </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">basic agreement </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">or harmony.</span>
**And, their strategy allows vague shifting which conceals weaknesses and results in manipulation that turns their impact**
**GALLES 2009** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Gary, Professor of Economics at Pepperdine, “Vagueness as a Political Strategy,” March 2, http://blog.mises.org/archives/author/gary_galles/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The problem with such vagueness is that </span>__.....__ __strategy, it virtually ensures bad policy__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, if Americans' welfare is the criterion.</span>

Third – Better normative curriculum

A requirement for a topical plan discourages teams from trying to win by saying nothing. A plan-based blueprint also teaches how to pragmatically proceed in the world.

**And clash is key to learning how to argue for a posistion**
**BRANHAM 1995** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Robert, Professor of Rhetoric at Bates College, Argumentation and Advocacy, Winter)</span>
__In the years following his release from prison, ......____which shone most brightly in the light generated by confrontation__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


Fourth – a competing interpretation standard is good

Without counter-definitions of these world, they default to pure relativism

Fifth—Switch side debate – keeping the aff ground to within the topic is necessary for debaters to research both sides of an issue – that in turn is necessary to learn about multiple sides of the topic and not close our minds to other viewpoints.

**Failure to engage the opposite side creates an echo chamber that cuts off any possibility for change**
**GITLIN 2003** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Todd, Professor of Journalism and Sociology at Colombia and Former President of Students for a Democratic Society, </span>__Letters to a Young Activist__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, 120-121)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Green rectitude is one case of a larger pitfall: self-enclosure. </span>__....____thrill to the same saints, whether their names are Che, Fidel, Ho, Malcolm, Huey, Noam, whomever__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

They cede the political to elites which causes slavery and imperialist wars
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Boggs 2k</span> (CAROL BOGGS, PF POLITICAL SCIENCE – SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, 00, THE END OF POLITICS, 250-1)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">But it is a very deceptive and misleading minimalism. </span>.....<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> antirationalism of Oakeshott’sBurkean muddling-through theories. </span>

The only way to prevent extinction is to show that the government can be useful as done with policy affs
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Small 6</span> (Jonathan, former Americorps VISTA for the Human Services Coalition, “Moving Forward,” The Journal for Civic Commitment, Spring, http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.jsp)

<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">What will be the challenges of the new millennium? And how .....In the rest of this paper, we will look at the beginning stages of a project that seeks to do just that.</span>



==Fem K--2NR== 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Failure to prioritize gender in your thinking about disabilities leads to the perpetuation of discrimination and violence against women. Your attempt to engage in a communicative process through assistance is short-circuited by the fact women will never get the assistance or have their voices heard. The continuation of this exclusion of women justifies legal and social regulation of the feminine culminating in forced sterilization campaigns </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Price, 11</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Janet, PhD works with Association for Women’s Rights in Development, The seeds of a movement – disabled women and their struggle to organize, [[http://www.awid.org/content/.../file/CTW_SeedsofaMovement_ENG.pdf|www.awid.org/content/.../file/CTW_**SeedsofaMovement**_ENG.pdf]]</span> [9/29/11]
Since the 1970s, **__<span style="font-size: 16px;">disabled peoples</span>__** in differing global locations have **__<span style="font-size: 16px;">.....</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> disabled people’s organizations are male</span>__**.

This masculine ideology is the root cause of all proliferation, environmental destruction, domestic violence, and war
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Warren and Cady 94(Karen J, Duane L, feminists and authors, Hypatia, “Feminism and Peace: Seeing connections,” pg 16-17)</span>
Much of **__the current "unmanageability" of contemporary .....__** connections in regional, national, and global contexts.


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">The alternative is to reformulate the foundation of the topic to endorse a larger project of social and cultural geographies of mobility</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Reformulating the topic area will create larger social and cultural projects as well as a more systematic theory of gender as a category in social life </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Law 99</span> (Robin, Department of Geography, University of Otago New Zealand, "Progress in Human Geography", [[http://phg.sagepub.com/content/23/4/567.full.pdf]].Noparstak)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">To use a spatial metaphor, the geography of ..... of the next two sections of this article. </span>