[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**Plan: The** **United States** **Federal Government should withdraw all of the** **United States** **Federal Government’s military and police presence from** **Iraq**


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1: Inherency</span></span></span>
Troops will remain long after withdrawal. There will be 58 permanent bases, the same model used by the British Empire to colonize Iraq. 
<span class="Author-Date">Margolis 09</span> (Eric Margolis, Journalist, March 2 2009, Toronto Sun, WK)

There is empirical evidence that indicates that there will be a permanent military occupation of Iraq. 
<span class="Author-Date">Hassan 08</span> (Salah Hassan, “Never-Ending Occupations” CR: The New Centennial Review, Volume 8, Number 1, Spring 2008)

<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**__Advantage 1: Security__**</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**After 9/11, the** **United States** **began to spread democracy through violence and terror. This project of colonization is inextricable from the continuation of the war – absent withdrawal, the initial legacy will continue.**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**Kramer and Michalowski 05** (Ronal C. Kramer, professor university of western Michigan, and Raymond J. Michalowski, professor northern Arizona university. “War, Aggression and State Crime” April 05, Centre for Crime and Justice Studies)</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**The continued framing of** **Iraq** **as a security threat creates a nexus through which it is impossible to approach it as anything other than an object in need of development and westernization.**</span>
**Bilgin, 2008**. Pinar Bilgin (Department of International Relations, Bilkent University), Thinking Past Western IR? Third World Quarterly. http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01436590701726392 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**This otherization of external threats provides the State with a mandate to violently eradicate any and all opposition.**</span>
Pinar **Bilgin**, @ Bilkent Univ, **‘4** [International Relations 18.1, “Whose ‘Middle East’? Geopolitical Inventions and Practices of Security,” p. 28]

<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**Through this break with the security discourse surrounding** **Iraq****, the affirmative internally deconstructs contemporary Imperialism.**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**Welch, 2008** (Michael Welch, September 26, 2008. Ordering Iraq: Reﬂections on Power, Discourse, & Neocolonialism)</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**__Advantage 2: Orientalism__** </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**The stereotypical perception of** **Iraq** **and the** **Middle East** **as unstable and inferior served as the justification for the** **Iraq** **War.** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Spencer 6** (Robert, NYT Bestselling author on Islam, http://media.web.britannica.com/ebsco/pdf/23/23648989.pdf, date accessed: 7/8/2010) AJK</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**American Orientalist views ensure colonialism of** **Iraq** **through systemic military presence necessary to promote “assimilation” to a “civilized culture”.** </span>
**Said 78** (Edward, “Orientalism”, professor of comparative literature at Columbia, p 120, date accessed: 7/7/2010) AJK

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Orientalist policy is inherently dehumanizing**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Said 3** (Edward, Prof. of English/Comparative Lit., Columbia U., “Preface.” Orientalism. p. xxvii)</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**AND dehumanization externalizes itself into violence.** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Hooks and Mosher 05** [Gregory and Clayton, June 05, Washington University a Soros Senior Justice Fellow Professor & Chair Ph.D., Wisconsin, 1985, Associate Professor of Liberal Arts and Sociology @ WSU**,** __Outrages Against Personal Dignity: Rationalizing Abuse and Torture in the War on Terror,__ 01.25.2011, (http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?hid=21&sid=5a7c18bf-f04c-4188-8c36-d525299fddce%40sessionmgr13&vid=9)//gdi-tjc]//</span>

//<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**__Contention 2: Solvency__** </span>//

<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**The Current view of international security is based on civilized/uncivilized binaries. We assume** **Iraq** **is a breeding ground for conflict. The affirmative resists colonialism by examining the historical contexts of** **US** **occupation.**</span><span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">Tarak **Barkawi**, Prof. in Interenational Security @ Univ. of Cambridge, Mark **Laffey**, Prof. in International Politics @ Univ. of London, **‘6** [</span>
Review of International Studies //32, “The postcolonial moment in security studies,” p. 344-6]//

//<span style="line-height: normal;">**False Neoconservative Orientalist depictions of the** **Middle East** **were justification for invading** **Iraq****. Lack of thorough examination of political intentions recreates colonization of the** **Middle East****.**</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">**El-Affendi 03** [Abdelwahab, University of Westminster, October 20, </span>//Daily Star ( Lebanon ), //__Orientalism is alive and well ­ in__ __Iraq____,__ (http://www.campus-watch.org/article/id/830)//gdi-tjc]


[[#_Toc141719340]] <span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Comes First. Questioning current problem/solution dichotomies is necessary to break down colonialism** </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">Diana **Brydon**, University of Western Ontario, **‘6** [Postcolonial Test 2.1, “Is There a Politics of Postcoloniality?” http://journals.sfu.ca/pocol/index.php/pct/article/viewArticle/508/175]</span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]