**<span style="color: #000000;">Section 1. Overview</span>**

**<span style="color: #000000;">A. Law and the Myth of Politics</span>**
# **<span style="color: #000000;">The modern conception of the state is premised on the myth of the state of nature.</span>**
# **<span style="color: #000000;">From the perspective of this founding myth, we are inclined to judge the legitimacy of governments by examining the relationship between the state and its subjects.</span>**
# **This myth is improper for understanding the true relationship between the citizen and the state.** 
**<span style="color: #000000;">B. Life </span>**
# **<span style="color: #000000;">There are two primary ways that we conceptualize life, natural and good life. </span>** 
# **<span style="color: #000000;">The state creates a legal definition of life.</span>**
# **<span style="color: #000000;">Defining life entails defining death. </span>**
# **<span style="color: #000000;">Because the state is the judge of life, life has absolutely no meaning or stable existence.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">C. Power</span>**
# **<span style="color: #000000;">The maintenance of static power relations is the source of unending violence and domination. </span>**
# **<span style="color: #000000;">Instead of voluntary consent to state rule, we, as subjects, are the ones chosen by the state. </span>**
# **<span style="color: #000000;">When the protection of life is grounded in trust of the state, the entire population is doomed to extermination at the whim of the state.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Section 2: Links </span>**<span style="color: #6c6c6c;">(these will have to be specific to their impact scenarios)</span>
# **<span style="color: #000000;">The AC posits human life as fragile, requiring protection from the state. </span>**
# **<span style="color: #000000;">Rights are only an attempt to legally codify the value of life. </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Section 3: Impacts</span>**
# **__<span style="color: #000000;">Turns the case and makes their impacts inevitable</span>__****<span style="color: #000000;">:.</span>**
# **<span style="color: #000000;">This outweighs: </span>**
# **__<span style="color: #000000;">No Value to Life</span>__****<span style="color: #000000;">:.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">4. __Mass Extermination:__ </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Section 4: Alternative</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">The United States . . .*make fun of plan text*</span>**
<span style="color: #000000;">The Alternative is a CP text that profanes the Plan Text through the implementation of parody. </span>
**<span style="color: #000000;">Alt Solvency: </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">First, CP solves the instance of the case. __We are not claiming to solve the root of all violence, just the root of all violence in the AC.__</span>**

**<span style="color: #000000;">Second, CP solves the K:</span>**

# **<span style="color: #000000;">We must make our lives profane, free from sacred bonds.</span>** 
# **<span style="color: #000000;">CP achieves the separation of humanity from the political / legal realm.</span>**
# **<span style="color: #000000;">Profaning returns things to the common use of people. </span>**