=***Neg Stuff***= 
=**R1 vs Greenhill**= 
==Politics 1NC== 
**Jackson-Vanik will be repealed soon and is key to relations– Obama and business support**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Korotun 4-4</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Lada Korotun Apr 4, 2012 Jackson-Vanik amendment may be gone by summer english.ruvr.ru/2012_04_04/Cold-War-law-russian-trade-world-trade/</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The last remaining “dinosaur” of … </span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">a metaphor and means something</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. (end)</span>
**Obama’s political capital is key – needed to balance the fight within the agenda**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stokes 11</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Bruce Stokes January 26, 2011 An Agenda, If You Can Keep It http://nationaljournal.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/member/daily/an-agenda-if-you-can-keep-it-20110126?mrefid=site_searchAfter years of relative quiescence, Congress actually has a trade agenda in 2011: possible votes on the Korea, Colombia, and Panama trade agreements, and on Russia’s application to join the World Trade Organization.</span>
<span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Whether, </span>__</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">when, how, and which</span>__</span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">… </span>__</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">could be an uphill slog.</span>__</span>

**Plan causes backlash – cost of an SSA network is prohibitively high**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weeden 2010</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Brian Weeden, Technical Advisor for Secure World Foundation, Secure World Foundation Published 1 August 2010, The Norad Experience: Implications for International Space Surveillance Data-Sharing Executive [[http://swfound.org/media/1817/norad-exec-summ-bw-2010.pdf]]</span>

A similar situation exists with … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the desperate need for NORAD.</span>

**Repeal is key to Russian economic diversification**
**Fortin 3-13**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">JACEY FORTIN, March 13, 2012, “The Jackson-Vanik Amendment: How Soviet-Era Trade Regulations Could Affect Human Rights in Russia” http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/313539/20120313/jackson-vanik-russia-human-rights-obama.htm</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As Russia prepares to join … economic diversification to the country. </span>__</span>

**That’s key to the Russian economy**
**ICD 10**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Institute of Contemporary Development, “Information Technology and Russia's Future” http://www.insor-russia.ru/en/_priorities/competitive_economy</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Russia’s </span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">extremely </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">strong economic growth … the development of innovative industries. </span>__</span>

**Collapse causes nuclear war**
**Filger 9**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Sheldon Filger, founder of GlobalEconomicCrisis.com, May 10, 2009, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">In Russia</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, historically, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">economic health … </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">is its least dangerous consequence. </span>__</span>
==Militarization 1NC== 
**Military SSA and data sharing are high and credible internationally – new tech and future process changes solve any fears**
Ms. Jessica S. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tok</span> (Space Policy Analyst US Strategic Command/J513 Offutt AFB, Nebraska) February <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2011</span> “USSTRATCOM Perspective on National Space Policy Implementation through Space Situational Awareness Sharing” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As a mission and responsibility assigned … damaging consequences for all of us.”16</span>

**The plan creates bureaucratic nightmare – crushes joint military cooperation and effectiveness**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Millsap and Posey 2k</span> — Ralph Millsap, Associate Director for the United States of the Canadian Agassiz Institute of Conflict Studies, President of Advance Strategic Initiatives, Inc., formerly served as a B-52 radar navigator, an associate professor of military studies at the US Air Force Academy, director of the Revolutionary Warfare Course at the US Air Force Special Operations School, and director of the Conflict Resolution Course at Air Command and Staff College, and Dr. D. B. Posey, Senior Analyst at Tybren Corporation, assigned to Air Force Special Operations Command, previously served as a faculty member in the Department of War Theory and Conflict Resolution at Air Command and Staff College and as a career intelligence officer in USAFR, 2000 (“Organizational Options for the Future Aerospace Force,” Aerospace Power Journal, Summer, [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/sum00/millsap.htm]]
Existing space procurement, including personnel <span class="Underline">… States intends to weaponize space</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Also crushes predictability and integration efforts that are necessary to retain personnel – key to overall hegemony**
Michael <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Dorsey</span> (Sergeant in the US Air force) <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">1999</span> “Air Force Future Rests On Aerospace Integration” http://www.spacedaily.com/news/milspace-99g.html
Integrating air and space operations … a quality people in the service


**Prevents miscalc and nuclear war**
**Burke, 6** – Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]])

__The erosion of the US … satellites without fear of retribution__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.57 </span>






==CP 1NC== 
**Establishing the I-SPIC solves SSA – and disseminates all data globally and boosts global cooperation**
**Cox, 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – US Air Force Colonel (Lee, “AVOIDING COLLISIONS IN SPACE: IS IT TIME FOR AN INTERNATIONAL SPACE</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">INTEGRATION CENTER?”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA469676]])</span>
**I-SPIC = International Space Integration Center**

__Development of an I-SPIC will … forward in international space cooperation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>






==K 1NC== 
**Utilitarianism demands thinking of time frames differently; we do not just have an obligation to the now but to the infinite lives of the future. Rapidly embracing technology that we do not understand jeopardizes the planet.**
**Brand, 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stewart, Editor of the Whole Earth Catalog, Founder of the Long Now Foundation, //The Clock of the Long Now, Time and Responsibility,// 8-9). </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The number of human beings … , if those changes are slow.”</span>


**Each new technological doubling threatens cataclysmic change. We are blindly crashing into the Singularity**
**Brand, 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stewart, Editor of the Whole Earth Catalog, Founder of the Long Now Foundation, //The Clock of the Long Now, Time and Responsibility,// 15-17).</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With technological acceleration driving economic … </span>__of the century: the Singularity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” </span>


**Singularity causes extinction—environmental collapse**
**Bell 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Author and Writer for Sustain, a national environmental information group, Earth Island Journal, Vol. 17 No. 2, “Technotopia & the Death of Nature, Clones, Supercomputers, and Robots,” http://www.earthisland.org/eijournal/new_articles.cfm?articleID=586&journalID=64)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet </span>__there is something missing … could be only one winner.__


**The alternative is not a complete rejection of all aspects of humanism but a rejection of faith in technology and our ability to master the universe.**
**Ehrenfeld, 81**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, //The Arrogance of Humanism//, Professor of Biology @ Rutgers, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Fellow: American Association for the Advancement of Science, page 4-6).</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is more than an … expressed and is sometimes denied.</span>

==K 2NC CARDS== 
**Singularity is worse than extinction.** 
**Venge 93**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Vernor, Department of Mathematical Sciences at San Diego State University, “The Coming Technological Singularity,” http://www-rohan.sdsu.edu/faculty/vinge/misc/singularity.html) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If the Singularity can not … such kindness in this universe.) </span>

**The presence of bad actors and nuclear weapons is precisely why technological control of the planet is dangerous. Tech will inevitably fall into the wrong hands.**
**Ehrenfeld, 81**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, //The Arrogance of Humanism//, Professor of Biology @ Rutgers, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Fellow: American Association for the Advancement of Science, page 243-244).</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Humanism postulates a world that is … humanism, </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and I have not forgotten it.</span>

**Rejection of the humanist embrace of technology is the only way to survive.** 
**Ehrenfeld, 81**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, //The Arrogance of Humanism//, Professor of Biology @ Rutgers, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Fellow: American Association for the Advancement of Science, page 21-22).</span>

__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Humanism and modem society have … </span>____natural world__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and with God.</span>

**Specifically our technological worship of the machine manifests itself in nuclear weapons – the impact is environmental destruction, eternal war and psychic numbing** 
**Chernus 86**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Ira, professor of religious studies university of Colorado at Boulder, “Dr. Strangegod: on the symbolic meaning of nuclear weapons” 1986 WM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Machines must inevitably see all … </span>__to the Bomb as God.__

**It is the worship of the machine that makes war bad – as we distance ourself from conflict we break with the truth of war**
**Hillman 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Ph.D in Psychology from University of Zurich (James “A terrible love of war” 2004, p. 90-92)</span>

<span style="color: #0f0f0f; font-size: 8pt;">No more battle rage; cool. </span>__<span style="color: #0f0f0f;">… </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">the mind would be enough.</span>

**Rejecting the aff in favor of mythic non-technological war allows us to feel alive, to be human instead of humanist and to value both life and death**
**Hillman 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Founder of Post-… psychology, </span>__A Terrible Love of War__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, p. 1-11)</span>

__A The basic layer of … felt alive before or since."__

**Humanist cries that THIS technology is needed to avoid a crisis and the claim to finally have it right ignores that their “objective” results stem from a very narrow range of questions. Their experts are speaking about small technical, not the bigger questions of what technology is doing to the planet.** 
**Ehrenfeld, 81**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, //The Arrogance of Humanism//, Professor of Biology @ Rutgers, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Fellow: American Association for the Advancement of Science, page</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 59-64).</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Before I begin to analyze the … overwhelmed by a miscellany of facts. </span>










==Aerospace 1NC== 
**Tons of things have to occur to solve the bioterror threat**
**Chyba and Greniger 04** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Co-Director of the Center of International Security and Cooperation, Greniger: MS in biology, CISAC honors thesis (Chistopher Chyba, Alex Greniger, Summer 2004, pp 142-162, [[http://iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/20722/Chyba_2004.pdf]]) DR. H</span>

__In addition to broad improvements … table in the near future__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.22</span>

**The bioterror threat is exaggerated—probability claims are just based off of 2001 anthrax attacks which don’t apply to the status quo**
**Cole 1/18** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Expert on bioterrorism and terror medicine, adjunct professor of political science at Rutgers University, Professor of Terrorism Issues in the Division of Global Affairs (Leonard Cole, January 18, 2012, “Bioterrorism: Still a Threat to the United States,” [[http://www.ctc.usma.edu/posts/bioterrorism-still-a-threat-to-the-united-states]]) DR. H</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Contention #5: </span>__The threat of bioterrorism …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">warrant thoughtful programs for preparedness.</span>






==Space Weather 1NC== 
**1. Squo solves solar flares:**
**A) SDO is solving solar flares now**
**Mick 11 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">News editor and columnist for DailyTech, worked in the electronics field for such companies as Siemens VDO, Lear Corporation, and Ovonics Battery Company. a BA in computer engineering from Oakland University and is currently in a Masters/PhD program in Chemical Engineering and Physiology at Wayne State University (Jason Mick,“NASA Now Ready to Detect World-threatening Solar "Storm of the Century"”, http://www.dailytech.com/NASA+Now+Ready+to+Detect+Worldthreatening+Solar+Storm+of+the+Century/article17809.htm)JCP</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Last month</span> __NASA launched the … brace for it__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this time.</span>

**B) Other Countries**
**Solar storms are checked in the status quo by multiple other countries**
**Riswadkar & Dobbins 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*A.R. is a liability line of business director in the Risk Engineering department of Zurich Services Corporation. He is team leader for the Risk Engineering Liability Center of Expertise and a member of Zurich Ûs Emerging Risk Group. He holds a B.S. in mechanical engineering, M.S. in industrial engineering and the Associate in Risk Management designation, AND **Mr. Buddy Dobbins is the Director of Machinery Breakdown in the Risk Engineering department of Zurich Services Corporation. Prior to Zurich Risk Engineering, Buddy worked for Kemper Insurance Special Inspection and Loss Control Services. He holds an ASCÓ Engineering Technology and BSCÓ Liberal Arts since 1995 (4/8/10, Team leader for the Risk Engineering Liability Center of Expertise and a member of Zurich Ûs Emerging Risk Group, Solar Storms: Protecting Your Operations Against the Sun's 'Dark Side', http://www.zurich.com/NR/rdonlyres/E7A8BC6C-86D9-4C1A-ABFC-F6213EB23D73/0/SolarStorms.pdf |SK) </span>

__Department of Natural Resources Canada (… and other technology on earth.__






==Coop 1NC== 
**SSA data sharing and tech expansion solves now**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">C.R. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kehler</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (USSTRATCOM Commander) </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">April 17</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2012 Testimony to the HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES SUBCOMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC FORCES [[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/SiteCollectionDocuments/Testimony/2012/April2012/041712kehler.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Reducing risks to space assets … </span><span class="Underline">undesirable aggression against space capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>