[[toc]]
=Round 2 vs. Johns Creek DF--NextGen= 

==T Transportation Infrastructure== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">**Interpretation: Transportation infrastructure is the underlying structure that allows for the movement of goods and people**.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Trimbath 9 (Dr. Susanne, Senior Research Economist in Capital Market Studies at Milken Institute, Senior Advisor – United States Chamber of Commerce, and Professor of Economics and Accounting – Bellvue University, “Transportation Infrastructure: Paving the Way”, [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/infrastructur]] e/files/2009TPI_Update_Economics_White_Paper_110712.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The strategy applied by the US...</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">and customers to marketplaces. The structures are:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">- </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Transit</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> - </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Highways</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> - </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Airports</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> - </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Railways</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> - Waterways (</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Ports</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">) - </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Intermodal Links</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Violation: Plan is monitoring transportation infrastructure, not infrastructure itself.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">USDOT RITA 2012 (US Department of Transportation Research and Innovative Technology Administration, March 28 EM05-Transportation Infrastructure Protection http://www.iteris.com/itsarch/html/mp/mpem05.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">This</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> service </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">package includes the </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">....</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">that mitigate impact of an incident.</span>



==States CP== 

**Text: The fifty states and relevant territories should (I don’t remember their plan-text)**

**Devolution to the states solves- creates efficient labs of innovation which solves the case**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Utt 2012</span>** (Ronald, is Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation. Utt is a veteran of budgetary politics in Washington, having served as director of the housing finance division at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and senior economist at the Office of Management and Budget, Past director of economic research at the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. Associate chief economist of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “Turn Back” Transportation to the States” Feb 7th http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/02/turn-back-transportation-to-the-states) AS
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The federal transportation program has lost its way</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">...</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">would no longer benefit from undeserved subsidies.</span>

==**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Election DA</span>**== 


**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Obama will beat Mitt Romney handily – polls, Ryan pick</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Bouie 8-15</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif';"> (Jamelle, writer at the American Prospect. “Here’s why Romney pounced on Biden's "chains" gaffe: He’s losing.” Washington Post.[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/plum-line/post/heres-why-romney-pounced-on-bidens-chains-gaffe-hes-losing/2012/08/15/bb8a4b6c-e6f6-11e1-9739-eef99c5fb285_blog.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif';">Because Mitt Romney is losing.**¶** “If the election were ....If Romney stays on this path, he’ll lose.</span>



**Fights over the FAA causes battles in Congress -- differences in party priorities**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Wyatt, 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12px;">(Edward Wyatt is a business and commerce reporter for the New York Times; “Congress at Impasse Over F.A.A.”; [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/28/business/congress-is-at-an-impasse-over-faa-financing.html?_r=2]]; July 27th, 2011) James</span>



WASHINGTON — The debt ceiling debate may seem to be taking forever, ...The House F.A.A. bill contains a provision to repeal the rule.




**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Romney election would destroy US-China relations which are key to warming and the global economy</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Traub 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif';">(James, journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” a weekly column on ForeignPolicy.com, “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif';">The Republicans tend to paint themselves .....Treating the world’s premier rising power like the Soviet Union in the 1960s would be a mistake of historic proportions.</span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Global warming leads to extinction and destroys ports and infrastructure</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif';">Oliver </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Tickell</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif';">, Climate Researcher, 8/11/20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif';">, On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction, The Guardian, Proquest</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif';">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, ....</span>by human emissions<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif';">could propel us towards a</span>similar<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif';">hothouse Earth.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif';">Fem K</span>== 




**Transportation planning is dominated by the masculine—women are treated as if they don’t belong**

**Sandercock and Forsyth 92**[Leonie Sandercock& Ann Forsyth, An Australian academic currently teaching at the School of Community & Regional Planning at University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada., professor of Urban Planning at Harvard University “A Gender Agenda: New Directions for Planning Theory”, Winter 1992, [[http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/01944369208975534]]]

__With more women entering the planning profession .....__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">reinforced or challenged</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(This is an omission in Fores-ter’s otherwise very perceptive 1989 work on the internalculture ofplanners.</span>





**Masculinity as the foundation of the nation-state makes all warfare inevitable as the roles in warfare and post-conflict management are self-perpetuating in order for the fraternal community to sustain itself**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Handrahan, 2K1</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Lori M., International Centre of Gender Studies, Oxford, Conflict, Gender, Ethnicity and Post-Conflict Reconstruction, //Security Dialogue// 35.4)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Benedict Anderson, the well-known academic expert on identity, asserts that </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">....</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> without war</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Benton, 1998: 43). </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">War makes the man</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>





**The alternative is to reformulate the foundation of the topic to endorse a larger project of social and cultural geographies of mobility**


**Reformulating the topic area will create larger social and cultural projects as well as a more systematic theory of gender as a category in social life**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Law 99</span>** (Robin, Department of Geography, University of Otago New Zealand, "Progress in Human Geography", [[http://phg.sagepub.com/content/23/4/567.full.pdf]]. Noparstak)

To use a spatial metaphor, the geography .... These two moves form the basis of the next two sections of this article.

==2NR== 

States CP

Elections DA



=Round 4 vs. Chatahoochie AK--Port Security= 

==T Transportation infrastructure== 

**Interpretation: “Transportation infrastructure” is only the underlying delivery structures for goods and services**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Trimbath 9</span>** (Dr. Susanne, Senior Research Economist in Capital Market Studies at Milken Institute, Senior Advisor – United States Chamber of Commerce, and Professor of Economics and Accounting – Bellvue University, “Transportation Infrastructure: Paving the Way”, [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/infrastructur]] e/files/2009TPI_Update_Economics_White_Paper_110712.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">V. Paving the Way Forward</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The strategy applied by the US Chamber of Commerce for the infrastructure performance index project presents a model for developing the way forward. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A stakeholder-centric approach allows you to </span>//measure the right things//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>//communicate//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to the people in a language they understand and </span>//get to ACTION faster//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. The process</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, detailed in the Technical Report last summer (US Chamber 2010), </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is basically this:</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">1. </span>//Clearly//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> define “transportation infrastructure” as the </span>//underlying structures//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that support the </span>//delivery//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of inputs to places of production, goods and services to customers, and customers to marketplaces. The structures are:</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Transit</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Highways</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Airports</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Railways</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- Waterways (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Ports</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Intermodal Links</span>

**And “Investment” requires __adding to the physical capital stock__ of current transportation infrastructure – that means building new infrastructure**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Anderson 6</span> (Edward, Lecturer in Development Studies – University of East Anglia, et al., “The Role of Public Investment in Poverty Reduction: Theories, Evidence and Methods”, Overseas Development Institute Working Paper 263, March, http://www.odi.org.uk/resources/docs/1786.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">1.3 Definitions</span>
We define<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (net) public </span>investment as<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> public </span>expenditure that //adds to the//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> public </span>//physical capital stock//. This would include<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>building<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of </span>roads, ports, schools, hospitals etc. This corresponds to the definition of<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">public </span>investment in national accounts data, //namely, capital expenditure//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. It is not within the scope of this paper to include public expenditure on health and education, despite the fact that many regard such expenditure as investment. Methods for assessing the poverty impact of public expenditure on social sectors such as health and education have been well covered elsewhere in recent years (see for example, van de Walle and Nead, 1995; Sahn and Younger, 2000; and World Bank, 2002).</span>

==COC CP== 

**Text: The United States Federal Government should hold an international conference consisting of willing governments and private entities to propose the creation of an international Code of Conduct for the purpose of improving shipping container security as per our Dahlman evidence.**

**This gets other countries on board for multilateral action – solves the case**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Dahlman et al 2k5** -</span>OD Science Applications, Sweden (Ola, Jenifer Mackby, Bernard Sitt, Andre Poucet, ArendMeerburg, Bernard Massinon, Edward Ifft, Masahiko Asada, Ralph Alewine “Container Security: Proposal for a Comprehensive Code of Conduct,” Defense & Technology Papers are published by the National Defense University Center for Technology, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA434718)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The most urgent next step is to</span>.... to model an integrated container security regime.

**A multilateral Code of Conduct for maritime trade solves container security**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Dahlman et al 2k5** -</span>OD Science Applications, Sweden (Ola, Jenifer Mackby, Bernard Sitt, Andre Poucet, ArendMeerburg, Bernard Massinon, Edward Ifft, Masahiko Asada, Ralph Alewine “Container Security: Proposal for a Comprehensive Code of Conduct,” Defense & Technology Papers are published by the National Defense University Center for Technology, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA434718)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Container security is not just a national issue for a single country, ...Assist in the training of personnel in national authorities.</span>

==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Virillio K</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Demands for the speed of transportation infrastructure leads to a ceding of politics away from human decision making</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Paul</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> __Virilio 2006__</span>**The Information Bomb (Radical Thinkers). Verso.

A slow and measured democracy, locally situated, __....__ <span style="font-size: 16px;">__which is another, less elevated name forwhat we currently term 'interaction'.__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">**The automation of war will lead to the accidental war** </span>
Paul **<span style="font-size: 16px;">Virilio</span>**, director of the EcoleSpecialed’Architecture in Paris, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2000</span>, A landscape of events P. 93

In this dire perspective, <span class="underline">compulsory automation .... between war and peace fly through our fingers.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">The alt is to reject the affirmative's destruction of politics to reinvent a political relationship to speed</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Paul __Virilioand__Chris__Dercon__2001</span><span style="font-family: 'Ottawa','sans-serif'; font-size: 12px;">Virilio Live</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 12px;">:selectedinter</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">views</span><span style="font-family: 'Ottawa','sans-serif';">""SPEED-SPACE Interview with Chris Dercon" ", Sage Publications.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Dutch801RmBT','sans-serif';">It’s important to return to the city. To return to the city .... strangers and therefore desire their autonomy.There’s a logic there, and it’s a logic which poses problems.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Dutch801RmBT','sans-serif';">Elections DA (Round 2)</span>== 

**Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular—Americans unwilling to pay**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Alden 12</span>** (Edward, Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6-14-12, CFR, http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]
__Americans understood this once upon a time,...__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.</span>


==2NR== 

COC CP

Elections DA

=Round 6 vs. New Trier CM--CCS= 

==T Transportation Infrastructure== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Interpretation – transportation infrastructure is roadways, railways, harbors, airports, railroads, and highways – pipeline are explicitly excluded</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">United States Chamber of Commerce, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (“Transportation Performance Index – Summary Report” 9/23/10 [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110]].pdf)//dm//</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Step 1 – Definition: </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Transportation Infrastructure</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">It </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">is</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> important to establish a definition ... freight rail, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">marine</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">and intermodal.</span>//


//**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Pipelines only contrast with transportation infrastructure</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">**Peters, 07** – Secretary of Transportation (Mary, Statement by her made before the committee on the budget – US house of representatives 10/25/07 http://testimony.ost.dot.gov/test/pasttest/07test/peters9.htm)</span>//dm
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Because </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">transportation system users ....electricity, pipelines</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, and railroads//.//</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Fem K (Round 2)</span>== 

==<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Elections DA (Round 2)</span>== 


**INCREASING CCS projects causes unpopularity**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Stephenson 8</span>** - Director, Natural Resources and Environment @ GAO

“Federal Actions Will Greatly Affect the Viability of Carbon Capture and Storage As a Key Mitigation Option,” GAO, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d081080.pdf

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Thus far</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> at least, </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">there has been little public opposition</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ....</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">and </span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">fear</span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> when commercial-scale CCS is implemented</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>





==Quadrennial Energy Review CP== 
Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates
Charles H. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">"Policy statements"</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">differ</span>//<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">from substantive ...</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and the Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).</span>
The counterplan solves the entirely of the aff, and avoids the links to politics.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Jones -11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Richard M. Jones, Government Relations Division, American Institute of Physics, March 24, 2011, FYI: The AIP Bulletin of Science Policy News, http://www.aip.org/fyi/2011/039.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Individuals have until April 15 to file comments ....document and your responses to the questions it poses.”</span>


The QER has Congressional support – delay for research is critical to solvency and increased investor confidence – this turns any now key warrants.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Moniz -12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Moniz, Ernest J. “Stimulating Energy Technology Innovation.” Daedalus 141.2 (2012): 81–93. Web. 4 May 2012. © 2012 American Academy of Arts & Sciences)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">For the qer to succeed, the government...... that earn decent buyin from major stakeholders.</span>


Loss of investor confidence tanks U.S. competitiveness
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">CFR 2011</span> (Committee of Responsible budget, “The Budget Deficit and U.S. competitiveness”, http://www.cfr.org/economics/budget-deficit-us-competitiveness/p24910)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Most economists fear that large budget ....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> system and, possibly, raising the retirement age.</span>


Economic competitiveness key to preventing war
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Khalilzad</span>, Former US Ambassador to Iraq, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">‘11</span> (Zalmay, February 8, “The Economy and National Security” National Review, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Today, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">economic </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and fiscal</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> trends ....Failures of multi-polar international systems produced both world wars</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

==<span style="font-size: 17px;">2NR</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 17px;">Straight Link-Turned Elections</span>

=<span style="font-size: 17px;">Doubles vs. Alpharetta RS--Ice Breakers</span>= 

==<span style="font-size: 17px;">T In</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A. “In” means within the limits of</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Webster’s 6</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Merriam Webster Online Dictionary, 06 (</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary?book=Dictionary&va=in]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Main Entry: 1in Pronunciation: 'in, &n, &n Function: preposition Etymology: Middle English, from Old English; akin to Old High German in in, Latin in, Greek en 1 a -- </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">used</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> as a function word </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">to indicate inclusion, location, or position within limits</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"><in the lake><wounded in the leg><in the summer></span>

==<span style="font-size: 17px;">Fem K (Round 2)</span>== 

==<span style="font-size: 17px;">Elections DA</span>== 


**Obama will beat Mitt Romney handily – polls, Ryan pick**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bouie 8-15</span>** (Jamelle, writer at the American Prospect. “Here’s why Romney pounced on Biden's "chains" gaffe: He’s losing.” Washington Post.[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/plum-line/post/heres-why-romney-pounced-on-bidens-chains-gaffe-hes-losing/2012/08/15/bb8a4b6c-e6f6-11e1-9739-eef99c5fb285_blog.html]])

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Because </span><span class="TitleChar">Mitt Romney is losing.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span class="TitleChar"> “If the election were held today,”</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> .... while the narrative of the election has changed with the Ryan pick, the status quo hasn’t. If Romney stays on this path, he’ll lose.</span>


**Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular—Americans unwilling to pay**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Alden 12</span>** (Edward, Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6-14-12, CFR, http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]


__Americans understood this once upon a time,.....__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">funnel private investor (not taxpayer) money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.</span>


**CTBT passage relies on Obama’s reelection**

**<span class="Heading4Char">Schneidmiller 11</span>** (Chris Schneidmiller, editor of Global Security Newswire, Senate Decision Key to Future of Test Ban Treaty, July 18, 2011, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/senate-decision-key-to-future-of-test-ban-treaty/]])

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">WASHINGTON – </span><span class="TitleChar">The Obama administration is preparing for a .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Rumblings so far from the GOP side have not favored ratification.</span>


**CTBT is key to prevent proliferation**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">US. Department of State 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(The united states department of state, Government agency, The Case for the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty: Some Key Points, September 1, 2011, [[http://www.state.gov/t/avc/rls/171305.htm]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The CTBT helps restrain further nuclear .....</span><span style="color: #252525; font-size: 10.6667px;"> continues to limit our ability to promote a global ban.</span>



**Proliferation leads to extinction**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Roberts 99 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Researcher at the Institute for Defense Analysis, Research Institute for Defense Analysis, The Nonproliferation Review Fall)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This brings us then to the question ... including both preemptive and accidental war.</span>


==EU Arctic Council CP== 

**Text: The European Union should establish an Arctic Council to enact an international law over the arctic.**

**Only EU solves – cooperation and US isnt a member**
**VANDERZWAAG et al 9**(David VanderZwaag<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>Dalhousie University - Schulich School of Law<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>TimoKoivurova<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>University of Lapland - Arctic Centre - Northern Institute for Environmental and Minority Law, June 11, 2009<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>Journal of Transnational Law & Policy, Vol. 18, No. 2, 247, 2009, [[http://www.law.fsu.edu/journals/transnational/vol18_2/koivurova.pdf]])
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The cornerstones of the current international ......</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and the International Sea-Bed Authority</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (ISA) is charged with organizing and controlling all activities of</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> exploration for, and exploitation of, the resources of the Area.25</span>

==LOST DA== 

**Even though the US hasn’t __signed__ the law of the sea treaty, we __adhere to it and recognize it as the governing law of the arctic__ – the plan’s __attempt at land-grabbing__ reverses the trend**
**Roth ‘11**
<span style="font-size: 12px;">[Copyright (c) 2011 Yeshiva University Cardozo Journal of International and Comparative Law Summer, 2011 Cardozo Journal of International and Comparative Law 19 Cardozo J. Int'l & Comp. L. 851</span><span style="font-size: 4px;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">BIO: * Juris Doctor, Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, June 2010. The majority of the research for this Note was conducted during the 2008-09 academic year. Despite changes in the Arctic region's political landscape since that time, the primary thesis advocating for consensus-based mediation still applies.]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The "Age of the Arctic" has arrived</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. n1 Over the past decade, .....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> United Nations Convention of the Law of the Sea</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (UNCLOS or Convention).</span>


**LOST compliance determines the __direction of US foreign policy__ – abandoning it spurs aggressive unilateralism and rogue retaliation against American interests**
**Washington Note ‘7**
<span style="font-size: 12px;">[Washington Note by Newstex. 10/10/7, ln]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">I've had something of a one-track mind these past **__.....__**</span> __**progressives who pick their battles carefully should be taking on right now.**__



**That __ensures__ every scenario for extinction – including Iran strikes, terrorism, and US-China war (bush doctrine)**
**Record ‘3**
<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Jeffrey, Senior Fellow Institute Foreign Policy Analysis, Parameters, [[http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/03spring/record.htm]])</span>
__For the U__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates, </span>__the risk is **doctrinal .....**__ __relations with the rest of the world__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>



**It’s also an __independent scenario for US-Russian war__ that causes extinction**
**Eachus ‘8**
<span style="font-size: 12px;">[Ron. Former Senator and Fellow @ Heritage Institute. “US Should Sign Treaty to Stake Claim in Arctic” Statesman Journal, 9-10-8. Ebsco//JVOSS] </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> hypothetical Northwest Passage via the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Arctic Ocean .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> limited to unilateral assertion of power reserved for the mighty, isn't in our interests either. </span>

==<span style="font-size: 17px;">2NR</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 17px;">Topicality "In"</span>


=<span style="font-size: 20px;">Octos vs. Gulliver Prep MZ--NIB</span>= 

==T== 

**Interpretation—increase means a __net__ increase**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Words and Phrases, 5 </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">(Cummulative Supplementary Pamphlet, v. 20a, p.295, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Cal.App.2 Dist. 1991.</span>**__<span style="color: #000000;">Term “increase</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">,” as used .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> units at plant. West’s Ann.Cal.Pub.Res.Code § 25123.</span>

**Violation—an infrastructure bank won’t __net__ increase total transportation investment**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lamberton, 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (9/7/2011, Giles, “Feds Weigh Infrastructure Financial Solutions,” [[http://www.constructionequipmentguide.com/Feds-Weigh-Infrastructure-Financial-Solutions/16865/]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The proposals are more alike than they **__.....__**</span> **__existing highway and transit programs.”__**

==**Fem K (Round 2)**== 


==DA (Round 2)== 


**Plan is unpopular with the public**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Alden, 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> --- Senior Fellow at CFR (6/14/2012, Edward, “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere,” [[@http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]]) //NK//</span>
//<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">But congressional </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**inaction**</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> in many ways </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**reflects public ambivalence**</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Americans want unclutteredhighways, efficient airports, and seamless mass transit systems,** </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">but </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**they are**</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> either </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**reluctant to pay**</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> for these things </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**or doubt the ability of governments to deliver**</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">. The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**overdue backlash against pork barrel politics for favored projects**</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">, for instance, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**seems to have hardened into a** </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">deeper public cynicism about the ability of government to deliver any needed public works</span>//<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">. Even </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**proposals like**</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> using a </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**federal seed money to create**</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> a </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**N**</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">ational </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**I**</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">nfrastructure </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**B**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ank</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;"> that would funnel private investor (not taxpayer) money into new projects </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**have been unable to get through Congress**</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>




==CP== 

**Text:The 50 states and all relevant territories should establish and fund infrastructure banks. These banks should—**
**--cover a broad a range of projects to address the needs of communities**
**--include enabling legislation that specifies the decision-making body and process for the state infrastructure ban and make public input must be part of the project selection process**
**--give environmental and job standards serious consideration in funding decisions**
**--blend financing from a variety of sources so that no one population carries a disproportionate burden and include provisions that make taxes or fees progressive and ensure good projects are funded in a variety of communities.**

**The counterplan ensures __effective__ state infrastructure banks**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Christman& Riordan, 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> --- policy analysts at the National Employment Law Project (December 2011, Anastasia Christman and Christine Riordan, National Employment Law Project Briefing Paper, “State Infrastructure Banks: Old Idea Yields New Opportunities for Job Creation,” [[http://nelp.3cdn.net/fadb21502631e6cb79_vom6b8ccu.pdf]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Creating SIBs That Work</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In the current budget climate, pushing for new </span>**__.....__** **__progressive and that ensure good projects are funded in a variety of communities.__**

**States can cooperate with the private sector to fund infrastructure --- __federal__ requirements drive up costs and cause delays**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Furchtgott-Roth, 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> --- senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute (5/26/2011, Diana, “Let's Leave Our Roads to the States,” [[http://www.realclearmarkets.com/articles/2011/05/26/lets_leave_our_roads_to_the_states_99043.html]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Mr. Kerry envisages the infrastructure bank as independent, **__.....__** </span>**__solve their own transportation problems.__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> This Memorial Day, as we sit in traffic jams, the choice is clear.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 17px;">2NR</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 17px;">States CP</span>
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Heg Bad</span>