**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The plan:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The following agencies of the executive branch of the United States federal government: the Department of Transportation, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of State, NASA, and the Department of Education should invest in the construction and unblocking of dirt roads as a means of traversing lines of flight in the policy debate community.</span>**

[[media type="youtube" key="JPeCNsS2jLo" width="425" height="350"]]

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">From the manifesto of the little monsters:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">“It is in the theory of perception that we have established our bond. Or, the lie, I should say, for which we kill. We are nothing without our projection. We are nothing without our image. Without the spiritual hologram of who we perceive ourselves to be, or to become, in the future.”</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Humans are nothing more than the perception of a void wherein self-perception will always struggle and transform. One must endlessly make the journey through iden</span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt;">tity and come out on the end of a circle; blood-caked, beaten, and dirty, as a sexy cyborg monster.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Eddie </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">McCaffray </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">PhD student studying medieval history at Arizona State University), “Bifurcation of the Simple,” Gaga Stigmata, August 18, 20</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (http://gagajournal.blogspot.com/2011/08/bifurcation-of-simple.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus the </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">“Yoü and I”</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> video </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">is perhaps... </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">different from the gulf between two selves.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The State constantly appropriates and re-appropriates all social space in order to prevent effective resistance</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14px;">.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Deleuze and Guattari</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(A couple of schizophrenics), “Anti-Oedipus: Capitalism and Schizophrenia,” 19</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">72</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It has often been remarked that </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the State... </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">narrow control over commerce (the merchant as functionary).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Understanding Identity Within the Context of Law and the State as a Central Authority is Fundamentally Problematic—Not Only is Law External to the Discourses that Produce it, But Law-Connected Identity is Ultimately an Embrace of Oppression and Imperialism</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Farid Samir Benavides </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Vanegas</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of Legal Studies at UMass), “HERMENEUTICAL VIOLENCE: HUMAN RIGHTS, LAW, AND THE CONSTITUTION OF A GLOBAL IDENTITY,” International Journal for the Semiotics of Law, 20</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">04</span>**
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The law has been tied to the nation... </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">deserve the gratitude of the silent and ignorant millions’…’’</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Schizophrenia pushes machines to their limits – through operating between poles of intensity we can uproot the violent territorialization of the state</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Deleuze and Guattari</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (A couple of schizophrenics), “Anti-Oedipus: Capitalism and Schizophrenia,” 19</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">72</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">What we are really trying to say is that </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">capitalism... </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">and desiring-machines.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">*This evidence has been gender-edited</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Strutting down dirt roads and traversing lines of flight orient us towards the Body without Organs, or, our image of who we become. Orgasm and torture, life and death and the opposition therein are metastable states through which subjects become.</span>**
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">Deleuze and Guattari</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (A couple of schizophrenics), “Anti-Oedipus: Capitalism and Schizophrenia,” 19</span>**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">72</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The question becomes: ...</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">passes through its white-hot flame</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Doin’ it for the fame – escape from the State can only occur within transition through the gulf of identity, or, “becoming.” Becoming divine, becoming famous, becoming little monster and making a pact with the Trickster opens the only gateway to transcendence – we must dominate the system and become dominated for any hope of escape.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Keri </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ferencz</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (M.A. in Popular Culture at Brock University), “A 'Fame Hooker' Speaking in Future Tense: Prophets and Profit in 'Judas,'" Gaga Stigmata, May 8th, 20</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (http://gagajournal.blogspot.com/2011/05/fame-hooker-speaking-in-future-tense.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">With its undeniable ties to commerce and capitalism... thus her Judas, consumer culture.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">We Must Embrace Schizophrenia And Fame To Create Space in the Postmodern Hurricane – Like A Paper-Jam, Lodging Lines Of Flight Into Traditional Threat Environments Is The Only Way To Solve</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Devin </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">O’Neill</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (writer, performance artist, and branding practitioner), “THE NEW FLESH,” Gaga Stigmata, February 21, 20</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (http://gagajournal.blogspot.com/2012/02/new-flesh.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">In order to properly engage constituent human fight-or-flight mechanisms...</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Read carefully, live courageously, and be a monster. But not a little one. Not anymore.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Whether or Not Our Strategies are Resistant in and of Themselves is Irrelevant—The Question is How We Read and Utilize these Approaches to Disrupt The Status Quo</span>**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Ella </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bedard</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Scholar of Contemporary History, “’Can't Read My Poker Face’: The Postmodern Aesthetic & Mimesis of Lady Gaga,” Gaga Stigmata, August 17th, 20</span><span class="reduce2">**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">10</span>**</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(http://gagajournal.blogspot.com/2010/08/cant-read-my-poker-face-postmodern.html)</span>
With her constant imitation... Gaga presents as a phenomenon of late capitalist post-modernity.