{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf230
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\info
{\author Shiraz}
{\*\company Hewlett-Packard}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh13340\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa200

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I negate resolved:\
To clarify, I offer the following definitions\
Ought- used to express obligation\
(Merriam- Webster)\
Due process- the regular administration of the law, according to which no citizen may be denied his or her legal rights and all laws must conform to fundamental, accepted legal principles, as the right of the accused to confront his or her accusers\
(American Heritage Dictionary)		\
Observation 1: As per the definition, due process protections clearly apply to only those who are citizens within the US.\
The priority for this round is the well-being and safety of all civilians and citizens who are part of this country, thus, the value for this round is 
\b \ul national security
\b0 \ulnone . National security is the most immediate entity that is being threatened by the harm of terrorism therefore, it is required that we look at the preservation of the safety of all people within the US.\
The most efficient way to achieve national security against the apparent continuous threat of terrorism to 
\b \ul enforce the denial of due process protections of non-citizens suspected of terrorism.
\b0 \ulnone  \
Contention 1: Cannot provide due process rights- not possible\
The purpose of a criminal justice system is formed on the basis that while some criminal acts can be tolerated by society, they should be punished in order to prevent even these tolerable criminal acts from happening in the future. However, terrorist attacks are such acts of crime that can\'92t be tolerated within a society therefore the preventative measure needed will differ from those of the basic crimes. The court system is not the correct method by which preventative measures can be taken because, in terrorist cases, when using the rules of evidence in a court, important evidence providing a firm basis to believe that a suspect is a dangerous being to society would be inadmissible because these would not coincide with the rules concerning evidence allowing the suspect to withstand being convicted. Also, bringing about evidence into the court room could reveal basic methods and techniques of finding information from terrorist suspects which if given access to the media and public, could considerably harm national security. Lastly, if the standard of \'93reasonable beyond doubt\'94 is used, firm evidence indicating dangerousness of a person would still allow a great chance for him to be released.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb200\sa200
\cf0 Morris states:
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa200

\b0\fs20 \cf0 Madeline 
\b Morris et. al, Professor of Law at Duke University, June 30\super th\nosupersub , 2009, \'93After Guantanamo: War, Crime, and Detention.\'94 Harvard Law and Policy Review. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://scholarship.law.duke.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2630&context=faculty_scholarship&sei}}
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 	
\fs18 Criminal justice is the appropriate legal vehicle for handling the bulk of terrorist 
\f1 \

\f0 activity.
\b \ul 1
\fs24 The criminal law is not
\b0 \ulnone , 
\fs18 however,
\fs24  
\b \ul the appropriate mechanism for preventing the most serious forms of terrorist attack, which threaten cataclysmic harm.
\b0 \ulnone    \
	
\b \ul Criminal law is grounded on the premise that a society can tolerate some rate of serious crime.
\b0 \ulnone  
\fs18 The premise is reflected in the substantive, evidentiary, and procedural law governing criminal justice.
\fs24   
\b \ul There is, however, no tolerable rate of the most serious forms of terrorism, which may include catastrophic nuclear, biological, chemical, or cyber attack, or a cumulatively
\f1  
\f0 catastrophic series of conventional attacks.
\b0 \ulnone   
\fs18 While a Justice Department official might speak proudly of \'93the low rate of crime last year,\'94 he would not speak proudly of the \'93low rate of nuclear attack\'94\'97unless it were zero.  
\b\fs24 \ul The enterprise of preventing the most serious terrorist attacks thus rests on considerations critically distinct from those underpinning the criminal law. 
\f1 \

\f0\b0 \ulnone 	
\b \ul Several specific obstacles to the successful criminal prosecution of terrorism cases reflect this underlying incongruity.  First, evidence that may be a highly reliable indicator of dangerousness may also be, in some instances, inadmissible in a criminal trial.  Take, for example, corroborated hearsay.  Imagine that three informants report hearsay statements 
\b0 \ulnone indicating
\b \ul  that 
\b0 \ulnone the suspect is plotting a biological weapons attack.  Although the three informants have not communicated with each other, the three statements 
\b \ul contain identical details that could not be coincidental
\b0 \ulnone .  There is also physical evidence that corroborates the hearsay statements.
\b \ul  All of the hearsay statements, no matter how reliably they may indicate dangerousness
\b0 \ulnone , 
\b \ul are inadmissible in a criminal trial, under the 
\b0 \ulnone relevant
\b \ul  rules of evidence.  
\b0 \ulnone And the physical evidence, uninformed by the hearsay testimony, is meaningless (or, if not meaningless, then certainly not proof beyond a reasonable doubt).  In this situation,
\b \ul  prosecution is not a viable option\'97even though there may be sound basis to believe that the person is too dangerous to release. \

\b0 \ulnone 	
\b \ul A second problem frequently affecting terrorism prosecutions concerns classified information.  The presentation of certain evidence at trial 
\b0 \ulnone (by the prosecution or the defense)
\b \ul  may compromise sensitive intelligence\'97or reveal the methods or sources used for gaining intelligence\'97with resultant damage to national security.
\b0 \ulnone   
\fs18 Some commentators dismiss this problem, noting that many terrorism cases have been successfully prosecuted in federal courts.2 But
\fs24  
\b \ul the relevant question is not whether some terrorism cases can be prosecuted successfully in federal courts\'97clearly, some can\'97but, rather, whether some cannot.
\b0 \ulnone   
\fs18 There is no publicly available list of the terrorism cases that were not prosecuted because of the national-security costs that would have been associated with disclosing the necessary evidence in those trials.  
\f1 \

\f0\fs24 	
\fs18 The 
\b\fs24 \ul third
\b0\fs18 \ulnone  problem (and the one most unpleasant to articulate) is the standard of proof.
\b\fs24 \ul   Criminal conviction requires proof beyond a reasonable doubt
\i .
\i0\b0 \ulnone   
\b \ul That standard should not
\b0 \ulnone  
\fs18 be eroded.  Nor, however, should it 
\b\fs24 \ul be applied to the prevention of high-magnitude terrorism.
\b0 \ulnone  
\b \ul Is it really smart to release an individual shown by \'93clear and convincing evidence\'94 
\b0 \ulnone (the standard of proof one step below \'93reasonable doubt\'94, often used in civil cases)
\b \ul  to have attempted a nuclear attack or a release of smallpox virus?
\i  
\i0   If the answer is no, then criminal law is not the right tool for preventing catastrophic terrorism.
\b0 \ulnone  
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa200

\f0 \cf0 \
Allowing due process rights to be given is impossible if the US legal system wishes to ensure national security. Cases do not always have the capability to be submitted into court for hearing because of national security measures and could also provide a greater margin to release a suspected terrorist even with strong compelling evidence. This would defeat the purpose of taking preventative measures for terrorist attacks.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240
\cf0 Contention 2: Trying suspected terrorists allows the defense of destructive, bad acts\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 Not only trying, but extending suspected terrorists creates an atmosphere where unjustifiable acts are allowed the platform to be defended and thus "sanitizes" the true essence of the destructiveness of the act. This does not only harm the legal system, but allows for people to be responsive to a viewpoint that creates such risks to innocent people in the US and all around the world.\
\
Drumbl states:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240

\fs16 \cf0 This confused response is understandable. After all,
\fs26  
\b\fs24 \ul no matter how much the attack is intellectualized and compartmentalized as a crime, it feels like \'93more than just\'94 a crime, especially to \'93us\'94 as victims
\b0\fs16 \ulnone . In many ways, finding the attack to be \'93just\'94 criminal insufficiently assesses its heinousness or \'93feels wrong\'94 or is \'93unsatisfactory\'94 at a gut-level.69 After all
\fs24 ,
\b \ul  it is almost trivially true that the attack was criminal: it involved murder, injury, hijacking, and property destruction. But describing it this way literally denudes the attack of its true nature. And prosecuting and punishing accused individuals under domestic criminal law almost sanitizes their conduct as that of the ordinary common criminal.
\b0 \ulnone  
\fs16 This may be one reason why military commissions have such popular appeal.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 Drumbl, Mark A. "Judging the 11 September Terrorist Attack." \ul Human Rights Quarterly\ulnone  24.2 (2002): 323-360. 
\i Project MUSE
\i0 . Web. 29 Aug. 2012. <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://muse.jhu.edu/}}>.
\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\fs24 \cf0 \
\
}