{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf290
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25100\viewh15040\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 	I affirm.\
\
	Definitions: "Ought" is "A verb used to express obligation". "Universal Health Care" is "A health insurance program that is financed by taxes and administered by the government to provide comprehensive health care that is accessible to all citizens of that nation".\
\
	My value premise is Morality, as implied from "Ought". Morality is "The determination of what is good or bad".\
\
	My value criterion is Increasing Societal Welfare, defined as "Increasing the well-being of the entire society", since by social contract theory, the government must act to promote the general welfare of the people in order to be a moral and legitimate government. This interpretation of social contract theory is supported by John Locke, who argued that any government that acted against the will of the people could be overthrown. My value criterion is justified, because "ought" suggests that the government needs to fulfill its moral obligation, which in this context is to provide "Societal Welfare" for the greatest good of the people. We will measure the efficacy of Increasing Societal Welfare through the Human Development Index and the Physical Quality of Life Index.\
\
	Observation 1: The resolution does not imply that government-run health care is the only option for American citizens, it merely guarantees that it is available for US citizens who wish to use it. Therefore, Government provided Universal Health Care is mutually inclusive with privately-run health care.\
\
	Observation 2: Guaranteeing Universal Health Care would fulfill moral obligation.\
According to John Rawls, providing Universal Health Care fulfills governments' moral obligation to protect individuals. The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 25, affirms that each individual has the right to medical care, social services, and health security. It is clear that Universal Health Care is a moral obligation that must be fulfilled by government.\
\
	Contention 1: Guaranteeing Universal Health Care would cost-effectively improve quality of life.\
Marcus Davies: "[There are] 49.9 million uninsured Americans". The National Center for Health Statistics 2005: "40 million Americans could not afford essential medical procedures because of lack of insurance". CIA Factbook 2011: "Canada\'92s life expectancy rate is 81.48 years, the UK\'92s is 80.17 years, Denmark\'92s is 80.71 years, and Australia\'92s is 80.19 years, whereas the US\'92 is 78.49 years." The only possible reason is health care, since that is the only consistent factor for all of these countries besides the US. Karin Robinson 2011: "Here in Britain, for instance, we\'a0spend about 8%\'a0of the country's annual GDP on health care, compared to 15% in the US, and yet the overall health of the population is similar, with perhaps even a slight advantage for the UK." If the UK is able to provide UHC using only 8% of their annual GDP, they\'92re providing more efficient and higher quality care. Rachel Lu and William Hsiao 2011: "Adopting Universal Health Care would lead to an increase in both the Human Development Index and the Physical Quality of Life Index". Ireland stated in 2011, "Currently, privatized health care costs are incredibly inflated. A universal health care system would be government regulated, so costs overall would be reduced." The grand impact of the contention is that Universal Health Care would cost-effectively improve quality of life of Americans.\
\
	Contention 2: Guaranteeing Universal Health Care would save lives.\
First, in 2009, the Harvard Medical School Study affirmed that lack of Universal Health Care leads to nearly 45 thousand deaths in the United States per year. The same study found that people without health insurance have a 40 percent higher risk of death compared to those with health insurance. In 2012, Kim Bailey showed that 3 Americans die each hour because of lack of health insurance." In a Universal Health Care system, everyone would be given health insurance, therefore no one would die due to lack of health insurance. The grand impact is that guaranteeing Universal Health Care would cost-effectively prevent tens of thousands of deaths per year.\
\
	Contention 3: Guaranteeing Universal Health Care would eliminate effects of bioterrorism.\
By definition, Universal Health Care includes government protection against outbreaks, either intentional or natural. This means that the government ought to guarantee Universal Health Care to safeguard against bioterrorism. Dave Gaubatz reports that "Bioterrorist incidents have increased since 1985, killing thousands of people. The vast majority of incidents have produced considerable social disruption. Terrorist sleeper cells are located primarily in North Carolina, Michigan, and Canada. The 'sleepers' are prepared to conduct Bioterrorist attacks within the U.S., and nuclear material is available to them." Bohon 2012: "Terrorists are likely to attack somewhere in the world in the next three years, and the United States could be a prime target. The likelihood is high that by 2013 terrorists will use an attack using biological weapons with devastating consequences. The consequences of a biological attack are almost beyond comprehension. It would be 9/11 times a hundred in terms of the number of people who would be killed. Noting the millions of Americans who died as a result of the epidemic flu virus of 1918, a lab-generated biological agent in the hands of terrorists could prove far worse." The impact of this is that guaranteeing Universal Health Care would help save the lives of thousands, while protecting the quality of life of millions from dangerous outbreaks.\
\
	Contention 4: Guaranteeing Universal Health Care would prevent economic collapse.\
Leatherman 2010: "For every million health care dollars spent in Kansas, an extra \'bd million dollars is generated through additional sales of goods and services \'96 a multiplier effect of 1.5. The Kansas economy benefits immensely from the health care sector and will collapse if current increase in health care cost continue. Without the jobs and purchases of goods and services contributed by the health care sector, the state\'92s economy would be in dire straits." The impact is that Universal Health Care will prevent the economy of the US from collapsing, which would severely reduce the quality of life of US citizens.\
\
	Contention 5: US economic collapse would cause world wars.\
Walter Mead 2009: "If financial crises have been a normal part of life during the last 300 years, so has war. Bad economic times breed wars. [Look at the rise of Nazi Germany, for example.] If the US economy collapses, what rough beasts might start slouching toward Moscow, Karachi, Beijing, or New Delhi? If we can't get the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight." The impact is that US economic collapse would lead to large global conflicts that would kill millions of people.\
\
}