[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
For specific aff cites e-mail: [[mailto:erik.howard8@gmail.com|erik.howard8@gmail.com]]
=1AC WAKE= 

**SPS inevitable- eight countries**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NSSO 7</span> **–** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">report by the National Security Space Office, a branch of the DOD</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(“Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf|__http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf__]], dml)</span>
The __SBSP Study...__<span class="Underline"> a framework immediately.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Japan**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Matai 10</span> – <span style="font-size: 9pt;">PhD in Engineering, won The Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the category of Innovation for Bespoke Security Architecture in 2003, authority on countering complex global threats; strategic risk management & visualisation; contingency planning; Information Operations (IO); electronic defence; biometric authentication; secure payment systems and Open Source hardened kernel solutions</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">DK, 6-13-2010, “Japan Takes Lead in Wireless Power? 21stC Global Energy Supply,” Asymmetric Threats Contingency Alliance, http://www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/frameset.php?pageid=http%3A//www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/press/130610.php</span>
In the footsteps... 21st century and beyond!

<span class="Underline">**ESA**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Coppinger 08**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (8/15/08, Fight Global Serious About Aviation, “ESA funds technology for Earth and Moon Based SBSP” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.flightglobal.com/blogs/hyperbola/2008/08/esa-funds-technology-for-earth.html</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>
The European Space... mid-term potential"

**India**
**Williams 07** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Mark, writer for technology review, “India’s Space Ambitions Soar”, July 30, technology review, [[http://www.technologyreview.com/computing/19115/page1/]])</span>
As China's star... these exploration missions."

**Thus the plan:**
**The United States federal government should deploy space-based solar power satellites beyond the Earth's mesosphere.**

**ADV 2**
**Heg declining now- 35 countries challenge US position**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis 07 </span>[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGreport.pdf|__http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGreport.pdf__]]
<span class="Underline">Although the United... completion by 2013.14</span>

**SPS is vital to space leadership**
**<span style="color: black;">Ramos 2k</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, <span style="color: black;">[[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]</span>)</span>
Should the Air... well as power.

**Space leadership the backbone of US hegemony**
**Stevens 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert J. Stevens – Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Lockheed Martin Corporation, summa cum laude graduate of Slippery Rock University, master's degree in engineering and management from the Polytechnic University of New York, with a Fairchild Fellowship, earned a master's degree in business administration from Columbia Business School, graduate of the Department of Defense Systems Management College Program Management, served in the United States Marine Corps, (Lockheed Martin, 4/10/2007, 23rd National Space Symposium, “The Next 50 Years of U.S. Space Leadership”, http://www.lockheedmartin.com/news/speeches/Next50YearsOfUSSpaceLeadership.html)</span>
I want to... <span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">is developing them</span>__</span>.”


**SPS ends US fossil fuel dependence**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bova 8</span> –award-winning editor and an executive in the aerospace industry
Ben, “TO THE NEXT PRESIDENT From Ben Bova,” 10-2008, http://www.benbova.com/presidentltr1.html
Once you enter... from fossil fuels.


**Reducing our oil dependency is critical to our US heg**
<span class="Heading2Char">Deutch and Schesinger 06</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Chair of the Task Force, is an Institute Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Chair of the Task Force, is Chairman of the MITRE Corporation and a Senior Adviser at Lehman Brothers.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John and James, INDEPENDENT TASK FORCE REPORT No. 58, National Security Consequences of U.S. Oil Dependency, Council on Foreign Relations</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">First,</span><span class="HeaderChar">the control... or even counterproductive**.**</span>

**SPS creates the infrastructure to develop the rest of space**
**<span style="color: black;">Preble, 9 - </span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Chair of the Space Solar Power Workshop (Darel, “Space Solar Power: Star Player on the Bench,” 4/19, The Oil Drum,</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.theoildrum.com/node/5306]]</span>
Many other space... Earth, for example.

**Technology solves for extinction**
**Baker 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Former Industrial Economist</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Brent Barker, electrical engineer, and manager of corporate communications for the Electric Power Research Institute and former industrial economist and staff author at SRI International and as a commercial research analyst at USX Corporation, “Technology and the Quest for Sustainability.” EPRI Journal, Summer, INFOTRAC</span>
International and as Thatfuture begins now.

**Technological development is the key to US hegemony**
**Segal 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Maurice R. Greenberg Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Adam, “Is America Losing its edge?” Foreign Affairs, November/December 2004)</span>
The United States... entrepreneurship at home.

**SPS programs solves alternative energy**
**Woody 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Todd Woody, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">staff writer for Space Future,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">New York Times, 12/3/9, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://green.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/12/03/solar-plant-in-space-gets-go-ahead/]]</span></span><span style="color: #6d6d6d; font-size: 8pt;">, 6/23/11, KJ)</span>
California regulators on... on in 2016.

<span class="Underline">**SPS solves the environment**</span>

<span class="Underline"> **Klare 10**-- </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">a professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College (6/22/10, Michael T., AlterNet, “Four Possible BP-Style Extreme Energy Nightmares to Come”, http://www.alternet.org/story/147293/four_possible_bp-style_extreme_energy_nightmares_to_come/?page=1)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">At the onset... basis in fact.</span>


<span class="Underline">**US environmental leadership is key to prevent environment degredation** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Ivanova* and Esty** in 8 -</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *Assistant Professor of Government and Environmental Policy at The College of William and Mary and the Director of the Global Environmental Governance Project at the Yale Center for Environmental Law and Policy, and </span>**Hillhouse Professor of Environmental Law and Policy at Yale University (2008. “ Reclaiming U.S. Leadership in Global Environmental Governance ” Vol 28 No. 2. http://mxivan.people.wm.edu/Ivanova&Esty-SAIS%20Review-2008.pdf)
<span class="Underline">What has confused... a regulatory character</span>

**Environmental collapse causes extinction.**
**Cairns ‘4** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(John, Distinguished Emeritus University Prof. Env. Biology – Viginia Tech, “Future of Life on Earth,” Ethics in Science and Environmental Politics, http://www.int-res.com/esepbooks/EB2Pt2.pdf)</span>
One lesson from... to live unsustainably?

**Environmental policy is key to hegemony**
**Walter 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> chief economist at Deutsche Bank Group </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Norbert, “An American Abdication”, New York Times, Aug 28, Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19)</span>
At present there... global environmental issues<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Heg solves all conflcits**
**Thayer 6—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tenured prof of pol sci, Baylor. former associate prof of Defense and Strategic Study, Missouri State. Former Research Fellow, International Security Program, JFK School of Government at Harvard. MA in IR from U Chicago and BA in philosophy. PhD in pol sci, U Chicago </span><span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">(Bradley, Nov/Dec, In Defense of Primacy, The National Interest)</span>
U.S. primacy--and... great power wars.

Collapse of US hegemony causes a global power vacuum resulting in nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ferguson 04</span> professor of history at New York University's Stern School of Business and senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University (Niall, “A World without Power”, Foreign Policy )
Could an apolar... <span class="underline0">new world disorder</span>

**America will also intervene in world affiars- No uniqueness for impact turns**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Shalmon and Horowitz ’09</span> (Dan, total badass, Mike, less of a badass, Orbis, Spring)
<span class="underline0">It is important...</span> the global order


<span class="Underline">**Hegemony is key to prevent great power war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Zhang* and Shi** 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and </span>**Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/</span>
<span class="Underline">Paul Kennedy was probably... unrivalled US primacy</span>

**Heg is the anchor of global stability that solves every scenario for nuclear war and solidifies the world economy – offshore balancing can’t solve**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kagan 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Robert, Senior Fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution (January 24, 2011, “The Price of Power,” http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/price-power_533696.html?page=3)</span>
Others have. For... not fall over.
=Negative= 
For specific neg cites e-mail: [[mailto:anshumanparikh@gmail.com|anshumanparikh@gmail.com]]

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]