[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 



THE UNITED STATES HAS BECOME THE SOVEREIGN. THE POLICY OF ASSASSINATIONS AND TARGET KILLINGS IS SHELTERED WITH DENIAL OF INFORMATION FOR ACCESS AND DEATHS OF CIVILIANS.
Josh <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meyer, 2006</span></span> (“<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[AppData/AppData/Roaming/Microsoft/Word/Macintosh HD:/component/content/article/157-un/27027.html|CIA Expands Use of Drones in Terror War]]</span>”, google, accessed 6/26/10)-Wey
<span class="cardChar">__Despite protests from other countries,__ financing and influence</span>.


<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Warfare has evolved into the destruction of “targets” through the soldiers median of the computer screen creates an optical detachment that makes any kind of ethical relation to the silhouettes of people seen in-between crosshairs impossible</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gregory 2007</span>** [Derek, Dept. of Geography University of British Columbia at Vancouver, ‘In another time-zone, the bombs fall unsafely…’ Targets, civilians and late modern war, Arab World Geographer 9 (2007): 88-112//HS]//
//<span class="underline0">The </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">second </span><span class="underline0">injured and killed there. </span>//



//**THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD END ITS TARGET KILLING AND ASSASSINATION FORCECS IN TOPIC COUNTRIES.**//



//**TARGET KILLINGS ARE THE ULTIMATE FORM OF PREEMPTION. THE THREAT ISN’T SPECIFIED. IT CAN EMERGE AT ANY MOMENT. THERE IS NO REASON FOR ITS HATRED. THESE FALSE CLAIMS FORCE US TO ACT LIKE THEM IN A HUNT DESIGNED TO ANTAGONIZE THREATS TO ATTACK JUSTIFIED BY WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN.**//
//**<span style="color: black;">Massumi 2007</span>** (Brian, Massumi is currently teaching at <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universit%C3%A9_de_Montr%C3%A9al|Université de Montréal]]</span>, in the Communication Sciences Department and in the Media and Communications division at European Graduate School in Saas-Fee. He received his <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ph.D|Ph.D]]</span> in Philosophy from Yale University in 1987)//
//<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: 0.25in;">Deterrence does not __as fear and remains politically actuatable.__ </span>//




//THIS SOVEREIGN TARGETING OF BODIES IS THE ABSOLUTE FACE OF VIOLENCE. IN THE REALM OF PREEMPTION ALL ACTIONS ARE A JUSTIFIED SHOULD BE OR MIGHT HAE BEEN WHILE THOSE NOT GUILTY ARE KILLED AND THE EXECUTIONERS PRAISED. POLITICS IS VAPORIZED AS PRECRIME LOGIC DECIDES WHO LIVES AND WHO DIES IN RACIST FASHION THAT JUSTIFIES SLAUGHTER OF ANYONE DENIED THE RIGHT TO LIFE.//
//<span class="cite">Goh ’06</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006, [[http://fastcapitalism.com/]]]</span>//
//<span style="text-indent: 0.15in;">At present, __the time of__</span>//
//<span style="text-indent: 0.15in;"> <span class="underline0">to disagree with the consensus, the consensus of the preemptive in all its forms. </span></span>//



//**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Iraq and Afghanistan are only preview of wars justified in the name of humanitarian biopolitics. Because unending threats to the population must be neutralized, global biopolitics structurally necessitates nuclear annihilation. </span>**//
//Michael **Dillon,** **Professor of Politics at** the University of **Lancaster,** UK **and** Julian **Reid,** Lecturer in International Relations at Kings College London, UK, and **Professor of International Relations at** the University of **Lapland**, Finland. The Liberal Way of War: Killing to Make Life Live. 200**9**. 30-3.//
//<span style="color: black; margin-left: -0.5in;">One way of </span>//
//<span style="margin-left: -0.5in;"> <span class="underline0"><span style="color: black;">From the analytics of finitude, politically, has t<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">hus arisen an infinity of securitization and fear. </span></span></span></span>//







//<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Vote affirmative to break the confines of pre-emption and the state’s control over the right to live or die. The alternative brings about new democratic norms that break out of pre-emption </span>//
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goh ’06</span></span> [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://fastcapitalism.com/]]</span>]//

//<span style="text-indent: 0.15in;"> Wrong. The fact remains </span>//
//<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0.25in;">__in disagreement with the preemptive is none other than but now.__ </span>//

New contention: Solvency




=Negative= 
Greenhill round 6 vs. Bishop Guertin MS:

==Time Cube== 
**THE AFFIRMATIVE'S USE OF THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ENDORSES GENOCIDE OF CUBICS EVERYWHERE**
//**Ray**, Gene S. "Time Cube."// Time Cube//. Cubics, 20**12**. Web. 14 Apr. 2010. <http://www.timecube.com/>.//
//EARTH HAS 4 CORNER ... __STOP THE EVIL ADULTS BEFORE THEY DESTROY YOUR LIFE ON EARTH.__//

//**VOTE NEGATIVE TO ENDORSE OUR INNER CUBES AND REJECT EVIL EDUCATORS, SOLVING THE CASE.**//
//**Ray**, Gene S. "Time Cube."// Time Cube//. Cubics, 20**12**. Web. 13 Apr. 2010. <http://www.timecube.com/>.
__FREE SPEECH in AMERICA__ is ... GOD LIED, HE DID NOT CREATE 1 DAY, I CREATED 4 DAYS.
==<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**A-Spec** </span>== 


<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">A) INTERPRETATION-THE AFF MUST SPECIFY AGENT</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">B) VIOLATION-USFG IS NOT AN ACTOR</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brovero in ‘94</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Adrienne, Immigration Policies Expert, http:www.wfu.edu/Student-organizations/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Brovero1994Immigration.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The problem is ... agent of action.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">C) VOTERS</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1. GROUND-DENY SPECIFIC LINKS TO OUR A-STRAT: POLITICS, IMPLEMENTATION TAKEOUTS, AND AGENTS CPS- 90 PERCENT OF POLICY IS IMPLEMENTATION</span>
(elmore 80)
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">2. NO SOLVENCY-BROVERO INDICATES USFG DOES NOT ENACT POLICIES</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">3. NOT TOPICAL-THERE NOT FIRM ON AGENT WHICH VIOLATES RESOLVED “TO TAKE A FIRM COURSE OF ACTION”-THAT’S DICTIONARY.COM</span>
==Cap K== 
**SOMETHING IS STIRRING IN THE HEARTS OF THE OPPRESSED. THE MUFFLED CRIES OF HUNGER AND SUBORDINATION ARE RESONATING ON AN INCREASINGLY GLOBAL SCALE. THE RESONANCE OF COLLECTIVE ORGANIZATION, TRANSNATIONAL DIASPORA, GLOBAL LABOR MIGRATION, IS EMERGING FROM THE RUBBLE OF THE GLOBAL ECONOMY. THE INSURGENCY IS HERE THE QUESTION IS WHAT TACTICS WILL THE STATE USE IN RESPONSE. THE AFFIRMATIVE DEMAND IS THE FIRST VOLLEY IN THE COUNTER-INSURGENCY, A SLY MANEUVER OF CO-OPTATION, COUNTER-REVOLUTION IN THE NAME OF MODERATED CAPITALISM.** David Graeber, Lecturer in Anthropology at Goldsmiths College, December 8th [2008 [[http://endofcapitalism.com/2008/12/08/reawakening-the-revolutionary-imagination/#more-472]]] We are... something genuinely new. 

links differ depending upon the aff. So far we've read identity politics against Bishop guerten, heg links against woodward, and nato/bilat links against dulles.

**THE CHOICE IS REVOLUTION OR NUCLEAR ARMAGEDDON. VOTING NEGATIVE IS THE ONLY WAY TO PUT AN END TO THE SOCIAL ANTAGONISM THAT DRIVES INTERSTATE COMPETITION AND THE GLOBAL WAR ON THE POOR.** Callinicos ’04 [Alex, Director of the Centre for European Studies at King’s College, The Revolutionary Ideas of Karl Marx, 2004 pg. 196-197] Capitalism has not... then we must act on it. 
**WE HAVE AN A PRIORI ETHICAL OBLIGATION TO REJECT THE VIOLENCE OF GLOBAL CAPITALISM. THEIR UTILITARIAN RATIONALE CANNOT ACCOUNT FOR THE DEGRADED LIFE CHANCES OF BILLIONS ACROSS THE GLOBE. THERE MAY BE SOME THINGS WORSE THAN DEATH, BUT THE SAD THING IS YOU WILL NEVER KNOW, BECAUSE CAPITALISM MAKES ITS VICTIMS ANONYMOUS.** Daly 2004, (Glyn, Risking The Impossible) [[http://www.lacan.com/zizek-daly.htm]] For Zizek...the development of a political imagination that, like Zizek's own thought, exhorts us to risk the impossible. 

**ALT TEXT: REJECT REFORMISM IN FAVOR OF COMMUNAL RELATIONS OF SOLIDARITY OUTSIDE THE STATE TO SHELTER THE OPPRESSED FROM GLOBAL CAPITALISM.**
ONLY BY REJECTING CAPITALISM'S DRIVE TO COMMODIFY CAN WE ACCELERATE THE INSURGENT ALTERNATIVES ARISING ALL AROUND US. THIS IS CRITICAL- WE MUST CALL CAPITALISM'S BLUFF OF “THERE IS NO ALTERNATIVE” OR WE WILL ALL FACE THE EQUALITY OF NUCLEAR EXTINCTION. Marcuse, German Philosopher and Professor at Columbia and Harvard, 1969 (Herbert, member of the Frankfurt School, An Essay on Liberation, p. 85-91) What kind of life?...what we are going to do. 

==Specific Rounds== 


Greenhill: 

Rd. 2 Vs. Woodward:
1nc: Cap K
Block: Cap K
2nr: Cap K

Rd. 3 Vs. Westminster MW
1nc: Security K
Block: Security K
2nr: Security K

Rd 6 vs. Bishop Guertin MS
1nc: A-spec, Cap K
Block: A-spec, Cap K
2nr: Cap K

Grapevine:

Round 2 Vs. Benton:
1nc: A-spec, nuclear primacy disad, russian conditions CP, israel D/a
block: Nuclear primacy disad w/ cross applications from the russia counterplan for turns case, A-spec
2nr: A-spec, primacy d/a


Round 4 vs. Heritage Hall:
1nc: A-spec, nuke K
Block: A-spec, Nuke K
2nr: A-spec (extra-t), Nuke K

Round 5 vs. Dulles HK:
1nc: Plan-flaw, Cap, cap root cause on case
Block: Cap & case
2nr: Uniqueness on cap + turns on framework



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]