[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
====1AC: Afghanistan==== 

=====Plan===== 
The United States Federal Government should substantially reduce its military presence in Afghanistan by removing its COIN forces.


=====Contention One – Saigon 1975===== 
The 2011 deadline will not hold – the military is looking to stay indefinitely
All Headline News, 9/21/2010 (Top western military in afghanistan say no withdrawal by july 2011, p. http://www.allheadlinenews.com/articles/7019975433)
The top commander in the...That's how I read it.”

The current Afghanistan strategy will fail. Karzai’s government lacks credibility and training missions have been a disaster
Galbraith, 5/17/2010 (Peter – former UN Secretary General’s Deputy Special Representative for Afghanistan, The Economist, p. http://www.economist.com/debate/days/view/516)
The war in Afghanistan is...troops now committed to the war.

Isolationist sentiment is growing – a prolonged engagement of Afghanistan will result in an isolationist inward turn
Lindsay, 12/3/2009 (James - Senior Vice President, Direct of Studies, and Maurice R. Greenberg Chair, Isolationist Ripples Among Americans, Council on Foreign Relations, p. http://www.cfr.org/publication/20882/isolationist_ripples_among_americans.html)
The Afghanistan debate will play...intense pressure to reverse course.

The Afghanistan war is massively unpopular – there is mounting pressure to withdraw. The costs are staggering
Frost, 9/9/2010 (Patrick - head writer of Great Power Politics, writer for Foreign Policy Association’s Central Asian blog, Afghanistan war, Great Power Politics, p. http://greatpowerpolitics.com/?p=2426)
The latest Afghanistan and Iraq...and police. Ka-ching, ka-ching, Ka…….

An isolationist withdrawal from Afghanistan will cause instability – this will give rise to a Pashtun separatist movement that destabilizes the region. The result will be nuclear war
Morgan, 2007 (Steven John - former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, Better another taliban afghanistan, than a taliban nuclear pakistan, p. http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639)
This would leave the Allied...Russia pitted against the US.

Afghan collapse destabilizes Central Asia
Akbulut, 2007 (Isil, International Strategic Research Organization, “If Afghanistan Collapses?”, Afghan Profile, 7-19, http://afghanprofile.net/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=163&Itemid=27)
If the situation in the...spread all over the world.

Central Asian conflict escalates to global nuclear war
Tsepkalo 1998 (Valery V., Belarussian Ambassador to the U.S., Foreign Affairs, March/April, Lexis)
But abetting the continuing destabilization...control over weapons of mass destruction.

The current strategy is a recipe for disaster. It is too costly, drains the public well of goodwill and sparks an isolationist public. Without a transition to a limited counter-terrorism force, a full and quick withdrawal is inevitable
Simon and Stevenson, October-November 2009 (Steven – adjunct senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, and Jonathan – professor of strategic studies at the US Naval War College, Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?, Survival, Vol. 51, No. 5)
Finally, within the operational environment...Afghanistan - over the next few years.


=====Contention Two – Terror===== 
Despite some gains, experts believe we’re losing the war on terror
Foreign Policy, September/October, 2008, The Terrorism Index, p. http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=4431
For the first time since...the war on terror continues.

The U.S. is losing the battle for the hearts and minds in the war on terror
BBC News, 9/29/2008, Al-Qaeda Not Weakening, p. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/7638566.stm
Our correspondent says there is...between 8 July and 12 September.

This Means WMD terrorism
Terrorists have the means
Matthew Bunn, Associate Professor of Public Policy at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, November 2008, Securing the Bomb 2008, p. v
Terrorists are still seeking nuclear...they are effectively secured.

Terrorists can deliver WMDs
Graham Allison, Professor of Government and Former Director of the Belfer Center, Harvard University, and Andrei Kokoshin, Member of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences and Member of the Board of Directors, NTI, Fall 2002 (“The New Containment” – the National Interest) p. lexis
As Robert Walpole, a National...to smuggle in a nuclear bomb."

Terrorists have the motive
Matthew Bunn, Associate Professor of Public Policy at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, November 2008, Securing the Bomb 2008, p. 4-5
Do terrorists want nuclear weapons?...years of the 21st century.”10

Most recent reports show that the U.S. would target Pakistan after an attack
Steve Watson, 12/5/2008, Propaganda Recycled: US Report Blames Pakistan for Future WMD Attack, p. http://www.infowars.net/articles/december2008/051208Propaganda.htm
In a blatant effort to...the name of the war on terror.

Global nuclear war
Daniel R. McBride, Montreal-Based Writer, “From the Torching of the Louvain to Bomber Harris”, Moderate Observer, 8-1-2007, http://moderate.wordpress.com/2007/08/01/lessons-from-bomber-harris-if-the-us-strikes-pakistan/
One can imagine Musharraf is...and even India, within hours.

Even a conventional attack causes retaliation
Daniel Byman, director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies at Georgetown’s School of Foreign Service, September 2007, US Counter-Terrorism Options, Survival, Vol. 49, Is. 3, p. informaworld
One of the biggest problems...be necessary to prevent overreaction.

Recruitment overwhelms technical barriers to nuclear terrorism
Bob Graham, chairman of the Commission on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism, and Jim Talent, vice-chairman of the Commission on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism, December 2008, World at Risk, Garham Allison, Robin Cleveland, Steve Rademaker, Tim Roemer, Wendy Sherman, Henry Sokolski, Rich Verma, p. 20
At the moment, al Qaeda...knowledge of nuclear weapons designs.

The current presence reinforces the perception of a foreign occupier – this result in terrorist recruitment
Afghanistan Study Group, 2010 (A new way forward, p. 6)
Third, the current U.S. military...generate even more local resentment.


=====Contention Three – Solvency===== 
Scaling down and limiting the Afghanistan deployment prevents the radicalization of Pashtuns and hinders Taliban recruitment
Afghanistan Study Group, 2010 (A new way forward, p. 7)
2. Scale Back and Eventually Suspend...our large and intrusive military presence

A shift to counter-terrorism is the only way to create a sustainable strategy
Long, Spring 2010 (Austin – assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, Small is beautiful, Orbis, Vol. 54, Iss. 2, p. 213-214)
As policymakers have sought to...is the best alternative for the United States.56


=====Contention Four – Isolationism + Iran===== 
The rising costs of Afghanistan trade off with ability to negotiate with Iran
Afghanistan Study Group, 2010 (A new way forward, p. 6)
Finally, the rising costs of...states in the region - like Iran .

And Iranian proliferation causes nuclear war
Henry Sokolsky, executive director – nonproliferation policy education center, 10/1/2003, Policy Review, p. lexis
If nothing is done to...be spring-loaded to go nuclear.

A Saigon-style withdrawal from Afghanistan will collapse the US/Japan alliance, derail Iranian nuclear diplomacy, and crush global climate change
Stokes, 12/10/2009 (Brian - international economic solemnest for the National Journal, US opinion turns against the globalism of its president, Yale Global, p. http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/us-opinion-turns-against-globalism-their-president)
In addition, more than...of anti-American sentiment.

Climate leadership is critical to solve warming – prevents extinction
Ban Ki-Moon, Secretary General of the United Nations, 10-25-2009. NY Times, “We Can Do It,” http://www.nytimes.com/2009/10/26/opinion/26iht-edban.html
Every day, the critical December...Kerry and Graham: “Yes, we can.”


=Negative= 
=====T - Combat Troops===== 
A. Definition - Presence requires regular, non-combat activities – forces engaged in combat aren’t part of U.S. presence
Thomason, 2 – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf
Our working definition of US ... contingency should call for them.

B. Violation – the aff ends combat missions, not presence missions.

C. Standards
1. Limits – allowing combat missions allows affs to change specific strategies in Afghanistan or Iraq, like ending cluster bombing without actually reducing forces themselves, which explodes the literature base
2. Negative ground – presence missions are about deterrence and reassurance – including combat missions avoids core negative disads

D. Topicality is a voter for Fairness and Education


=====T - Weapons===== 
A. Interpretation – Military presence is the stationing of troops within a country
Harmon, 3 – US Army Major (William, “The Korean Question: Is There a Future for Forward-Based American Forces in a Unified Korea?,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA415880&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)
In American security writings...engagement and visibility of the forces.

B. Violation – The affirmative only reduces weapons, not troops.

C. Standards
1. Limits – weapon system underlimit the topic by allowing cases that deal with any one of a hundred different types of weapon system. Our interpretation fairly limits cases to reducing troop levels.
2. Predictability - Allowing the multiple permutations of different weapon systems dilutes the topic and puts the negative at a unique advantage.

D. Topicality is a voter for fairness and education.


=====Consult NATO CP===== 
TEXT:
THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WILL ENGAGE PRIOR BINDING CONSULTATION WITH THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION DEFENSE PLANNING COMMITTEE OVER [THE PLAN]. THE UNITED STATES WILL ADVOCATE [THE PLAN] DURING THE CONSULTATIVE PROCESS AND WILL ADOPT THE RESULT OF THE CONSULTATION. WE’LL CLARIFY.

OBSERVATION ONE: IT COMPETES: THE 1AC CAN’T DO BINDING CONSULTATION, THAT WOULD BE ABUSIVE
(A) VIOLATES “RESOLVED” ...
(B) MAKES THE PLAN CONDITIONAL ...

OBSERVATION TWO: SOLVENCY
THE PROCESS OF CONSULTATION CAUSES ALLIED SUPPORT FOR US POLICY
CAMPBELL, SENIOR VP, CSIS, AND WARD, FELLOW, INTERNATIONAL SECURITY, CSIS, 2003 (KURT, CELESTE, FOREIGN AFFAIRS, SEP/OCT)
Given the sensitivity of the issues…impatience or unconcern with "old Europe."

OBSERVATION THREE: THE NET BENEFIT
CONSULTATION IS KEY TO THE VIABILITY OF THE ALLIANCE – THE IMPACT IS WMD TERRORISM AND NUCLEAR WAR IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ABSHIRE, FORMER AMBASSADOR TO NATO, PRESIDENT, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF THE PRESIDENCY, AND CROSS, SPECIAL ASSISTANT, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF THE PRESIDENCY, 2004 (DAVID, S. WESLEY, GEORGETOWN JOURNAL OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS, SUMMER/FALL)
Myths that are undermining the foundation...term and effective over the short term.


=====SKFTA DA===== 
A. The South Korean Free Trade Agreement will pass – Obama is pushing
AgWired, 1/9/2011 (Korea free trade optimism, p. http://agwired.com/2011/01/09/korean-free-trade-optimism/)
Korea’s ambassador to the United States...will be finished by the end of June.

B. Plan is drains capital – massively unpopular

C. PC key to SKFTA
Wall Street Journal, 12/6/2010 (A Korea-U.S. Trade Deal, At Last The Korea pact is a step forward, but now the President has to sell it. Printed in The Wall Street Journal, page A18)
These caveats should not deter...of American businesses and workers.

D. Ratifying SKFTA is critical to cement the US/South Korean alliance and heg.
Stangarone, 11/4/2010 (Troy - director of Congressional Affairs and Trade for the Korea Economic Institute, On the sidelines of the g-20, Asia Pacific Bulletin, No. 79, p. 1-2)
The pending free trade agreement...understanding on the KORUS FTA.

E. Key to prevent North Korean aggression
Pritchard et al, 2009 – President of the Korea Economic Institute (Charles L, 6/16. With John H. Tilelli Jr., Chairman and CEO, Cypress International, and Scott A. Snyder, Adjunct Senior Fellow for Korea Studies, CFR. “A New Chapter for U.S.-South Korea Alliance.” Council on Foreign Relations. http://www.cfr.org/publication/19635/new_chapter_for_ussouth_korea_alliance.html)
While all eyes have been trained...to put pressure on North Korea.

F. Global nuclear war
Hayes and Green, 2010 - *Victoria University AND **Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute (Peter and Michael, “-“The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 1/5, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)
The consequences of failing to...consideration from the international community.


=====Allied Assurance DA===== 
A. US extended deterrent is credible now – in-country and physical presence is key
Russell, PhD Candidate in War Studies, 10
James, Co-Dir. @ Center for Contemporary Conflict at Naval Postgraduate School, Former Advisor to the Sec. Def. on Persian Gulf strategy, PhD Candidate in War Studies – King’s College U. London, “Extended Deterrence, Security Guarantees and Nuclear Weapons: U.S. Strategic and Policy Conundrums in the Gulf”, 1-5, http://www.analyst-network.com/article.php?art_id=3297
The Gulf Security dialogue is but...backed by nuclear weapons in the region.

B. Perceived decrease in US deterrent credibility causes fast allied proliferation in multiple hotspots – no risk of a turn from rogue proliferation
Campbell, PhD and Einhorn, Senior Advisor @ CSIS, 4
Kurt Campbell, PhD, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder of the Center for a New American Security and Robert Einhorn, senior adviser in the CSIS International Security Program, 2004, The Nuclear Tipping Point, pg. 321
Given the unprecedented power and influence...weapons states through NATO and the EU.)

C. Proliferation risks extinction – any benefit doesn’t justify nuclear unpredictability
Krieger, PhD in Political Science, 9
David, JD, Pres. Nuclear Age Peace Foundation and Councilor – World Future Council, “Still Loving the Bomb After All These Years”, 9-4, https://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/09/04_krieger_newsweek_response.php?krieger
Jonathan Tepperman’s article in the September 7...successors are more rational than Mr. Tepperman?


=====U.S.-India Relations DA===== 
A. U.S.-India relations are high now - many signs of cooperation
Karl F. Inderfurth, professor at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, October 28th, 2010 (“Obama’s opportunity”, The Indian Express, http://www.indianexpress.com/news/obamas-opportunity/703642/0)
The last decade witnessed a remarkable…and efforts to combat HIV-AIDS.

B. Withdrawal from Afghanistan undermines U.S - India relations
Robert D. Kaplan, August, 2010 (Senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “South Asia’s Geography of Conflict”, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf)
He or she who sits in Delhi...States deserts Afghanistan, it deserts India.

C. Impact. U.S-Indian relations solve terrorism, middle east instability, proliferation, protectionism, Indo-Pak conflict, and the economy. This turns their case.
Ambassador David C. Mulford, September 15th, 2004 (“U.S.-India Relations: The Making of a Comprehensive Relationship”, http://newdelhi.usembassy.gov/ambsept152004.html)
First, let me set the stage by...for U.S.-India cooperation are endless.


=====Positive Peace K===== 
The 1AC’s representations of managing violence from crisis to crisis recreates cycles of negative peace and management that perpetuates violence. A focus on positive peace is crucial to end militarism and create structural change
Ha Poong Kim 87 hilosophy Department, Eastern Illinois University, USA Bulletin of Peace Proposals, Vol. 18, No. 1, 1987
Peace denotes a nonwarring condition...humanity is fully capable of.

Ignoring the structural causes of war and viewing each flash point in isolation creates crisis management politics that perpetually creates structural violence through peace time militarism
Chris Cuomo. Ph.D., 1992, University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Philosophy University of Cincinnati Hypatia Fall 1996.Vol.11, Iss. 4; pg. 30
In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," Robin…inevitability of war and militarism.

And Structural violence is a linear impact that kills millions every year – evaluate our impacts first
By Mumia Abu-Jamal Column Written 9/19/98 http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm
It has often been observed…violence passes away with them.

Thus the alternative: Vote negative - Rejecting the aff’s representations creates a shift towards pacific discourse that involves social reform and positive peace.
William C Gay. Ph.D. in Philosophy from Boston College, Prof. UNC, Peace Review, Dec 1998.Vol.10, Iss. 4; pg. 545-8
Many times the first step in...linguistic violence and social injustice.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]