[[toc]]
===Aff: [[mailto:ppjp88@gmail.com|ppjp88@gmail.com]] Neg: [[mailto:andaprime@gmail.com|andaprime@gmail.com]]=== 
=Affirmative= 
==1ac-Wake== 

**CONTENTION 1: THE WORLD OF WARCRAFT**

**The Global War On Terror was based on and justified by the theory of “Just War.” However, this logic has legitimized violence in the Middle East and allowed for the absolute destruction of perceived enemies.**
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Anthony </span>__Burke__<span style="font-weight: normal;">, Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales, </span>__2004__. <span style="font-weight: normal;">[―Just War or Ethical Peace: Moral Discourses on War After 9/11,‖ International Affairs, 80 (2), 329-353] </span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; color: black; font-size: 11.5pt;">American anger in the wake of September 11 </span>____<span style="color: black; font-size: 11.5pt;">……….</span>____<span style="color: black;">with their complete and permanent destruction.</span>____<span style="color: black;">‘27</span>__
==== ==== 

**The fear of a clash between the east and west supported the justification for the invasion of Afghanistan post 9/11. By portraying the middle east as a savage, inferior society, feelings of the need to save and police the other were stirred up in the American people.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Dana L.</span> __Cloud__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">in</span> ‘__04__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Associate Professor of Communication Studies at the University of Texas, 2004, To Veil the Threat of Terror: Afghan Women and the Clash of Civilizations in the Imagery of the US war on terrorism, Quarterly Journal of Speech Vol. 90, No. 3, August 2004, pp. 285-306) </span>
__The phrase ―clash of civilizations__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">………</span> __were primary among makers of foreign policy.__

**<span class="Heading3FoldoverCharChar">Obama’s is using backdoor methods to ensure our military presence continues</span>. <span style="font-variant: small-caps;">Presence from</span> <span class="Heading3FoldoverCharChar">Iraq is gradually decreasing while maintaining exploitative, colonial control over the region’s politics, military and economy.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Michael </span>**__<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">Schwartz</span>__** <span style="font-size: 9pt; font-variant: small-caps;">professor of sociology at Stony Brook State University, author of </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; font-variant: small-caps;">[[http://www.amazon.com/dp/193185954X/ref=nosim/?tag=tomdispatch-20|War Without End: The Iraq War in Context]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-variant: small-caps;"> 7/9/</span>**__<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">09</span>__** <span style="font-size: 9pt; font-variant: small-caps;">[“Colonizing Iraq: The Obama Doctorine?”, TomDispatch.com, http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175093/michael_schwartz_twenty_first_century_colonialism_in_iraq)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Here’s how reporters Steven Lee Myers ………….</span>__all significant government decision-making.__

**CONTENTION 2: MODERN WARFARE**

**The inadequacy of just war theory is made evident in operation enduring freedom, where incidents of violence against civilians are tolerated on the basis that they are “unintentional.” This justifies thousands of avoidable deaths and endangers the population that American warmongerers claim to be saving.**
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Anthony </span>__Burke__<span style="font-weight: normal;">, Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales,</span> __2004__<span style="font-weight: normal;">. [―Just War or Ethical Peace: Moral Discourses on War After 9/11,‖ International Affairs, 80 (2), 329-353]</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; color: black;">The distinction between intentional and unintentional killing </span>____<span style="color: black;">………..to constrain war rather than liberate it.</span>__

**This violence stems from an ontological distinction between the self and the other that justifies the worst forms of biopolitical violence. Warfare and genocide both stem from imbalanced power relations between the east and the west—further reinforced by the War on Terror**
Meghana V. __Nayak,__ Pace University, __and__ Christopher __Malone,__ Pace University, __09__ [American Orientalism and American Exceptionalism: A Critical Rethinking of US Hegemony
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Edward Said (1979)...</span>__shatters the …….both within the United States and "elsewhere."__


**The US has used this distinction to screw Iraq, major. In the Gulf War they bombed troops, water plants and power stations. The CIA itself murdered over 100 civilians in Baghdad to incite a coup. 600,000 children have died from malnutrition and disease. Every day we stay in Iraq, its supporting power relations remain intact.**
<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Anthony </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Burke</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-variant: small-caps;">, Senior Lecturer at School of Politics & IR @ Univ. of New South Wales, 200</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">5</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-variant: small-caps;"> (“Iraq: Strategy’s Burnt Offering,” Global Change, Peace & Security, Volume 17, Number 2, June 2005, P. 191 -213//DN)//</span>
//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">When Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990, ….. </span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">their suffering was a resource</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>//

==== ==== 

**Modern Warfare is not only physical, but biopolitical. The distinction between the self and the other calls for the drive to stabilize and secure the populations of states. This creates structures of securitization at the local level.**

<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">Mark</span> __<span style="color: black;">Duffield</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">Professor of Development, Democratization and Conflict at the University of Leeds, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">20</span>__<span style="color: black;">05</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">(</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">BA(Sheff), PhD(Birm) ―Getting savages to fight barbarians: development, security and the colonialPresent,‖ Conflict, Security & Development,Volume 5, Issue 2 August 2005 , pages 141 - 159</span>DN)
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; color: black;">The claim that development </span>____<span style="color: black;">……the voluntary principle</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> (Cooper 2002: 17-18).</span>
=== === 
**This intimate regulation of life in order to manage the population is the precondition to the mass violence of the last century of Western politics—biopolitics is what makes genocide, world wars, and nuclear destruction possible**
__Foucault__<span style="font-weight: normal;">, Chair in the History of Systems of Thought, College de France, </span>__1976__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> [Michel, //The History of Sexuality, Volume I: An Introduction//, p. 135-140]\</span>
Since the classical age the West has<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> …………</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> large-scale phenomena of the population.</span>__
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
**We should use the experiences of Afghanistan and Iraq as an opportunity to question just war theory and its stranglehold on the political imagination. Its ontological premise normalizes war as an ever present part of the human condition, destroying the possibility for peaceful international relations and ensuring continued bloodshed. Legitimizing violence writes off those affected as mere collateral damage, and frees all war planners of responsibility.**
<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">Anthony</span> __Burke__,<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;"> Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales,</span> __2004__. <span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">[―Just War or Ethical Peace: Moral Discourses on War After 9/11,‖ International Affairs, 80 (2), 329-353]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">In such a context, </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; color: black;">the just war </span>____<span style="color: black;">……</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;"> policy of the United States‘.56 </span>
==== ==== 


**Thus we are resolved: That the United States federal government completely withdraws its military and police presence from Afghanistan and Iraq.**
=== === 
=== === 
**CONTENTION 3: THE GEARS OF WAR**

**We must demand the complete, immediate and unconditional withdraw from Afghanistan And Iraq. Arguments in favor of a better, continued US presence of any kind only strengthen it and preclude change.**
Mike __Ely__, founder Kasama Project, Demand Complete and Immediate Withdrawal from Afghanistan, __2002__. http://revolutionaryfrontlines.wordpress.com/2010/03/29/demand-complete-and-immediate-withdrawal-from-aghanistan/
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">I think what is posed in Medea Benjamin‘s ……..</span>__<span style="color: black;">,‖ needs to be explored and engaged.</span>__

**Conceive this demand as a challenge against the empire. Our protest of the experiences in Afghanistan and Iraq can spark broader public debate about US imperialism across the globe. Identifying and connecting instances of military violence to underlying ideologies is critical to contesting concepts of security based on war.**
Steve __Sherman__, sociologist and independent intellectual, ―The Empire of Bases and the American Anti-War Movement,‖ March10th, __2010__ http://dissidentvoice.org/2010/03/the-empire-of-bases-and-the-american-anti-war-movement/
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; color: black;">The anti-war movement in the US </span>____<span style="color: black;">……</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;"> of this broader platform of transformation.</span>

**Finally, the colonial securitization of the war on terror and its underlying justification in just war constructs all populations as bare life, vulnerable to murderous violence if circumstances demand it – the affirmative‘s challenge to these imperial ideologies is critical to open space to combat this logic.**
Derek __Gregory__, Distinguished University Scholar And Professor Of Political and Cultural Geography At The University Of British Columbia In Vancouver, __2004__ [The Colonial Present: Afghanistan, Palestine, Iraq, pp. 261-262]
<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">Dibdin is clearly saying that ……</span>__<span style="color: black;">by those dreadful events.</span>__

=__1ac-Cal__= 



The United States Federal Government should remove the United States’ ground presence from Afghanistan. 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>
Advantage one is sustainable Hegemony:

U.S. policy in the Middle East has failed—Reduction of our military role is key to offshore balancing 
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne 9</span></span> (Christopher, Ph.D in Political Science from U of California at Berkeley, //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Review of International Studies</span>//, 35, p. 12-13)JM
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">The US has reached …<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">differences with Iran</span></span>.</span>

<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Heg is declining now:</span>

The “global dominance” strategy of the Bush administration failed and threatened the U.S.’s international position
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">John J. </span><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">MEARSHEIMER 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> (R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Pol. Sci. at U Chicago</span>; “Imperial by Design”, //The National Interest//, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/issue/jan-feb-2011|JAN-FEB 2011]]</span> issue; December 16, 2010; [[http://nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=10]])

By pursuing this … <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">position in the world.</span></span>

<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Two internal links, first is Overstretch:</span>

Interventionism makes overstretch more likely—changing grand strategy solves
Layne 10 <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Christopher; Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Bush_School_of_Government_and_Public_Service|George Bush School of Government and Public Service]]</span> at <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_A%26M_University|Texas A&M University]]</span>; “Graceful Decline: The End of Pax Americana.” The American Conservative—May 2010 Issue; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://amconmag.com/article/2010/may/01/00030/]]</span>)</span></span> <span class="body1"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">These assumptions invest …</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">we see the world</span></span><span class="body1"><span style="color: black; font-size: 11.5pt;">.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11.5pt;">  </span>

Overstretch means we can’t check threats—offshore balancing solves
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">John J. </span><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">MEARSHEIMER 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> (R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Pol. Sci. at U Chicago</span>; “Imperial by Design”, //The National Interest//, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/issue/jan-feb-2011|JAN-FEB 2011]]</span> issue; December 16, 2010; [[http://nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=10]])

Of course, America …<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">truly serious threats.</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in; mso-outline-level: 1;"> </span>
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Overstretch directly causes heg decline </span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne 06</span></span> Associate Professor at the Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A&M University [Christopher “The Peace of Illusions” (p. 152-153)]<span class="HeaderChar2Char"> </span>

There is another road …<span class="HeaderChar2Char">__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11pt;"> they can chew. </span>__</span>

<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Second is Counter-hegemonic balancing:</span>

<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Interventionism in Eurasia causes great powers to balance against the U.S. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne 6 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Christopher, Associate Professor of Bush School of Government and Public Service @ Texas A&M U, 2006, “The Unipolar Illusion Revisted: The Coming of the United States’Unipolar Moment”, International Security 31.2, 7-41, Project Muse)</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-align: justify;">Precisely <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">because unipolarity …East Asia, and the Persian Gulf</span></span>. 57 </span>

<span style="margin-left: .25in; mso-outline-level: 1;"> </span>
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">U.S. grand strategy in the Middle East causes counter-hegemonic balancing</span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne, 7</span></span> <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">–Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, (Christopher, "The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415952034, p. 54-55) </span></span>

The American Empire …__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> presence is resented</span>__.

Counter-hegemonic balancing leads to inevitable heg collapse and nuclear great power wars—only offshore balancing solves
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">LAYNE 6</span></span> <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M) 2006 [Christopher, The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to Present, Cornell University Press (Ithica), p. 190-192 //wfi-tjc]</span></span></span>

Advocates of hegemony … __of American diplomacy__. 


<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Now the impacts:</span>

Offshore balancing retains hegemonic flexibility and solves genocide 
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walt 5</span></span> (Stephen, prof of international relations @ Harvard U, February/March, [http://bostonreview.net/BR30.1/walt.php] AD: 7/8/10)JM
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The final option is </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">…</span></span> its core interests. </span>


Offshore balancing solves all major threats
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">John J. </span><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">MEARSHEIMER 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> (R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Pol. Sci. at U Chicago</span>; “Imperial by Design”, //The National Interest//, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/issue/jan-feb-2011|JAN-FEB 2011]]</span> issue; December 16, 2010; [[http://nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=10]])
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Offshore balancing costs </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">… </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">threat from China</span></span>.


No turn—Even if we have to re-intervene, it wouldn’t a prolonged presence
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">John J. </span><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">MEARSHEIMER 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> (R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Pol. Sci. at U Chicago</span>; “Imperial by Design”, //The National Interest//, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/issue/jan-feb-2011|JAN-FEB 2011]]</span> issue; December 16, 2010; [[http://nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=10]])

Offshore balancing, which …<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> hegemon is checked.</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span>


<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Advantage two is the Middle East:</span>

<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Three internal links:</span>

<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Ground presence in Afghanistan is failing and fuels the Taliban—offshore strategy solves</span>
AFP 10 <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(“Overstretched West needs new Afghan strategy: IISS”; AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE, SEPTEMBER 8, 2010; </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.defencetalk.com/overstretched-west-needs-new-afghan-strategy-iiss-28607/]]<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"> ) </span></span></span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span>
<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">London</span></span><span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">: Western powers … Afghanistan, it added. </span></span>

<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Offshore balancing solves resentment and blowback, the root causes of terrorism</span>
<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">John J.</span></span> MEARSHEIMER 8 <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Pol. Sci. at U Chicago; “Middle East: Know the Limits of U.S. Power”; Newsweek, November 29, 2008; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.newsweek.com/2008/11/28/middle-east-know-the-limits-of-u-s-power.print.html]]</span>) </span></span>

Remember that Washington …<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> stationed on Arab soil.</span></span>

Specifically, Interventionist Heg in the Middle-East is the root cause of Middle-Eastern terrorism
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne 06</span></span> Associate Professor at the Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A&M University (Christopher “The Peace of Illusions” (p. 190-191)<span class="HeaderChar2Char"> </span>
<span class="HeaderChar2Char"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="HeaderChar2Char">__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11pt;">The events of 9/11 … for Muslim anger </span>__</span>

<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Now the impacts: </span>

The Taliban and Al Qaeda in Afghanistan can destabilize Pakistan, causing nuclear great power wars and nuclear terrorism
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pitt 9</span></span><span class="apple-converted-space"> </span><span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[William Rivers, “Unstable Pakistan threatens the world”, 8/5/9, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183&page_order=1&act=print]]</span>, William Rivers Pitt is a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence."]</span></span><span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="apple-converted-space"><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> </span></span>
<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>The situation in brief…<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> with unimaginable disaster. </span></span>

<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Nuclear Terrorism Causes Extinction</span>
Sid-Ahmed, <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">political analyst</span></span><span style="color: black;"> 04</span> <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">(Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, “Extinction!” August 26-September 1, Issue no. 705, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm) </span></span>

__What would be … will all be losers__.

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
Advantage 3 is Iran:<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;"><span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;"> </span>
</span>
U.S. is failing to stop Iranian nuclearization now—they want to use nuclear power to become the regional hegemon and our presence is the root cause
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Takeyh 6</span></span> <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(“The Rising might of the Middle East super power”; Ray, PhD; Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, September 11, 2006)</span></span>
<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As the cycle of …</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> offers of inducements.  </span></span>
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;"> </span>
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;"> </span>
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Iranian influence in the region rising now </span>
<span class="cardChar">[[http://nationalinterest.org/profile/paul-r-pillar|Paul R.]]</span> <span class="tagChar">[[http://nationalinterest.org/profile/paul-r-pillar|Pillar]]</span> <span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">January 31</span></span>, 2011<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(“The Freedom Agenda Revisited”, The National Interest, January 31, 2011; Paul R. Pillar is director of graduate studies at Georgetown University's Security Studies Program and a former national intelligence officer for the Near East and South Asia.; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/blog/paul-pillar/the-freedom-agenda-revisited-4808]]</span>)</span></span>  

<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Given</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the neoconservative …</span></span> than more democracy.

<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;"> </span>
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Specifically in Afghanistan</span>
Alfoneh and Majidyar 10 <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Mr. Alfoneh has been a research fellow at the Institute for Strategy at the Royal Danish Defence College and has taught political economy at the Centre for Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Southern Denmark.;</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Mr. Majidyar worked as a media analyst with BBC Monitoring in Kabul, and was a Presidential Fellow at the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service;</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">AEI OUTLOOK SERIES Iranian Influence in Afghanistan Imam Khomeini Relief Committee By <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/scholar/137|Ali Alfoneh]]</span>, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/scholar/100079|Ahmad K. Majidyar]]</span> | <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[@http://www.aei.org/outlooksBinder?page=1&bid=100013|AEI Online]]</span> (July 2010); </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.aei.org/outlook/100976]]) </span>

Operation Enduring Freedom…<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">anti-American sentiment.  </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span></span>
The only existential threat to the U.S. is the rise of a Eurasian hegemon—we control the round
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Layne 7</span></span> (<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">Christopher;</span></span> Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Bush_School_of_Government_and_Public_Service|George Bush School of Government and Public Service]]</span></span></span> at <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_A%26M_University|Texas A&M University]]</span></span></span>. “<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.worldpolicy.org/blog/who-lost-iraq-and-why-it-matters-case-offshore-balancing|Who Lost Iraq and Why It Matters: The Case for Offshore Balancing]]</span></span></span>.” Fall 2007. [[http://www.worldpolicy.org/blog/who-lost-iraq-and-why-it-matters-case-offshore-balancing]])<span style="color: #263c16; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 16.5pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Even as the George …<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> troops into Eurasia</span></span>. </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span></span>
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;"> </span>
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Iran can and is developing nuclear capabilities now</span>
CFR 10 <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(“Iran's Nuclear Program”, Author: Greg Bruno; Updated: March 10, 2010: </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/16811/irans_nuclear_program.html]])<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">  </span></span></span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">David Albright, an … the right size." </span></span>
<span class="underline"> </span>
Ground presence withdrawal solves Offshore balancing which is the only possible way to solve the regional tensions that cause Iran prolif
<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">John J.</span></span> MEARSHEIMER 8 <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Pol. Sci. at U Chicago; “Middle East: Know the Limits of U.S. Power”; Newsweek, November 29, 2008; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.newsweek.com/2008/11/28/middle-east-know-the-limits-of-u-s-power.print.html]]</span>) </span></span>

Third, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">offshore balancing … as we can get</span></span>. 

<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;"> </span>
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Iran Prolif changes it’s internal calculation, risking regional aggression and nuclear war</span>
<span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharChar1"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Kurtz 6</span></span> (Stanley, adjunct fellow @ the Hudson Institute and Hoover Institution; August 28, pg. http://article.nationalreview.com/?q=OWU4MDMwNmU5MTI5NGYzN2FmODg5NmYyMWQ4YjM3OTU=)

Rosen points out…<span class="Highlightedunderline"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; border-width: initial;"> into nuclear confrontations</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; border-width: initial;">.</span></span>


Middle East instability causes global nuclear war.
John <span class="CharChar7"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Steinbach</span></span>, nuclear specialist, Secretary of the Hiroshima-Nagasaki Peace Committee of the National Capitol Area, <span class="CharChar7"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">2002</span></span>, Centre for Research on Globalisation, “Israeli Weapons of Mass Destruction: a Threat to Peace,” http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html

Meanwhile, __the existence … a world conflagration.”__ (44)

<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;"> </span>
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Offshore balancing solves best for regional stability and great power war post-ground presence withdrawal </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Christopher <span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Layne</span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;">, </span></span>Associate Professor of International Studies at the University of Miami, <span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2002</span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;">, </span></span>“Offshore Balancing Revisited.” http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/washington_quarterly/v025/25.2layne.html</span>

__The events of September 11 …the new great powers__.<span class="HeaderChar2Char"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">Finally we come to Solvency:</span>

Ground presence is not necessary for deterrence in the Middle East—Long range offshore balancing solves threats
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Layne 7</span></span> (<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">Christopher;</span></span> Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Bush_School_of_Government_and_Public_Service|George Bush School of Government and Public Service]]</span></span></span> at <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_A%26M_University|Texas A&M University]]</span></span></span>. “<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.worldpolicy.org/blog/who-lost-iraq-and-why-it-matters-case-offshore-balancing|Who Lost Iraq and Why It Matters: The Case for Offshore Balancing]]</span></span></span>.” Fall 2007. [[http://www.worldpolicy.org/blog/who-lost-iraq-and-why-it-matters-case-offshore-balancing]])</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 13.2pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; mso-line-height-alt: 10.65pt;"><span class="underline">The primary U.S. … to the U<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">nited </span>S<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">tates</span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span></span></span>
Ground presence does not solve terrorism and is actually the root cause of it—offshore balancing solves best
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Layne 7</span></span> (<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">Christopher;</span></span> Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Bush_School_of_Government_and_Public_Service|George Bush School of Government and Public Service]]</span></span></span> at <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_A%26M_University|Texas A&M University]]</span></span></span>. “<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.worldpolicy.org/blog/who-lost-iraq-and-why-it-matters-case-offshore-balancing|Who Lost Iraq and Why It Matters: The Case for Offshore Balancing]]</span></span></span>.” Fall 2007. [[http://www.worldpolicy.org/blog/who-lost-iraq-and-why-it-matters-case-offshore-balancing]])<span class="underline"><span style="color: #263c16; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 16.5pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> </span></span></span>

Contrary to the administration…<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to the U<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">tates</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. </span></span></span>

The current strategy of maintained ground presence in Afghanistan is self-defeating and actually spurs terrorist action. Withdrawing that presence and switching to Offshore balancing with air and naval power solves the harms of the current system
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pape 9</span></span> [Robert Pape, 10/22/09, Professor of Political Science, University of Chicago, “House Armed Services Subcommittee on the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities Hearing; Counterterrorism within the Afghanistan Counterinsurgency”, Federal Information and News Dispatch, Inc., LexisNexis]
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">General <span class="DebateUnderline">McChrystal's recommendation … forward in Afghanistan. </span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span></span>

No turns—withdrawal from Iraq is on track now, despite recent attacks
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">AFP January 20 </span></span>(“Iraq troop withdrawal on schedule despite attacks: US”; (AFP) – Jan 20, 2011; [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5g2L21xfxReox-3daFUpmaOz7kRpw?docId=CNG.368dd86b8036db4006b87e3438898d63.661]])</span>
WASHINGTON — <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U</span></span>nited <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">… our timeline</span></span>," he said.


The navy is flexible enough for and capable of executing an offshore balancing strategy in the Middle East
Adm. Gary <span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roughead</span></span>, Chief of Naval Operations <span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span></span> <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(quoted in “Part II: Revisioning Navy strategy”, from Honolulu Star Advertiser, Jan 09, 2011; Roughead is a <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Navy|United States Navy]]</span> <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Admiral_(United_States)|admiral]]</span> who is serving as the 29th and current <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chief_of_Naval_Operations|Chief of Naval Operations]]</span>. He previously served as Commander, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Fleet_Forces_Command|U.S. Fleet Forces Command]]</span>, from May 17, 2007, to September 29, 2007. Prior to that he served as the 31st Commander, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Pacific_Fleet|U.S. Pacific Fleet]]</span>; </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[[http://www.staradvertiser.com/editorials/20110109_Part_II_Revisioning_Navy_strategy.html]]</span><span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">"I use the term</span> <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">… after the earthquake. </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span></span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span>



=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]