[[toc]]
=Misc. Info= 
==﻿Tournament Attending== 
Varsity Division

James M. Langan Invitational- 11/13-14
Record- 2-4

Ohio Valley Invitational- 12/4-12/6
Record- 2-4
==Contact== 
﻿any questions- email [[mailto:pritenshah13@gmail.com|pritenshah13@gmail.com]]
==﻿Speaker Postitions== 
1A- Priten Shah
﻿2A- Brenda Doan
1N- Brenda Doan
2N- Priten Shah
=Affirmative= 
==﻿1AC== 
===Scranton- 1AC=== 
[[media type="scribd" key="43382748" ARG0="key-1nb3tfucl9r3ynywuswo" height="600" width="800"]]
===Ohio Valley- 1AC=== 
==Add-On== 

===<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">__Pakistan Nuclear Deal Add-On__</span>=== 
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">[[#_GoBack]]**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">COIN continuation will force US to cut nuclear deal with Pakistan to get their assistance – causes India Pakistan arms race and nuclear world war III. Withdrawal key to solve.</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mull 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Journalist for the Brave New Foundation and The Seminal Citizen 6/21/2010 </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">(“Crazy COIN Strategy: US-Pakistani Nuclear Deal” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/josh-mull/crazy-coin-strategy-us-pa_b_620210.html) </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">But I nearly spit out coffee this morning reading through the new RAND report - "Counterinsurgency in Pakistan" by Seth G. Jones and C. Christine Fair. Of course</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, it's <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">COIN</span>, so I was prepared for most of the usual junk ("population-centric" bloody occupations, learn from Algeria or the Philippines or [insert incomparable favorite country from a bajillion years ago], etc). This <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">report </span>even <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">had </span>a lot of good stuff going for it, including a very honest assessment of Pakistan's domestic unrest issues (disappearances, land ownership, foreign tariffs, etc) as well as <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">thoughtful examinations of </span>the history of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">US-Pakistan diplomatic "persuasion" techniques</span>. And then it got crazy fast:</span>__ __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The U</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">nited <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">S</span>tates <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">should consider</span></span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">more </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">politically valuable initiative</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">s</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">given the willingness</span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">and equities </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">of other regional parties. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">While an effective U.S. role in reaching an Indo-Pakistani accommodation on Kashmir is unlikely, partly because of Indian opposition, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">there are</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> at least </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">two</span>__ __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">initiatives that could benefit Pakistan</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. First is <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a</span></span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">criteria-based</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">civilian nuclear deal for Pakistan</span>. Pakistan complained about the exceptionalism of the Indo-U.S. nuclear deal, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">in which India agreed to separate its civil and military nuclear facilities and place its civil nuclear facilities under International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards. In exchange, the United States agreed to work toward full civil nuclear cooperation with India</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. Pakistani officials argued that its sacrifices in cooperating with the United States should merit comparable consideration. Pakistan legitimately fears that the agreement may allow India to improve and expand its nuclear weapon arsenal.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Pakistan sought to undermine the Indo-U.S. deal, arguing that it would spark an arms race on the subcontinent. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That's right, in <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">exchange for "doing more" against the militant </span>elements <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">in the region, the US should give Pakistan more nukes. The report is very honest </span>about it: It'll be just like the deal with India, in which <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the US </span>basically <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">subsidizes the </span>civilian <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">nuclear industry</span>,</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> and "inspects" it, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">while the military program remains completely </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">separate and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">unaccountable</span>. Better yet, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the military no longer has to compete with the civilian </span>power <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">industry for materials</span>, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">so they're free to weaponize </span>countless stockpiles of enriched <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">uranium </span>that we specifically agree to not inspect.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> That's happening in India right now. And this report says we should do that with Pakistan. For real. This is where I look around, wondering if that sounds as crazy to you as it does to me, because apparently the folks at RAND find nuclear proliferation to be totally normal. Now before we go any further, I should offer a bit of a disclaimer. I'm not one of those liberal hawkish types who wants to scare the bejesus out of you with talk of loose nukes and blowing up American cities. If you want to worry about national security, you're better off figuring out how to fix, say, California's collapsing social programs before you figure out how to stop some Endtimer colonel in the Pakistani Army from going all Rogue Spear on you. And yes, just like anyone else, I think al-Qa'eda blowing up EMPs over New York City is super-duper scary, but so is Jurassic Park and the Terminator, they just don't need to be at the very top of our national security priorities. But there's a difference between making nuclear non-proliferation a reasonable priority, you know, maybe creating jobs at home before signing a treaty with Russia, and flat-out causing proliferation to happen on purpose, in Pakistan of all places. The Indo-US nuclear deal was a terrible idea by itself, for among other things unilaterally negating the IAEA's global non-proliferation regime (India is not a Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty signatory), requiring no limits on the amount of nuclear material produced (power takes a little, weapons take a lot), and completely looking the other way from India's now limitless nuclear weapons program. It is the opposite of nuclear non-proliferation. But here's why it's especially crazy with Pakistan. It would do all of that above, in Pakistan where military control over the nuclear arsenal is often questioned, but it would do it with specific "safeguards", like this: In exchange for fundamental recognition of its nuclear status and civilian assistance, Pakistan would have to meet two criteria: It would have to provide the kind of access and cooperation on nuclear suppliers' networks identified in the Kerry-Lugar-Berman legislation. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pakistan would also have to demonstrate sustained and verifiable commitment in combating all terrorist groups on its soil. Such a civilian nuclear deal could achieve the goals that Kerry-Lugar-Berman could not because it would offer Pakistan benefits that it actually values and that only the United States can meaningfully confer.[...] It is possible that even this deal may not provide Pakistan adequate incentives to eliminate terror groups or provide access to such individuals as A. Q. Khan.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> It's possible they won't even get rid of militants, or give up their criminals who sell nuclear secrets to terrorist groups and rogue countries, but </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">we should still totally legitimize and help to expand their nuclear weapons arsenal. Um...what? Again, the report was totally honest. Pakistan complained the India deal would "spark an arms race on the subcontinent." Well, now <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">we have an arms race on the subcontinent, and this report says we should help the other side</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. Ostensibly it's to fight militants, maybe get our hands on AQ Khan, but maybe not, we're open. This is what we're actually, seriously discussing for our Afghanistan strategy. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This would dramatically escalate the </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">already raging nuclear <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">arms race between India and Pakistan</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. At the most awful, worst-case scenario, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">we're looking at a nuclear exchange </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">between two massive countries<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, killing </span>tens if not <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">hundreds of millions of people </span>and likely <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">drawing in China, Russia, the U</span>nited <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">S</span>tates and god knows who else. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Nuclear World War III. For</span>, you know, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">counterinsurgency</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. What the hell happened to this? We got attacked on 9/11 by al-Qa'eda, so now we have to clear Taliban strongholds and stand up the Afghan government because terrorists are a huge threat to the United States. That's straight from President Obama himself. The non-sequiturs in his answer are bad enough, but now we're considering expanding that to include flooding the terror-inflamed Asian subcontinent with unaccountable nuclear weapons and enabling the worst militarist psychoses in Pakistan and India's leadership. Put bluntly, it's putting forward all-out nuclear war as a safeguard against future 9/11 attacks. Not for-sure nuclear war, mind you, just betting it all and rolling the dice on nuclear war. See why this is crazy? This is what COIN has come to, what our trillion dollar occupation has come to. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Our </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">longest <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">war is now so utterly hopeless that we have nothing left but considering a nuclear war in Asia as a viable counter-terrorism policy</span>. Yes, it's really that bad. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">It has to end now, before these ideas get any further </span>than a think tank report</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. As if the eye-popping death toll of American troops, the seemingly endless suicides when they return, and the dizzying cost of the war weren't enough, you can now add "gambling on nuclear proliferation" as one of the many, many reasons why the war in Afghanistan has to end. </span></span>

==By Tournament== 
===James M. Langan Invitational=== 
Round: 2
Against: Stuyvestant Kl
1NC- Coin Reform, Localism K, Defense Spending DA, South Korea Free Trade Agreement DA
2NR- Defense Spending DA
Outcome- Loss

Round: 4
Against: Cenntenial KP
-----Forfeit------

Round: 6
Against: Truman AC
1NC- Case
2NR- Case
Outcome- Win

===Ohio Valley Invitational=== 
=Negative= 
==By Tournament== 
===James M. Langan Invitational=== 
Round: 1
Against: Truman TS
1NC- Israel DA, Start DA, TNW Shift, Debt Commission CP, Case
2NR- Israel DA and TNW Shift
Outcome- Win

Round: 3
Against: [[2010-2011 — Wilde Lake (MD) — Nada Elrafei & Dayva Frank|Wilde Lake FE]]
1NC- Military Dichotomy K, Land-mines PIC
2NR- Land-mines PIC
Outcome- Loss

Round: 5
Against: SK Prostitution Aff
1NC- Start DA, Reverse Spending DA, Case
2NR- Start DA, Reverse Spending DA, Util
Outcome- Loss

===Ohio Valley Invitational=== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]