[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">= justice
c= reducing arbitrary mistreatment
Contention One: Nukes limit agency of third world nations.
Martin 84 (</span><span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modelling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, and a member of SANA, SANA UPDATE, MARCH)
“The effects of global...without the west”</span>
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">Prepared February 15, 2001, by Kevin Kamps, Nuclear Waste Specialist, Nuclear Information Resource Service, 1424 16th Street, NW, Suite 404, Washington, D.C., 20036. </span><span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">
“The dominant discourse...recognized nuclear powers”
Contention Two: Nukes arbitrarily treat minorities. </span>
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">**David Robinson** </span><span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">executive director of Pax Christi USA, and a featured speaker at Many Stories, One Vision for a Nuclear-Free World, a national conference and action from August 4-7, 2005
“Nuclear weapons could not...parts of the world”
Racism causes violence/conflict/bad impacts</span>
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">Joe Feagin </span><span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">Feagin, professor of sociology and liberal arts Texas A&M, 2006 (Joe, “Systemic Racism” pg 321-2)
“Dr. Martin Luther...innovations and inventions.”
Contention Three: Nukes lead to patriarchy
Betty Reardon (</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">Director of the Peace Education Program at Teacher’s College Columbia University, 1993, Women and Peace: Feminist Visions of Global Security, p. 30-2 (PDNSS6401))</span>
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">“Since a major...violent world”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">Mary E. Clark (2004) </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">//Professor of biological studies, Source: Women & Language,Title: Rhetoric,// </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #ff0000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">//**Patriarchy**//</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;"> //& War: Explaining the Dangers of "Leadership" in Mass Culture, RS
“The language of...real possibility”
Clark 2:
“Today’s western...their ready use of force”
Men are seen as soft and wimpy if they don’t act within this mindset.// </span><span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">Barbara Hope</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">
//“Why weren’t we...nothing but violence”
1) Disarmament is one step towards helping women
2) Disarmament ensures that there will be ration decisions made that don’t worry about the masculinity of the aciton
Cohn and Ruddick
“Nuclear development may...so is deterrence.”
Inequality leads to violence. Judith Butler:
“Internationally, extreme inequality...short term conflict”//</span>








==Negative== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">//v= justice
c= decreasing harm
Contention One: If disarm, conventional conflicts will be costly.
Conventional confliclts will occur more than nuclear conflicts.
Ottens, Nick.// </span><span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">"Why we Still Need Nuclear Weapons" The Atlantic Sentinel. February 25, 2010.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">//“”There are some very serious....more dangerous place”
Conventional weapons are more dangerous than nukes//</span>
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">**Preston (2007)** </span><span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">[Thomas, Associate Prof. IR at Washington State U., Faculty Research Associate, Moynihan Institute of Global Affairs, “From Lambs to Lions: Future Security relationships in a World of Biological and Nuclear Weapons”, p. 31-2]
“The actual costs...World War II”
Waltz. Kenneth, Prof. Emeritus of Pol. Sci – UC Berkeley, “Interview: Is Kenneth Waltz Still M.A.D. about Nukes?” Winter/Spring, http://www.ciaonet.org/olj/gjia/gjia_winspr00f.html, SM
“It is conventional...deterrence has worked”
Contention Two: If disarm, chem/bio weapons will be costly.
Terrorists and rogue states can acquire. </span>
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Comic Sans MS; font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">David Gompert. </span><span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 11pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">A Nuclear Arsenal Is Needed to Counter a Biological Weapons Threat. David C. Gompert. At Issue: Biological and Chemical Weapons. Ed. David M. Haugen. San Diego: Greenhaven Press, 2001.] PhD @ Rice U.
“Rogue states...biological weapons”
Chem/Bio weapons cause more harm than nukes. </span>
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">Sergey Rumyantsev writes (2006): </span><span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">Page 3, “Biological Weapon: A Terrible Reality? Profound Delusion? Skillful Swindling?” 2006. MD PHD DSC Microbiology Epidemiology.
“Bioweapons can rival...weapons ever devised”
Terrence Taylor. Crimes of War project (public awareness of laws of conflict), (2003)
“Biological weapons...with biological weapons”

Net benefits
I should be allowed to bring up disadvantages to implementation regardless of whether or not implemenation is defended.
1) Nuclear knowledge cannot be erased. </span>
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Comic Sans MS; font-size: 11pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">Feithm former security deputy under bush and Shulsky senior at the Hudson Institute and director of strategic arms control policy at the DoD, 2010, (The Dangerous Illusion of 'Nuclear Zero', May 21, ProQuest, June 23, LB)
“The administration recognized...during the cold war.”
2) Disarmament leads to nuclear war
George Dvorsky. On the Board of Directors for the IEET.March 31, 2009. “</span><span style="background-color: transparent; color: #990033; font-family: Comic Sans MS; font-size: 11pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">The perils of nuclear disarmament: How relinquishment could result in disaster.
“During disarmament...blackmail or attack”
3) Disarmament increases terorism (will steal materials)
Bobby Webster
“While nuclear weapons...such a missile.” </span>




=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]