[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">PMC's Aff</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Contention One is Inherency</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The prevalence of Private Military Contractors is on the rise – Obama will do nothing to stop it.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> __**Lendman 1-20**__ (http://dissidentvoice.org/2010/01/outsourcing-war-the-rise-of-private-military-contractors-pmcs/, January 20th 2010) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In 2002, under Army Secretary Thomas White, the military planned to increase its long-term reliance on contracted workers, ……civilians and soldiers for them. </span>




**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The wars in Afghanistan and Iraq rely on PMCs – recent trends increase the security role of contractors</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Schwartz 10**__ (Moshe, Specialist in Defense Acquisition, Congressional Research Service, 1–19–10, “The Department of Defense’s Use of Private Security Contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan: Background, Analysis, and Options for Congress”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi–bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA513870)KFC </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States relies on contractors to provide ……would be unable to execute its mission without PSCs </span>





**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Contention Two is Privatized War. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Outsourcing of intelligence outsources the ability to construct threats – private contractors determine policymaking through selective discourses of security</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Leander 05**__ (Anna Leander, Assoc. Prof. of Poli. Sci. and Public Management – U. of Southern Denmark, ‘5, Millennium 33.3, “The Power to Construct International Security”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Most PMCs do not provide direct military combat services but ‘non- essential’ consultancy and logistics service ……indeed, given the standard operating procedures, it mobilises – the decisions to be taken. </span>




**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Private companies construct unrealistic apocalyptic scenarios to enhance private management and quash politics under the guise of security</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**O****__’Re__illy & Ellison 06**__ (Conor O’Reilly and Graham Ellison, Instittue of Criminology @ Queen’s University Belfast School of Law, ‘6 [British Journal of Criminology 46, “Eye Spy Private High: Re-Conceptualizing High Policing Theory,” p. 654-6]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Private high policing embodies the dominant trend within late capitalist states …..and the corporate veil to be cynically knitted into the blanket shield of national security. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Private framing of security is not neutral – rather, it is crafted for the sake of profit at all costs </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Boemcken 07**__ (Marc von Boemcken, senior researcher at the Bonn International Center for Conversion, Private Military and Security Companies. Chances, Problems, Pitfalls and Prospects, ed by Thomas Jäger and Gerhard Kümmel, February ‘7, “Liaisons Dangereuses: The Cooperation between Private Security Companies and Humanitarian Aid Agencies” p 268-9)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> It has been suggested that the notion of 'security' is not an ontologically fixed condition independent of …. by favoring a protective-deterrence approach and thus neglecting alternative strategies of security management not covered by the specific range of PSC products. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> PMC’s drive for profit results in global neo-imperialist war, internal conflict, and mass genocide</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Renou 05**__ (Xavier , Prof. @ Université Patheon-Assas, ‘5 [Oxford Development Studies 33.1, “Private Military Compaies Against Development,” 108-110]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Globalization is a process of deepening of world markets through the internationalization, interdependence and concentration of international capital……. of torture and ethnic cleansing as strategies of war (in 1996 Zaire, in 1991 Croatia), etc. </span>




**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Privatization has remilitarized security – designation of experts legitimizes militarized modes of security production while shielding so-called experts from public accountability</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Leander 05**__ (Anna Leander, Assoc. Prof. of Poli. Sci. and Public Management – U. of Southern Denmark, ‘5, Millennium 33.3, “The Power to Construct International Security”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> So far, this article has expanded the concept of power mainly on the agent level ……… Alamos National Laboratory (the nuclear weapons lab) has been privatised.60In the UK the ‘Defence Evaluation and Research Agency’ (DERA) has been privatised to 75 percent61 </span>




**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Accountability is exchanged for capital – this profit driven security forms an incentive for conflict, ensuring global war</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Nederveen Pieterse 04**__ (Jan Nederveen Pieterse, Prof. of Sociology @ Univ. of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, ‘4 [Theory, Culture & Society 21.3, “Neoliberal Empire,” p. 124-5]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The politics of privatization is that dismantling government means dismantling accountability;………– just as prisons in the US have been privatized and turned into a ‘prison-industrial complex’ (Dyer, 1999). Thus neoliberal empire extends profitable domestic practices overseas. </span>





**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Contention 3 is Non-Combatants </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The use of contractors blurs the distinctions between soldiers and civilians.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Isenberg 9**__ (U.S. Navy veteran David Isenberg is a researcher at the International Peace Research Institute, Jan 23, 2009, http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Dogs_of_War_Slippery_slope_999.html) KM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Like Dunlap, he is critical of the increasing military involvement in domestic operations…….., military law may no longer apply, which would mean commanders will no longer be involved in even the most serious disciplinary issues affecting their troops. And then George Washington's famous quote, "Discipline is the soul of an army," may become just a historical memory. </span>





**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> This means we don’t care about the lives of contractors because they are not ‘honorable soldiers’. As a result, the state views all of our lives as inconsequential.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> __**Taussig-Rubbo 9**__ (Lexis, Outsourcing Sacrifice: The Labor of Private [[#ORIGHIT_1]][[#HIT_1]]Military Contractors, Mateo Taussig-Rubbo, Winter, 2009)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rather than foregrounding the legal liability of private [[#ORIGHIT_21]][[#HIT_21]]military contractors and their employers, this Article has ……Perhaps, then, we see the United States attempting to become a sovereign in Agamben's sense, attempting to shed this layer of liability. </span>






**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The state viewing people as disposable populations turns the world order into a machine of horror and destruction.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> __**Santos 3**__ (http://bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html, Boaventura de Sousa Santos, Issue #63, April 2003)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">According to Franz Hinkelammert, the West has repeatedly been under the illusion that it should try to save humanity by destroying part of it. ………In today's version, the period of primitive accumulation consists of combining neoliberal economic globalization with the globalization of war. The machine of democracy and liberty turns into a machine of horror and destruction. </span>




**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> When the state views us as disposable, it justifies atrocities like the Holocaust – we are nothing more than objects to be killed.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Dillon 99**__,( Michael Dillon, Professor, University of Lancaster, 1999, “Another Justice,” Political Theory 27(2), JSTOR) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Otherness is born(e) within the self as an integral part of itself and in such a way that it always remains an inherent stranger to itself." It derives from the lack, absence, or ………we must never forget that, "we are dealing always with whatever exceeds measure. But how does that necessity present itself? Another Justice answers: as the surplus of the duty to answer to the claim of Justice over rights. That duty, as with the advent of another Justice, is integral to the lack constitutive of the human way of being. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> A loss of value to life precedes all other impacts – death is preferable to a valueless life</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> __**Mitchell 5**__ [Andrew J. Mitchell, Post-Doctoral Fellow in the Humanities at Stanford University, "Heidegger and Terrorism," Research in Phenomenology, Volume 35, Number 1, 2005 , pp. 171-217]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Devastation (Verwistung) is the process by which the world becomes a desert………. (Wfiste agrees, "being would be in the ground of its essence malevolent" (GA 77: 215). Being is not evil; it is something much worse; being is</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Thus the plan: The United States federal government should terminate its contracts with all private military contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan.</span>**



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Contention Three is Solvency.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The 1AC catalyzes a national public demand for accountability and reduced use</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Beck 92**__ (Ulrich Beck, Professor for Sociology at the University of Munich, British Journal of Sociology Professor at the London School of Economics and Sciences, ’92 (“Risk Society: Towards a New Modernity”, p. 76-77)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Where modernization risks have been 'recognized' – and there is a lot involved in that, not just knowledge, ………Where danger becomes normalcy, it assumes permanent institutional form. In that respect, modernization risks prepare the field for a partial redistribution of power – partially retaining the old formal responsibilities, partially expressly altering them.</span>




**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Attempts at regulation inevitably fail because of lobbying and conflicting interests – terminating contracts is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Leander 05**__ (Anna Leander, Assoc. Prof. of Poli. Sci. and Public Management – U. of Southern Denmark, ‘5, Millennium 33.3, “The Power to Construct International Security”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> For one, PMCs are not mere arms of government policy, but also private and corporate; they ……even if ‘power’ is reduced to mean the formal capacity to decide over the use force.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Must terminate contracts – no regulatory measures can make private corporations comparably accountable to national armed forces </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Schreier 05**__ (Fred , consultant with the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces and Marina Caparini is Senior Fellow at the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces, ‘5 (“Privatising Security: Law, Practice and Governance of Private Military and Security Companies,” http://www.dcaf.ch/_docs/op06_privatising-security.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contractors are not only complicating traditional norms of military command and control, they are challenging the basic norms of accountability ……debate by contracting private military and security companies is likely to have long-term political costs. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The government has to limit the function of PMCs </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Kidwell 5**__ (Deborah, September 13, , [[http://www.cgsc.edu/carl/download/csipubs/kidwell.pdf]], date accessed: 6/26/2010) AJK</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Although the previous discussion is somewhat speculative, it raises important questions for further study……... conduct limited war as inexpensively as possible, and that PMCs could serve certain political objectives. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 4 is The International Realm </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Our interpretation is that the international realm does not function under a realist framework.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Realism fails- assumes the international system is anarchaic and that individual security is the same as national security</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Bilgin 02**__ (Pinar BILGIN, International Relations Professor @ Bilikent (Ankara) ‘2 “Beyond Statism in Security Studies? Human Agency and Security in the Middle East” Review of International Affairs 2 (1), p. 103 - 104</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> On the more conservative end of this critical spectrum was Bury Buzan who argued that ‘………..at the domestic arena (i.e.. the central govermmcnt) is what renders the latter anarchical.</span>




**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Policies that abandon anarchy discourse can create new international order </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__**Dryzek 06**__( John S., Political Science and Australian Research Council Federation Fellow “Deliberate Global Politics: Discourse and Democracy in a Divided World”) p. 121</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> In light of the constraints I have detailed, the capacity to act reflexively proves to vary in important ways across different kinds of actors in the international system. …….dominant actors to consolidate power by acting more intelligently in relation to the global constellation of discourse, so that their constructive effects become a matter of design.</span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]