[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

**PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD WITHDRAW ALL TROOPS AND CLOSE ALL BASES IN THE OKINAWA PREFECTURE OF JAPAN.**

**Contention 1 is enter the war zone**

**Continued U.S.-Japan military presence has pushed the Okinawa people to statelessness. Japanese deference has allowed U.S. militaries to take control of Okinawa’s social and political institutions and destroy the environment.**
**Mantle, 06**—Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), 2006 (Deborah Mantle, “Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, p. 96-101)
Gavan McCormack describes Okinawa as ‘… the future (Tanji, 2003: 171). In the formal political realm – the courts, … gains little from its profits.


**And, this is part of a colonial military strategy. After colonizing Okinawa, Japan has treated the area as property to be traded to achieve their security interest. Defaulting to the status quo’s realist politics ensures the sacrifice of Okinawa people in the name of Japanese security.**
**Tanji, 07**—Research Fellow with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Australia, Asia and the Pacific at Curtin University of Technology (Australia), holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Murdoch University and is the author of Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa and several other publications, (Miyume Tanji, “Futenma Air Base As A Hostage Of Us-Japan Alliance: Power, Interests And Identity Politics Surrounding Military Bases In Okinawa,” Asia Research Centre Working Paper No. 147, November, http://wwwarc.murdoch.edu.au/wp/wp147.pdf)
The reason for deployment of … Tanji 2007; Yoshikawa 2007). In any case, issues are typically discussed … version, has provided important assistance.

**And the willingness to sacrifice the lives of their own population in the name of greater security interest forwards biopolitical control and makes war and bare life inevitable.**
**Giroux, 6** - Professor at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department
(Henry A., Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability, College Literature 33.3, Project Muse)
While biopolitics in Foucault and … of military and state power.

**Contention 2 is Patriarchy**
**U.S. military presence in Okinawa promotes a domineering culture where exotic constructions of Japanese women justify their sacrifice for rape and prostitution.**
**Kirk & Feffer 8** – Kirk: policy and research analyst with the Global Fund for Women and a Foreign Policy In Focus columnist; Feffer: Writing Fellow at Provisions Library in Washington, DC, PanTech fellow in Korean Studies at Stanford University, associate editor of World Policy Journal, worked as an international affairs representative in Eastern Europe and East Asia for the American Friends Service Committee, studied in England and Russia, lived in Poland and Japan, and traveled widely throughout Europe and Asia, taught a graduate level course on international conflict at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul in July 2001 and delivered lectures at a variety of academic institutions including New York University, Hofstra, Union College, Cornell University, and Sofia University, [Gwyn, March 14, "GENDER AND U.S. BASES IN ASIA PACIFIC", http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]
The power dynamics of militarism … of Local People’s Self-Determination

**And, this is structural. US military presence in Okinawa spurs the Japanese government to institutionalize the rape and prostitution of their own citizens.**
**Zimelis 09**— PhD in comparative politics from UIC, (Andris "Feminist Analysis of Nationalism in Japan, South Korea, and the Phillipines" Cooperation and Conflict)
Thus, many women volunteered to ‘… maintain good relations with the US.

**And, without removing bases, rape is inevitable because the military is immune from the law. No legal mechanism in the US-Japan security treaties protects women.**
**Kirk 05—** New Jersey Chair in Women’s Studies, PhD from University of London in Sociology (Gwyn,“Women at War” Berkeley Journal of Gender, Law & Justice)
Violence against women in military … is negotiation and maneuverability here.

**And, we’ll isolate two impacts.**
**First, gendered militarism and patriarchy in Okinawa justifies warfare.**
**Hope, et. Al, 91—** Farren, American Friends Service Committee; McCarthy, Center for Teaching Peace (Barbara Hope, Pat Farren, and Colman McCarthy “Patriarchy: A State of War,” http://salsa.net/peace/conv/8weekconv5-5.html)
Why weren't we prepared for … very base of patriarchal rule.

**Second, rape is a form of bio-politics.**
**Diken 5 –**Bulent, ” Becoming Abject: Rape as a Weapon of War”. Lancaster University, Department of Sociology. Body and Society. 2005
Organized rape has been an … colonial dominance and military victory.

**Contention 3 is Biodiversity**

**The replacement facility in Henoko continues the prioritization of military strategy over environmental protection. Futenma expansion will decimate ocean wild life.**
**The Center for Biological Diversity, 09**—a national, nonprofit conservation organization with more than 240,000 members and online activists dedicated to the protection of endangered species and wild places, et al., co-signed by representatives of conservation, animal protection, and peace and justice groups representing more than 10 million Americans (“RE: Proposed U.S. Military Air Base Expansion Near Henoko, Okinawa,” Letter To The Obama Administration, December 3rd, Available Online at http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/species/mammals/Okinawa_dugong/pdfs/dugongletter.pdf)
The island of Okinawa has … in 2010 and years to come.

**And, our failure to address environmental issues furthers the politics of disposability, making nuclear annihilation and genocide inevitable.**
**Bookchin, 87**— co-founder of the Institute of Social Ecology, (Murray, "An Appeal For Social and Psychological Sanity," The Modern Crisis, Published by Black Rose Books Ltd., ISBN 0920057624, p. 106-108)
Industrially and technologically, we are … reproduce a green and living world.

**US controls fate of Okinawa environment**
**Kunitoshi, 08**- (Sakurai Kunitoshi, member of the Okinawan Environmental Network and President of Okinawa University, 11/10/2008 The Asia-Pacific Journal: Japan Focus, <http://www.japanfocus.org/-Sakurai-Kunitoshi/2946>. AP)
The following text discusses the … of the following four points:

**Contention 4 is solvency.**

**The plan is a critical site to contest dominant security logic. Acknowledging the struggles of Okinawa challenges the status quo’s prioritization of security over human rights and opens up space for new IR discourse.**
**Tanji, 07**—Research Fellow with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Australia, Asia and the Pacific at Curtin University of Technology (Australia), holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Murdoch University and is the author of Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa and several other publications, (Miyume Tanji, “Futenma Air Base As A Hostage Of Us-Japan Alliance: Power, Interests And Identity Politics Surrounding Military Bases In Okinawa,” Asia Research Centre Working Paper No. 147, November, http://wwwarc.murdoch.edu.au/wp/wp147.pdf, p. 11-12)
As discussed in this paper, … brave and grown up either.


**And, my partner and I embrace the “geisha”- Focusing on Asian identity helps unmask the intersection of race class and gender.**
**Prasso, 2006**—Professor of International studies and Public Affairs at Columbia University, Professor of Critical Asian studies for 12 years.
(Sheridan, The Asian Mystique: Dragon Ladies, Geisha Girls, and Our Fantasies of the Erotic Orient.” Boston Globe.)

The failure of traditional feminisms … of self-determination and justice.

**And critique must begin at the level of policy- intervening at the policy stage exposes how existing policy making practices produce means of social exclusion . This is key to break down the masculinist international order.**
**Enloe 93** – Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley (Cynthia Enloe, “Bananas, Beaches and Bases” p. 16-18 MT)
It's true that in international … have scarcely begun to fathom.

**Identifying the everyday structural violence of the Okinawan people is key to challenging the status quo crisis-driven politics. That comes first.**
**Cuomo, 96**—Professor of Philosophy and Women’s Studies, Director of the Institute for Women’s Studies at the University of Georgia Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Wisconsin, Madison, has been awarded grants from the Rockefeller Foundation, the National Science Foundation, and the Charles Phelps Taft Center (Chris, “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” Hypatia, Vol. 11, No. 4, Women and Violence (Autumn, 1996), pp. 30-45 Published by: Blackwell Publishing, P. JSTOR//DN)
Theory that does not investigate … inevitability of war and militarism

**And, the plan is key. Public spheres like debate rounds are the key arenas to allow discourse about the effects of gendered violence. Only by breaking this silence can we find solutions.**
**Enloe, 04**— Professor of Women’s Studies at Clark University, Ph.D. December 1967 University of California-Berkeley, M.A. January 1963 University of California-Berkeley, B.A. cum laude, June 1960 Connecticut College at New London, (Cynthia, “The Curious Feminist,” UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA PRESS, 2004 by the Regents of the University of California, P.73-75 //DN)
Violence against women almost everywhere … such silencing can be challenged.

**U.S. military presence on Okinawa has no strategic value.**
**Network for Okinawa, 10**—a project of the Institute For Policy Studies, (“Network for Okinawa’s Statement on Current Situation with U.S. Base Relocation,” June 14th, Available Online at http://closethebase.org/2010/06/14/network-for-okinawas-statement-on-current-futenma-situation/)
The U.S. Marine Corps presence in … socially destructive buildup in Guam.

**And, we solve spill-over. The plan spurs a global movement against US basing and militarism.**
John **Feffer** 3-6-**10** the co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies “Okinawa and the new domino effect” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh02.html
Wherever the US military puts … the exit arrow is pointing.

**We must constantly interrupt the political with the ethical-exposing the other’s face in all available venues.**
**Jordaan**, prof Poli Sci at Stellenbosch, **2006**, we reject the gendered language
Eduard Jordaan, Professor of Political Science at Stellenbosch, 2006, “Responsibility, Indifference, and Global Poverty: A Levinasian Perspective”
In light of the above … the fact of his otherness.

**Our call to end state violence through policy is the best revolutionary act. Failing to draft solutions that intervene on behalf of the genocided justifies state violence and suffering.**
**Aronowicz**, prof Judaism Franklin and Marshall, **2006**
Annette Aronowicz, professor of Judaic studies at Franklin and Marshall College, Summer 2006, “Levinas and Politics” http://66.102.1.104/scholar?q=cache:5L5lnjhcUSgJ:scholar.google.com/+levinas%2Bholocaust%2Bpolitics&hl=en
What remains after so much … making the innocent suffer (Levinas 1990:

**Deontological principles of rights should be considered first – it’s the only way to guarantee freedom**
**Freeman 9**4 – Avalon Professor in the Humanities at the University of Pennsylvania, Ph.D. Harvard University, J.D. University of North Carolina (Samuel, “Utilitarianism, Deontology, and the Priority of Right,” Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 23, No. 4, Autumn, pp. 313-349, http://www.jstor.org/stable/2265463)
The priority of right asserts … right or the good (LCC, p. 40).


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]