[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> Stacked AC</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> Ought - moral obligation </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> V = Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> By questioning ethical obligations of governments it describes a state of affairs as opposed to a policy action. Thus aff need not defend a transition period of disamament.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> Aff not fiat = just making arguments why a world without nuclear weapons is the most moral state of affairs. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> C = Maximizing the protection of rights </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> 1) Morality presupposes equality of all people. This equality necessitates the maximization of rights protection.</span>


== == 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">2 Nagel, Thomas. “Personal Rights and Public Space.” Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 24, No. 2 (Spring, 1995). Via JSTOR: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2265389]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"It is true that... will ever arise for him" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">2) Basing foreign policies on the intent of actions is impossible </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">3 Murray 97 (Alastair, Professor of Politics at U. of Wales-Swansea, Reconstructing Realism, p. 110)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> "Weber emphasised that... par excellence is subject" </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> C1) Accidents </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> Current structure of nuclear weapons is extremely hazardous and has high probability of nuclear accidents </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> 4 Donahue, Sean[Co-Director of New Hampshire Peace Action]: “One sub could destroy a country” 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> "According to an article... prevent a missile accident" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> If one of the nuclear weapons to detonate it would lead to catastrophic explosions and have lasting impacts on the oceans. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> Donahue 2</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> "The potential for a... history of life on earth"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> Ocean's unique biodiversity key to our earth's atmosphere</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> 5 Webter, Peter: “Oceans in peril - overfishing and other problems”. [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1594/|__E: The Environmental Magazine__]], [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1594/is_n3_v5/|June, 199]]4</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> "The first living organisms... unique biological diversity" </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> Loss of ocean's biodiversity leads to extinction</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> 6 Diner, 1994 (Major David, JAG Corps, United States Army, Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, p. 170-173) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> "Like all animal life... edging closer to the abyss" </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> C2) Terrorism</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> Massive amount of nuclear weapons and minimal defense make nuclear terrorism an extremely pressing concern.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">George P. Schultz [Secretary of State from 1982-1989]: “A World Free of Nuclear Weapons” The Wall Street Journal. 2007.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"There are more than... nightmarish nuclear terrorism scenario" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">We must prevent terrorists from acquiring nuclear weapons because of the catastrophic impacts.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">8 Mohamed Sid-Ahmed [“Extinction!” Al- Ahram 26 August - 1 September 2004 Issue No. 705]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"A nuclear attack... we will all be losers"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">C3) Iran</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Iran is less than 3 years away from developing a nuclear arsenal - Israel will strike next July</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">9 Goldberg, Jeffrey “The Point of No Return”; The Atlantic. August 12, 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"I have been exploring.... still-besieged Jewish state" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Israel Iran conflict lead to massive war</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">10 Aslan, Reza and Avishai, Bernard: “Stop the War Talk” New York Times. September 2, 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"An Iranian bomb... destroying large warships" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Baudrillard AC </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Part 1: Framework</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Weapon - any instrument or device used in combat</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Ought - moral obligation</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">V = Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">C = Deconstructing the hyperreal</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Mellencamp, Patricia. “Seeing is Believing: Baudrillard and Blau.” Theatre Journal, Vol. 37, No. 2 (May, 1985), pp. 141-154. Via JSTOR.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"For Jean Baudrillard... dammed as not image" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">A world in which the hyperreal dominates makes morality impossible</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Mellencamp 2</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"The space of simulation ... nothing more than simulations"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Confronting the hyperrreal is the only recourse possessed by society to reject the dangerous hegemony of the US</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> Baudrillard, Jean. America, Trans. Chris Turner. Verso: London, 1995. P. 97</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"And this conviction.... all their dreams come true"</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Part 2: How we learned to love the bomb</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">The history of nuclear weapons is intrinsically tied with deterrence</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">James Wood Forsyth Jr., B. Chance Saltzman, and Gary Schaub Jr (PhD, currently serves as professor of national security studies, USAF School of Ad­vanced Air and Space Studies, Maxwell AFB, Alabama, chief, Strategic Plans and Policy Division, Headquarters Air Force, assistant professor in the Leadership and Strategy Department, Air War College, Maxwell AFB, Alabama.)Remembrance of Things Past The Enduring Value of Nuclear Weapons. Strategic Studies Quarterly Spring 2010. Google Scholar.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"Given the destruction... states that possess them"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Part 3 is taking the red pill</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Nuclear deterrence exemplifies the hyperreal</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Baudrillard 2</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"The apotheosis of simulation... that already has no value"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">With no chance of nuclear conflict occurring nuclear weapons are nothing more than a simulation</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Baudrillard 3</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"It is not the... around the world" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Nuclear weapons paralyze us from real action</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Baudrillard 4</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"What is hatched... circumscribed stakes remain"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Narrative AC </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Part 1: The Framework</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Morality and ethics are not based upon facts or truth but requires a non-cognitive persuasive factor</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">2 Zagzebski, Linda: “Emotional and Moral Judgment” Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, Vol. 66, No. 1 (Jan., 2003), pp. 104-124</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"It seems impossible.... her to make the judgement"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">The internal factor must be persuasive and motivating because that is the only way to encourage moral judgements. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Zagzebski 2/</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"Emotions are potentially... Humean desire account" </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">In order for Morality to truly serve as a guide for action it needs to capture emotion</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">3 De Sousa, Ronald: “Moral Emotions” Ethical Theory and Moral Practice, Vol. 4, No. 2, Cultivating Emotions (Jun., 2001),</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"I have argued... to provide the point of morality"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Part 2: The Paradigm</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Debate is an activity where we are encouraged to think like policy makers</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">L. Paul Strait (George Mason University) and Brett Wallace (George Washington University). “The Scope of Negative Fiat and the Logic of Decision Making.” WFU Debater’s Research Guide. 2007.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"The ability to make... all of our lives" </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Narratives possess a unique political value</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Patterson, Molly and Monroe, Kristen: “Narrative in Political Science” Annual Review Political Science. 1998</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"Narratives circulate in more... particularly ways that we do"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Using this vital knowledge narratives provide us with the information policy makers use on a daily basis</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">John E. McDonough, 2006, “Narrative Matters: the Power of the Personal Essay in Health Policy.” Chapter title: Using and Misusing Anecdote in Policy Making. Book edited by: Fitzhugh Mullan, Ellen Ficklen, Kyna Rubin. P. 10-11.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"Why is narrative... suspicion of statistical analysis"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Part 3: The Narrative</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Yamazaki, James: “Children of the Atomic Bomb” Duke University Press. 1994</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"I grabbed my... we were saved" </span>

Rule Util AC

Aff does not need to defend disarmament 

V = Morality

Morality is a guide for action it necessitates a moral theory that enables us to weigh competing moral claims. 

Richard Brandt: "Utilitarianism and Moral Rights." Canadian Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 14, No. 1 (March 1984), pp. 1-9

"Before turning to... (and in what circumstances)."

Rule utilitarianism is the most accurate method of evaluating ethics.

William Starr: "Codes of Ethics: Toward a Rule-Utilitarianism" Journal of Business Ethics. Vol 2, No 2 (May, 1983) pp. 99-106

"If it is agreed.... develop than act utilitarianism"

John Harsanyi: "Rule Utilitarianism and Decision Theory". Erkenntnis (1975), Vol 11. No 1 Social Ethics, Part 1 (May 1977) pp 25-53

"For example, in... very noble objectives" 

C = Rule Utilitarianism 

C1: Accidental detonation 

Ted Daley: "Apocalypse Never: Forging the Path to a Nuclear-Free World." 2010. Pg 52

"Screw ups happen.... becomes virtually inevitable"

Single nuclear explosion would lead to irreversible impacts

Albert Carnesdale: "Living with Nuclear Weapons" The Harvard Nuclear Study Group. 1983

"The consequences of using... it could take generations"

C2: Terrorists

Bunn and Wier: "Controlling Nuclear Warheads and Materials: An Update" Harvard University 2003."

"For at least... chain-link fence."

Mohamed Sid-Ahmed: "Extinction! Al-Ahram 26 August - 1 September 2004 Issue No 705"

"A nuclear attack... all be losers"

C3: Miscalculations

George Perkovich: "Nuclear Proliferation" Foreign Policy, No 112 (1998) 12-23

"However, it is the... threats to do so"

Carl Sagan: "The nuclear winter" 1983 

"Nuclear war is... species in jeopardy" 

==Negative== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">IndoPak DA</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> A) Uniqueness </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> Nuclear weapons crucial to stabilizing relations between India and Pakistan </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">1 Ganguly, Sumit. “Behind India’s Bomb: The Politics of Nuclear Deterrence.” Foreign Affairs, September/October 2001. http://www.foreignaffairs.com/print/57247</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"The emergent Indian... would-be attacker or blackmailer"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">B) Link </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Affirmative bans possession of nuclear weapons which prevents India and Pakistan from using arsenals to evade nuclear war. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">2 Raja, Brig-Asif. “Nuclear deterrence keeps our adversaries at bay.” Pakistan Think Tank, 22 Jun. 2009. http://www.pakistanthinktank.org/v2/categoryblog/173-nuclear-deterrence-keeps-our-adversaries-at-bay-</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"It is this fear.... leaders bordering madness" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">C) Impact </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Breakdown of peace process endangers global security </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">3 Williams, Trevor. “India-Pakistan War of Words Could Escalate.” Global Atlanta, 5 Feb. 2009. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">http://globalatlanta.com/article/17139/</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"Rumors of war... Dr. Ahmed said" </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> Pakistan's sovereignty would be in jeopardy as Taliban continues to claim territory on its own.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">4 Omaar, Rageh. “Rageh Omaar on why the West should fear the Taliban and al-Qaeda's hold on Pakistan.” The Telegraph, 19 Mar. 2009. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/pakistan/5011978/Rageh-Omaar-on-why-the-West-should-fear-the-Taliban-and-al-Qaedas-hold-on-Pakistan.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"What is happening... controlled by jihadists" </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Bio/Chem Overview</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">1) Conventional deterrence insufficient to deter biological and chemical weapon usage. Need nuclear deterrence.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">1 David Gompert, RAND VP, Kenneth Watman, RAND author, and Dean Wilkening, PhD, 1995, “U.S. Nuclear Declaratory Policy,” RAND, [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/2007/MR596.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"Relying on conventional threats... attacks against US interests" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">2) Chemical biological weapon usage is catastrophic</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">2 Victor A. Utgoff, October 1997, Nuclear Weapons and the Deterrence of Biological and Chemical Warfare, Occasional Paper No. 36, The Henry L. Stimson Center</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"For example in... 20 million civilians" </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> Gauthier NC </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> Ought - moral obligation </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Hans Morgenthau: “In Defense of the National Interest”. 1952</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> "To his mind... interests a higher harmony" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> V = Morality</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Gauthier, David P. Morals by Agreement. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"Morals by agreement... dimension in their affairs" </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">C = Contractarian view of mutual restraints</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Gauthier 2</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> "In particular, by an argument... from the sacrifices of others"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">C1) Relinquishing nuclear weapons is disadvantageous to the states. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">4 Perkovich, George. 2009. "Abolishing Nuclear Weapons"; International Institute for Strategic Studies. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"The goal and project... international laws and norms" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> C2) States always view disarmament as a means to benefit themselves. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Dhanapala, Jayantha: “Multilateralism and the future of the nuclear non proliferation regime” The Nonproliferation Review. 2001. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"In the nuclear realm... it could and should be."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Self Defense NC</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">V = Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">C = Respecting nation's right to security </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">1.) Michael Walzer: "Just and Unjust Wars." New York: Basic Books, 1977" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">"The rights in... in self-defense"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">C1) States ought to possess nuclear weapons </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">Jonathan Tepperman: "Why Obama should learn to love the bomb" Newsweek, 29 Aug 2009</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">"To understand why... basic math shifts" </span></span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Tepperman 2</span></span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">"The record since... do to avoid it" </span></span></span></span>

Iran DA

Uniqueness: Sanctions have been ineffective at preventing Iran's nuclear program 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span></span>
</span>
Ramzy Mardini: "Start thinking of containment with Iran" The Daily Star. September 13, 2010

"At the G-20... regained some momentum"

Link

Preventative strike on Iran's nuclear facility would result in war

DPA: "Ahmadinejad warns the US against military attack on Iran" Haaretz/ International Herald Tribune. October 5, 2010

"Iranian President Mahmoud... Iranian President warned"

Military strike against Iran lead to dirty bomb

Stewart Ain: "Israel to Iran: Time's up" The Jewish Week. October 5, 2010 

"An adviser to... in the world" 


Japan DA

Uniqueness: The US nuclear arsenal protecting Japan

Elaine Grossman: "Nations looking increasingly to US conventional forces for deterrence" August 17, 2010

"A number of... Japan,' he said"

B.) Link United States nuclear arsenal is the only thing currently deterring nuclear atacks

Avery Nikitin: "Japan's Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects and US Interests" February 19 2010

"Perhaps the single... nuclear capability"

C.) Impact 

Asian Arms Race

Avery Nikitin 2

"To many security... be deeply destabilizing" 

Intentional nuclear war

Stephen Cimbala: "Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century" July 2010

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]