[[toc]]


=Gander= 
==1NC== 

**International relations are deeply gendered—the aff’s discourse of security is based on a flawed epistemological understanding of the world that makes their methodology suspect**
**Tickner, IR prof, 1—**professor at the School of International Relations, USC. B.A. in History, U London. M.A. in IR, Yale. PhD in pol sci, Brandeis U (Ann, Gendering World Politics: Issues and Approaches in the Post-Cold War Era, 44-47 , AMiles)

44 New issues and new definitions of security have been accompanied by calls for new ways of understanding security. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Controversy about</span></span><span style="color: black;"> the meaning of </span><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">security has been part of a</span></span><span style="color: black;"> more fundamental debate over broader epistemological issues that,</span> on the critical side, has included questioning the state-centric foundations and assumptions of realism as well as challenging its positivist-rationalist methodologies. Many scholars on the critical side of these epistemological debates claim that these ontological and epistemological issues are highly interrelated. The beginning of the debate over the meaning of security and its expanding agenda, as well as over how to explain conflict and prescribe for its amelioration, was coincidental with the third debate in IR. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Scholars </span></span>on the critical side <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">began to question realism’s explanations for states</span></span>’ security <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">behavior based on economistic, rational-choice models or natural-science equilibrium models</span></span> associated with the balance of power. Many claimed that issues of culture and identity must be included in order to gain a fuller understanding of states’ security interests and policies. Poststructuralist scholars began to question the foundational myths of realist worldviews upon which realist explanations of conflict depend. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Claiming that theory cannot be divorced from </span></span>political <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">practice</span></span>, critics pointed to realism’s complicity in shaping policymakers’ understandings of and prescriptions for <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">U.S. security</span></span> behavior in the ColdWar world. Walt’s defense of the social-scientific foundations of security studies (mentioned earlier) and his dismissal of other approaches have drawn sharp criticism from critical-security scholars. The <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">ethnocentricism </span></span>of his review and his description of a field that appears closely allied with U.S. security interests <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">call into question</span></span> his <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">claim about the </span></span>field’s <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">ability to “rise above the political</span></span>” <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and raises the issue of <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">whose interest security is serving</span></span></span>. Edward Kolodziej has claimed that Walt’s philosophically restrictive notion of the social sciences confines the security scholar to testing propositions largely specified by <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">policymakers</span></span>; it is they who <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">decide what is real</span></span> and relevant.33 Kolodziej goes on to say that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Walt’s </span></span>definition of science <span class="Underline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">bars</span> </span>45 <span class="Underline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">any </span></span>possibility of an <span class="Underline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">ethical or moral discourse</span></span>; even the normative concerns of classical realists are deemphasized in order to put the realist perspective on scientific foundations. Challenging Walt’s view of the history of the field as a gradual evolution toward an objective, scientific discipline that ultimately yields a form of knowledge beyond time and history, Keith Krause and Michael Williams have claimed that Walt has created an epistemic hierarchy that allows conventional security studies to set itself up as the authoritative judge of alternative claims;34 this leads to a <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">dismissal of alternative epistemologies</span> in terms of their not being “scientific.” Critics claim that issues they consider important for understanding security cannot be raised within a positivist-rationalist epistemology or an ontology based on instrumentally rational actors in a state-centric world. In addition to constraining what can be said about security, a <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">realist</span></span>-rationalist <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">approach precludes </span></span>consideration of an ethical or <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">emancipatory politics</span></span>. For example, Krause and Williams contest realism’s claim that states and anarchy are essential and unproblematic facts of world politics. They suggest that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">this worldview is grounded in an understanding of human subjects as selfcontained</span></span>— <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">as instrumentally rational actors confronting an objective external reality</span></span>. This methodologically individualist premise renders questions about identity and interest formation as unimportant.35 These and other critics claim that issues of identity and interest demand more interpretive modes of analysis. For this reason, critical scholars see the necessity of shifting from a focus on abstract individualism to a stress on culture and identity and the roles of norms and ideas. Such criticisms are being voiced by scholars variously identified as constructivists, critical theorists, and postmodernists. While not all of them reject realism’s state-centric framework, all challenge its assumptions about states as unitary actors whose identities are unimportant for understanding their security behavior. Although certain of these scholars see an incommensurability between rationalist and interpretive epistemologies, others are attempting to bridge this gap by staying within realism’s state-centric worldview while questioning its rationalist epistemology. Ronald Jepperson, Alexander Wendt, and Peter Katzenstein have argued for what they call “sociological institutionalism”— a view that advocates an identity-based approach, but one that stays within the traditional security agenda, a focus on states, and explanatory social science. Where this approach differs from rationalism is in its investigation of how norms, institutions, and other cultural features of domestic and international environments affect states’ security interests and policies. Conversely, 46 when states enact a particular identity, they have a profound effect on the international system to which they belong.36 Alexander Wendt’s constructivist approach also attempts to bridge the constructivist/rationalist divide. His strategy for building this bridge is to argue against the neorealist claim that self-help is given by anarchic structures. If we live in a self-help world, it is due to process rather than structure; in other words, “anarchy is what states make of it.”37 Constructivist social theory believes that “people act toward objects, including other actors, on the basis of the meanings that the objects have for them.”38 People and states act differently toward those they perceive as friends and those they see as enemies. Therefore, we cannot understand states’ security interests and behavior without considering issues of identity placed within their social context. Claiming that realist ontology and its rationalist epistemology are interdependent, more radical versions of critical-security studies reject these bridging attempts. Their calls for broadening the security agenda are made within the context of both a rejection of rationalism and a search for emancipatory theories that can get beyond realism’s skepticism about progressive change and the possibility of an ethical international politics. Poststructuralists claim that when knowledge about security is constructed in terms of the binary metaphysics of Western culture, such as inside/outside, us/them, and community/anarchy, security can be understood only within the confines of domestic community whose identity is constructed in antithesis to external threat.39 This denies the possibility of talking about an international community or an amelioration of the security dilemma since it is only within the space of political community that questions about ethics can be raised. In other words, the binary distinctions of national-security discourse <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">limit what can be said </span>and how it can be discussed. Thus, critical-security studies is not only about broadening the agenda— because, as mentioned earlier, this is possible with a realist framework. According to Ken Booth, critical-security is fundamentally different from realism because its agenda derives from a radically different political theory and methodology that question both realism’s constrained view of the political and its commitment to positivism. Critical-security studies rejects conventional security theory’s definition of politics based on the centrality of the state and its sovereignty. Arguing that the state is often part of the problem of insecurity rather than the solution, Booth claims that we should <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">examine security from a bottom-up perspective that begins with individuals</span></span>; however, critical-security studies should not ignore the state or the military dimensions 47 of world politics: “What is being challenged is not the material manifestations of the world of traditional realism, but its moral and practical status, including its naturalization of historically created theories, its ideology of necessity and limited possibility, and its propagandist common sense about this being the best of all worlds.”40 When we treat individuals as the objects of security, we open up the possibility of talking about a transcendent human community with common global concerns and allow engagement with the broadest global threats.41 The theme of emancipation is one that runs through much of the criticalsecurity studies literature. Emancipatory critical security can be defined as freeing people as individuals and groups from the social, physical, economic, and political constraints that prevent them from carrying out what they would freely choose to do.42 A postrealist, postpositivist emancipatory notion of security offers the promise of maximizing the security and improving the lives of the whole of humankind: it is a security studies of inclusion rather than exclusion.43 Yet imagining security divested of its statist connotations is problematic; the institutions of state power are not withering away. As R. B. J. Walker has claimed, the state is a political category in a way that the world or humanity is not.44 The security of states dominates our understanding of what security can be because other forms of political community have been rendered unthinkable. Yet, as Walker goes on to say, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">given </span></span>the dangers of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">nuclear weapons</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">we are <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">no longer able to survive</span> in a world predicated on an extreme logic of state sovereignty</span></span>, nor one where war is an option for system change. Therefore, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">we must revise our understanding of the relationship between universality and particularity upon which a statist concept of security has been constructed.</span></span> Security must be analyzed in terms of how contemporary insecurities are being created and by a sensitivity to the way in which people are <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">responding to insecurities </span></span>by reworking their understanding of how their own predicament fits into broader structures of violence and oppression.45 Feminists—with their “bottom-up” approach to security, an ontology of social relations, and an emancipatory agenda—are beginning to undertake such reanalyses.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Masculine lenses make extinction inevitable and turn the case—vote negative to reject the affirmatives gendered lens—it’s the only way to open up new frameworks of thought </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Clark 4</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">—French Cumbie Professor of Conflict Resolution at George Mason University (Mary E, Rhetoric, Patriarchy & War: Explaining the Dangers of "Leadership" in Mass Culture, Women and Language. Urbana: Fall 2004. Vol. 27, Iss. 2; pg. 21, 8 pgs, ProQuest, AMiles) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Today's Western patriarchal world view now dominates globalwide dialogue among the "leaders" of Earth's nearly two hundred nation-states. Its Machiavellian/Realpolitik assumptions about the necessity of' military power to preserve order within and between groups of humans trumps--and <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">stifles--other</span> </span></span>potential <span class="Underline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">viewpoints</span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. Founded on the belief that "evil" is innate, it dictates that human conflict must be "controlled": global "law" backed by coercive force. This view, when cross-culturally imposed, becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy, thus "<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">legitimating" </span></span></span>an<span class="Underline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;"> escalating use of force</span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. Western leaders (male and female) use a rhetoric couched in a "hegemonic masculinity" to justify their ready use of </span></span>military<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> force to coerce "those who are against us" into compliance. This translates globally as "national leaders must never lose facet!" Changing this dominant paradigm requires dismantling the hierarchic hegemony of masculine militarism and its related economic institutions, through global cross-cultural dialogues, thus replacing a hegemonic world view and institutions with new, more adaptive visions, woven out of the most useful remnants of multiple past cultural stories. The paper concludes with a few examples where people around the worm are doing just this--using their own small voices to insert their local "sacred social story" into the global dialogue. This global process--free from a hegemonic militaristic rhetoric--has the potential to initiate a planetary dialogue where "boundaries" are no longer borders to be defended, but sites of social ferment and creative adaptation. When the call came for papers on War, Language, and Gender, referring us to Carol Cohn's seminal paper "Sex and Death in the Rational World of Defense Intellectuals," (1) I at first felt that little more could be added on the subject. But events in Washington in the ensuing weeks stimulated me to a broader "take" on this topic. Defense intellectuals, after all, are embedded in a whole culture, and the interaction is two-way. Not only does their </span></span>strategic <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">framework with </span></span>its <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">euphemistic language about war </span></span>and killing<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> have the outcome of <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">forcing society to think in their terms;</span> their framework and language developed in response to our deeply embedded, Western cultural image of a Machiavellian / neo-Darwinian universe. In other words, militarism and the necessity for organized physical force (2) emerge out of culturewide assumptions about human nature. Throughout historical times these assumptions </span></span>have <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">repeatedly proved to be <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">self-fulfilling prophecies</span>. The pervasive perception of enemy-competitors </span></span>has <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">generated </span></span>violent <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">conflicts that </span></span>flared up and<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> died </span></span>back<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, only to flare up again through our failure to achieve deep resolution and, especially, to alter </span></span>our <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">basic beliefs about human nature and our consequent social institutions. Today our species, politically, comprises some 180190 "nations" of varying cultural homogeneity and moral legitimacy, not to mention size and physical power. Regardless of their indigenous, internal cultural preferences, their cross-national interactions are institutionalized to fit a framework long established by former Western colonial powers among themselves. In other words, </span></span>the global <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">"reality" constructed by Western patriarchies-a Realpolitik, ultimately grounded in </span></span>military <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">power-has come to define day-to-day cross-</span></span>national <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">politics. During the era of the Cold War, this resulted in small, powerless nations seeking alliances with one or other superpower, which offered not only development aid but military protection, and, for locally unpopular, but "cooperating" leaders, small arms to maintain order at home. The "end" of the Cold War brought little change in this pervasive global militarism (though it did strengthen the role of economic hegemony by the remaining superpower (3)). The enormous </span></span>technological <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">"improvements</span></span>"-i.e. efficiency<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> in killing power-in weaponry of all types over the past few decades has now resulted in </span></span>a dangerously<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> over-armed planet that </span></span>simultaneously <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">faces a </span></span>desperate <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">shortage of resources available for providing the world's people with water, energy, health care, education, and the infrastructure for distributing them. While our environmental and social overheads continue to mount, our species seems immobilized, <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">trapped in an institutionalized militarism</span>-an evolutionary cul-de-sac! We need new insights-as Cohn said, a new language</span></span>, a new set of metaphors,<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> a new mental framework-for thinking, dialoguing and visioning </span></span>new patterns of intersocietal <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">interaction. </span></span>


==2NC Epist== 



**Tickner 1—**professor at the School of International Relations, USC. B.A. in History, U London. M.A. in IR, Yale. PhD in pol sci, Brandeis U (Ann, Gendering World Politics: Issues and Approaches in the Post-Cold War Era, 52-53, AMiles)

Does the fact that states’ national-security policies are often legitimated by appealing to masculine characteristics, such as power and self-help, mean that certain types of foreign-policy behaviors—standing tall, rather than wimping out—are seen as more legitimate than others? Could it be that men who, in the role of defense experts, must employ tough “masculine” language and suppress any “feminized” thoughts when constructing strategic options, come to regard more cooperative choices as unthinkable and co operative behavior as unlikely?58 Carol Cohn claims that the language we use shapes the way we view the world and thus how we act on it. Her analysis of the language of U.S. security experts, whose ideas have been important for mainstream security studies, suggests that this masculine-gendered discourse is the only permissible way of speaking about national security if one is to be taken seriously by the strategic community. This rational, disembodied language precludes discussion of the death and destruction of war, issues that can be spoken of only in emotional terms stereotypically associated with women. In other words, the limits on what can be said with the language of strategic discourse constrains our ability to think fully and well about national security. In their analysis of U.S. policy on bombing Indochina during the VietnamWar, Jennifer Milliken and David Sylvan examine the discourse of U.S. policymakers. They claim it was gendered.59 When policymakers spoke or wrote about South Vietnam, it was portrayed <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">as</span></span> weak and feminized, its population as hysterical and childlike; the North Vietnamese, on the other hand, were characterized as brutal fanatics—as manifesting a perverted form of masculinity. The authors claim that bombing policy, responding to these gendered portrayals, was different in each case. While not denying the reality of what policymakers do, Milliken and Sylvan, like Cohn, claim that words have power and, therefore, consequences; <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">the way in which policymakers</span> and scholars <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">construct reality has an effect on how they act upon and explain that reality</span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Gender</span></span>-differentiated <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">images</span></span> are often used in foreign policy to <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">legitimate certain options</span></span> and discredit others. Therefore, Walt’s aspiration for separating the “political” from the “scientific” is questionable. In other words, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">theories cannot be separated from </span></span>political <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">practice</span></span>. 

**That outweighs the aff—flawed modes of knowledge production make extinction inevitable**
**Bilgin 5**—Department of International Relations, Bilkent University (Pinar, Regional Security in the Middle East: A Critical Perspective, Pg 164-5)

Thinking about the future from a critical security perspective need not be limited to ‘desired’ futures only. Students of security could also try and shape the future by pointing to what some futures may bring if no preventive action is taken in the present – as Ulrich Beck has done in Risk Society (1992). According to Beck, if threats to security are ‘threats to the future’, as is the case with many environmental threats (such as depletion of natural resources), then, it is imperative that they be addressed in the present. For, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">through our</span></span> past <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">decisions </span></span>about atomic energy and our present decisions about the use of genetic technology, human genetics, nanotechnology and computer science, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">we unleash unforeseeable</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">uncontrollable</span></span>, indeed <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">even, incommunicable consequences that threaten life on earth.</span></span> (Beck 2003: 257) ‘As conjectures, as threats to the future, as prognoses, [such threats] have and develop a practical relevance to preventive actions’, notes Beck (1992: 34). However, one problem with trying to mobilise action to meet such threats is that they only exist in the future as conjectures. It is only through thinking and writing about such threats that one could raise peoples’ awareness regarding what the future may bring, and what needs to be done in the present to prevent them from happening. When issues such as threats to the environment are concerned, thinking (and writing) about the future becomes crucial; otherwise they have the potential to cause destruction on ‘such a scale that action afterwards would be practically impossible’ (Beck 1992: 34). Although Beck’s thesis is about the environment, the points he makes in explaining the way <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">human agency has been complicit</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">via the production of knowledge, in </span></span>exacerbating (if not <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">creating</span></span>) ‘<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">threats to the future’</span></span> could be adopted and adapted to further develop the critique students of critical security present of prevailing security discourses in general and US discourse <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">on </span></span>regional security in the Middle East in particular. Beck (1992: 183) writes: In contrast to all earlier epochs . . . the risk society is characterized by a lack: the impossibility of an external attribution of hazards. In other words, risks depend on decisions . . . <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Risks are the reflection of human actions and omissions</span></span>, the expression of highly developed productive forces. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">That means that the sources of danger are no longer ignorance but knowledge; not a deficient but a perfected mastery over nature. </span></span>Beck’s point is made within the context of environmental politics, where the grip of ‘scientific’ knowledge over practice is even stronger than in the less ‘scientific’ Security Studies. Nevertheless, as noted above, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">knowledge about the future,</span></span> presented in terms of obstacles and opportunities, both <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">constrains and informs actors’ practices thereby helping constitute the future</span></span>. Then, given the ways in which the Middle Eastern security discourse has, in the past, been complicit in shaping regional insecurity in the Middle East, it could be argued that uncritical adoption of existing knowledge produced by <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">prevailing discourses that do not offer anything other than more of the same does itself constitute a ‘threat to the future’. Accordingly, students of security who fail to reflect upon the self-constitutive potential of their thinking would be complicit in perpetuating </span></span>regional <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">insecurity </span></span>in the Middle East<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. </span></span>



==Poz Peace== 


**Their crisis driven politics marginalizes movements for true peace and relegates extra-state violence to the margins of international relations**
**Sandy and Perkins 2** [Leo R. veteran of the U.S. Navy and an active member of Veterans for Peace, Inc., co-founder of Peace Studies at Plymouth State College, Ray; Teaches philosophy at Plymouth State College, The Nature of Peace and Its Implications for Peace Education”, Online journal of peace and conflict resolution, Issue 4.2, Spring 02, http://www.trinstitute.org/ojpcr/4_2natp.htm] 

The peace process additionally must acknowledge and contend with its alternative -war-because of the high value status of violence. For example, while war has brought out the worst kind of behavior in humans, it has also brought out some of the best. Aside from relieving boredom and monotony, war has been shown to spawn self-sacrifice, loyalty, honor, heroism, and courage. It is well known that suicide rates decline during war. Also, war has helped to bring about significant social changes such as racial and sexual integration, freedom, democracy and a sense of national pride. Because of its apparent utilitarian value and its ability to enervate, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">violence has been</span></span> solidly <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">embedded in </span></span>the national <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">psyche </span></span>of many countries. As a result, its elimination will be no easy feat. Nevertheless, Reardon (1988) insists that “<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">peace is the absence of violence</span></span> in all its forms --physical, social<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, psychological, and structural</span></span> (p. 16). But this, as a definition, is unduly negative in that it fails to provide any affirmative picture of peace or its ingredients (Copi and Cohen, p. 195). Perhaps that picture must come, as O’Kane (1992) suggests, from a close examination of the “nature of causes, reasons, goals of war in order that we might ... find ways of reaching human goals without resorting to force. That process should help us “uncover” the possible conditions of Peace.” <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In </span></span>its most myopic and <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">limited definition, peace is the </span></span>mere <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">absence of war</span></span>. O’Kane (1992) sees this definition as a “vacuous, passive, simplistic, and unresponsive escape mechanism too often resorted to in the past -without success.” <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This</span></span> definition also commits a serious oversight: it <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">ignores </span></span>the residual <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">feelings of mistrust</span></span> and suspicion <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">that </span></span>the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">winners and losers </span></span>of a war <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">harbor </span></span>toward each other. The subsequent <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">suppression </span></span>of mutual hostile <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">feelings is not taken into account </span></span>by those who define peace so simply. Their stance is that as long as people are not actively engaged in overt, mutual, violent, physical and destructive activity, then peace exists. This, of course, is just another way of defining cold war. In other words, this simplistic definition is too broad because it allows us to attribute the term “peace” to states of affairs that are not truly peaceful (Copi and Cohen, p. 194). Unfortunately, this definition of peace appears to be the prevailing one in the world. It is the kind of peace maintained by a “<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">peace through strength” </span></span>posture that has <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">led to the arms race, </span></span>stockpiles of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">nuclear weapons, and the ultimate threat of </span></span>mutually assured <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">destruction</span></span>. This version of peace was defended by the “peacekeeper”--a name that actually adorns some U.S. nuclear weapons deployed since 1986.1 Also, versions of this name appear on entrances to some military bases. Keeping “peace” in this manner evokes the theme in Peggy Lee’s old song, “Is That All There is?” <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">What this </span></span>really <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">comes down to is </span></span>the idea of <span class="Underline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">massive and indiscriminate killing for peace</span></span>, which represents a morally dubious notion if not a fault of logic. The point here is that a “<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">peace” which depends upon the threat</span></span> and intention <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">to kill vast numbers</span></span> of human beings <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is hardly </span></span>a<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> stable</span></span> or justifiable peace worthy of the name. Those in charge of waging war know that killing is a questionable activity. Otherwise, they would not use such euphemisms as “collateral damage” and “smart bombs” to obfuscate it. Some different types of peace One way of clearing up the confusion over terms is to define types of peace and war. Thus, there can be hot war, cold war, cold peace, and hot peace. In hot war, commonly called war, there is a condition of mutual hostility and active physical engagement through such forms as artillery, missiles, bombs, small arms fire, mortars, flamethrowers, land and sea mines, hand-to-hand combat, and the like. The aim is the destruction of the enemy or his surrender by intimidation. The object is to have a winner and loser. Nationalism reaches its zenith here. In cold war, there is mutual hostility without actual engagement. Intimidation is the sole means of preventing hot war. This condition is characterized by propaganda, war preparations, and arms races--always at the expense of human needs. During a cold war, nationalism prevails, and the object is to have a stalemate where neither side will initiate aggression--nuclear or conventional--because of the overwhelming destructive capability of the retaliatory response. In cold peace, there is almost a neutral view of a previous enemy. There is little mutual hostility but there is also a lack of mutually beneficial interactions aimed at developing trust, interdependence, and collaboration. There may be a longing for an enemy because nothing has replaced it as an object of national concern. In this situation, isolationism and nationalism occur simultaneously. There is no clear objective because there is no well-defined enemy. Perhaps the current U.S. military <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">preoccupation with</span></span> Iraq’s <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Saddam </span></span>Hussein <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and the</span></span> debilitating <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">decade of sanctions </span></span>against the Iraqi people<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> are helping to relieve this enemy deficit</span></span>. The notion that “there are still dangerous people in the world” is often used to advance the cause of military preparedness and at least some momentum toward a restoration of cold war thinking and behavior. The term “peace dividend” that expressed post cold war optimism is hardly verbalized anymore. Now we are (again) advancing ballistic missile defense--a variation of the Reagan Administration’ s Star Wars debacle, and an inst igator of nuclear proliferation. By contrast, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">hot peace involves active collaborative efforts</span></span> designed <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">to “build bridges”</span></span> between and among past and present adversaries. This involves searching for common ground and the development of new non-human enemies--threats to the health and well-being of humankind and the planet.2 These new enemies could include human rights abuses, air and water pollution, dwindling energy resources, the destruction of the ozone layer, famine, poverty, and ignorance. Hot peace promotes-and, indeed, is defined by--global interdepedence, human rights, democratization, an effective United Nations, and a diminution of national sovereignty. The object is the proliferation of cooperative relations and mutually beneficial outcomes. Hot peace thinking <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">imagines peace and the abolition of war.</span></span> Another way of thinking about peace is to have it defined in negative and positive terms. Peace as the mere absence of war is what Woolman (1985) refers to as “negative peace.” This definition is based on Johan Galtung’s ideas of peace. For Galtung, negative peace is defined as a state requiring a set of social structures that provide security and protection from acts of direct physical violence committed by individuals, groups or nations. The emphasis is ...on control of violence. The main strategy is dissociation, whereby conflicting parties are separated...In general, policies based on the idea of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">negative peace <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">do not deal with the causes of violence,</span> only </span></span>its <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">manifestations.</span></span> Therefore, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">these </span></span>policies <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">are </span></span>thought to be <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">insufficient to assure lasting</span></span> conditions of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">peace. </span></span>Indeed, by suppressing the release of tensions resulting from social conflict, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">negative peace</span></span> efforts <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">may </span></span>actually <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">lead to <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">future violence of greater magnitude</span></span></span>. (Woolman, 1985, p.8) The recent wars in the former Yugoslavia are testimony to this. The massive military machine previously provided by the U.S.S.R. put a lid on ethnic hostilities yet did nothing to resolve them thus allowing them to fester and erupt later.


==Reps 1st== 


**3) Representation is the MOST important question in international relations. The way we frame politics creates the ontologies that prevent or sanction every type of violence.**
**Der Derian 2—**Professor of International Relations (Research) at Brown University and Professor of Political Science at UMASS/Amherst (James, Theory & Event The War of Networks 5:4 | © 2002 )

Without falling into the trap of 'moral equivalency', one can discern striking similarities. Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld and others have made much of the 'asymmetrical' war being waged by the terrorists. And it is indeed a canny and even diabolical use of asymmetrical tactics as well as strategies when terrorists commandeer commercial aircraft and transform them into kinetic weapons of indiscriminate violence, and then deploy commercial media to counter the military strikes that follow. Yet, a fearful symmetry is also at work, at an unconscious, possibly pathological level, a war of escalating and competing and imitative oppositions, a mimetic war of images. A mimetic war is a battle of imitation and representation, in which the relationship of who we are and who they are is played out along a wide spectrum of familiarity and friendliness, indifference and tolerance, estrangement and hostility. It can result in appreciation or denigration, accommodation or separation, assimilation or extermination. It draws physical boundaries between peoples, as well as metaphysical boundaries between life and the most radical other of life, death. It separates human from god. It builds the fence that makes good neighbors; it builds the wall that confines a whole people. And it sanctions just about <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">every kind of violence</span>. More than a rational calculation of interests takes us to war. People go to war because of how they<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;"> see, perceive, </span>picture, imagine<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">, and speak of others:</span> that is, how they construct the difference of others as well as the sameness of themselves through representations. From Greek tragedy and Roman gladiatorial spectacles to futurist art and fascist rallies, the mimetic mix of image and violence has proven to be more powerful than the most rational discourse. Indeed, the medical definition of mimesis is 'the appearance, often caused by hysteria, of symptoms of a disease not actually present.' Before one can diagnose a cure, one must study the symptoms -- or, as it was once known in medical science, practice semiology.


==Framework== 


**Jones 99**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">—IR prof @ </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Aberystwyth</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> (Richard, “6. Emancipation: Reconceptualizing Practice,” Security, Strategy and Critical Theory, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/wynjones/wynjones06.html, AMiles)</span>

<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">The central political task of</span> the <span class="Underline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">intellectuals</span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> is to </span></span>aid in the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">construct</span></span>ion of a counterhegemony and thus undermine the prevailing patterns of discourse and interaction that make up the currently dominant hegemony. This task is accomplished through educational activity, because, as Gramsci argues, “every relationship of ‘hegemony’ is necessarily a pedagogic relationship” (Gramsci 1971: 350). Discussing the relationship of the “philosophy of praxis” to political practice, Gramsci claims: It [the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">theory</span></span>] does not tend to leave the “simple” in their primitive philosophy of common sense, but rather to lead them to a higher conception of life. If it <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">affirms the need for contact between intellectuals and “simple”</span></span> it is not in order to restrict scientific activity and preserve unity at the low level of the masses, but precisely <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in order to construct an intellectual–</span></span>moral <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">bloc which can make politically possible the intellectual progress of the mass</span></span> and not only of small intellectual groups. (Gramsci 1971: 332–333) According to Gramsci, this attempt to construct an alternative “intellectual–moral bloc” should take place under the auspices of the Communist Party—a body he described as the “modern prince.” Just as Niccolò Machiavelli hoped to see a prince unite Italy, rid the country of foreign barbarians, and create a virtù–ous state, Gramsci believed that the modern prince could lead the working class on its journey toward its revolutionary destiny of an emancipated society (Gramsci 1971: 125–205). Gramsci’s relative optimism about the possibility of progressive theorists playing a constructive role in emancipatory political practice was predicated on his belief in the existence of a universal class (a class whose emancipation would inevitably presage the emancipation of humanity itself) with revolutionary potential. It was a gradual loss of faith in this axiom that led Horkheimer and Adorno to their extremely pessimistic prognosis about the possibilities of progressive social change. But does a loss of faith in the revolutionary vocation of the proletariat necessarily lead to the kind of quietism ultimately embraced by the first generation of the Frankfurt School? The conflict that erupted in the 1960s between them and their more radical students suggests not. Indeed, contemporary critical theorists claim that the deprivileging of the role of the proletariat in the struggle for emancipation is actually a positive move. Class remains a very important axis of domination in society, but it is not the only such axis (Fraser 1995). Nor is it valid to reduce all other forms of domination—for example, in the case of gender—to class relations, as orthodox Marxists tend to do. To recognize these points is not only a first step toward the development of an analysis of forms of exploitation and exclusion within society that is more attuned to social reality; it is also a realization that there are other forms of emancipatory politics than those associated with class conflict.[[#txt1]][[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/wynjones/wynjones06.html#note1#note1|1 ]]This in turn suggests new possibilities and problems for emancipatory theory. Furthermore, the abandonment of faith in revolutionary parties is also a positive development. The history of the European left during the twentieth century provides myriad examples of the ways in which the fetishization of party organizations has led to bureaucratic immobility and the confusion of means with ends (see, for example, Salvadori 1990). The failure of the Bolshevik experiment illustrates how disciplined, vanguard parties are an ideal vehicle for totalitarian domination (Serge 1984). Faith in the “infallible party” has obviously been the source of strength and comfort to many in this period and, as the experience of the southern Wales coalfield demonstrates, has inspired brave and progressive behavior (see, for example, the account of support for the Spanish Republic in Francis 1984). But such parties have so often been the enemies of emancipation that they should be treated with the utmost caution. Parties are necessary, but their fetishization is potentially disastrous. History furnishes examples of progressive developments that have been positively influenced by organic intellectuals operating outside the bounds of a particular party structure (G. Williams 1984). Some of these developments have occurred in the particularly intractable realm of security. These examples may be considered as “resources of hope” for critical security studies (R. Williams 1989). They illustrate that ideas are important or, more correctly, that change is the product of the dialectical interaction of ideas and material reality. One clear security–related example of the role of critical thinking and critical thinkers in aiding and abetting progressive social change is the experience of the peace movement of the 1980s. At that time the ideas of dissident defense intellectuals (the “alternative defense” school) encouraged and drew strength from peace activism. Together they had an effect <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">not only on short–term policy but on the dominant discourses of </span>strategy and <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">security</span>, a far more important result in the long run. The synergy between critical security intellectuals and critical social movements and the potential influence of both working in tandem can be witnessed particularly clearly in the fate of common security. As Thomas Risse–Kappen points out, the term “common security” originated in the contribution of peace researchers to the German security debate of the 1970s (Risse–Kappen 1994: 186ff.); it was subsequently popularized by the Palme Commission report (Independent Commission on Disarmament and Security Issues 1982). Initially, mainstream defense intellectuals dismissed the concept as hopelessly idealistic; it certainly had no place in their allegedly hardheaded and realist view of the world. However, notions of common security were taken up by a number of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">different </span></span>intellectual communities, including the liberal arms control community in the United States, Western European peace researchers, security specialists in the center–left political parties of Western Europe, and Soviet “institutchiks”—members of the influential policy institutes in the Soviet Union such as the United States of America and Canada Institute (Landau 1996: 52–54; Risse–Kappen 1994: 196–200; Kaldor 1995; Spencer 1995). These communities were subsequently able to take advantage of public pressure exerted through social movements in order to gain broader acceptance for common security. In Germany, for example, “in response to social movement pressure, German social organizations such as churches and trade unions quickly supported the ideas promoted by peace researchers and the SPD” (Risse–Kappen 1994: 207). Similar pressures even had an effect on the Reagan administration. As Risse–Kappen notes: When the Reagan administration brought hard–liners into power, the US arms control community was removed from policy influence. It was the American peace movement and what became known as the “freeze campaign” that revived the arms control process together with pressure from the European allies. (Risse–Kappen 1994: 205; also Cortright 1993: 90–110) Although it would be difficult to sustain a claim that the combination of critical movements and **intellectuals** persuaded the Reagan government to adopt the rhetoric and substance of common security in its entirety, it is clear that it did at least **have a substantial impact on ameliorating U.S. behavior.** The most dramatic and certainly the most unexpected impact of alternative defense ideas was felt in the Soviet Union. Through various East–West links, which included arms control institutions, Pugwash conferences, interparty contacts, and even direct personal links, a coterie of Soviet policy analysts and advisers were drawn toward common security and such attendant notions as “nonoffensive defense” (these links are detailed in Evangelista 1995; Kaldor 1995; Checkel 1993; Risse–Kappen 1994; Landau 1996 and Spencer 1995 concentrate on the role of the Pugwash conferences). This group, including Palme Commission member Georgii Arbatov, Pugwash attendee Andrei Kokoshin, and Sergei Karaganov, a senior adviser who was in regular contact with the Western peace researchers Anders Boserup and Lutz Unterseher (Risse–Kappen 1994: 203), then influenced Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. Gorbachev’s subsequent championing of common security may be attributed to several factors. It is clear, for example, that new Soviet leadership had a strong interest in alleviating tensions in East–West relations in order to facilitate much–needed domestic reforms (“the interaction of ideas and material reality”). But what is significant is that the Soviets’ commitment to common security led to significant changes in force sizes and postures. These in turn aided in the winding down of the Cold War, the end of Soviet domination over Eastern Europe, and even the collapse of Russian control over much of the territory of the former Soviet Union. At the present time, in marked contrast to the situation in the early 1980s, common security is part of the common sense of security discourse. As MccGwire points out, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) (a common defense pact) is using the rhetoric of common security in order to justify its expansion into Eastern Europe (MccGwire 1997). This points to an interesting and potentially important aspect of the impact of ideas on politics. As concepts such as common security, and collective security before it (Claude 1984: 223–260), are adopted by governments and military services, they inevitably become somewhat debased. The hope is that enough of the residual meaning can survive to shift the parameters of the debate in a potentially progressive direction. Moreover, the adoption of the concept of common security by official circles provides critics with a useful tool for (immanently) critiquing aspects of security policy (as MccGwire 1997 demonstrates in relation to NATO expansion). The example of common security is highly instructive. First, it indicates that critical intellectuals can be politically engaged and play a role—a significant one at that—in making the world a better and safer place. Second, it points to potential future addressees for critical international theory in general, and critical security studies in particular. Third, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it </span></span>also <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">underlines the role of ideas in the evolution of society. </span></span>Although most proponents of critical security studies reject aspects of Gramsci’s theory of organic intellectuals, in particular his exclusive concentration on class and his emphasis on the guiding role of the party, the desire for engagement and relevance must remain at the heart of their project. The example of the peace movement suggests that critical theorists can still play the role of organic intellectuals and that this organic relationship need not confine itself to a single class; it can involve alignment with different coalitions of social movements that campaign on an issue or a series of issues pertinent to the struggle for emancipation (Shaw 1994b; R. Walker 1994). Edward Said captures this broader orientation when he suggests that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">critical intellectuals “are always tied </span></span>to <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and </span></span>ought to <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">remain a</span></span>n organic <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">part of an ongoing experience in society</span></span>: of the poor, the disadvantaged, the voiceless, the unrepresented, the powerless” (Said 1994: 84). In the specific case of critical security studies, this means placing the experience of those men and women and communities for whom the present world order is a cause of insecurity rather than security at the center of the agenda and making suffering humanity rather than raison d’état the prism through which problems are viewed. Here the project stands full–square within the critical theory tradition. If “all theory is for someone and for some purpose,” then critical security studies is for “the voiceless, the unrepresented, the powerless,” and its purpose is their emancipation. The theoretical implications of this orientation have already been discussed in the previous chapters. They involve a fundamental reconceptualization of security with a shift in referent object and a broadening of the range of issues considered as a legitimate part of the discourse. They also involve a reconceptualization of strategy within this expanded notion of security. But the question remains at the conceptual level of how these alternative types of theorizing—even if they are self–consciously aligned to the practices of critical or new social movements, such as peace activism, the struggle for human rights, and the survival of minority cultures—can become “a force for the direction of action.” Again, Gramsci’s work is insightful. In the Prison Notebooks, Gramsci advances a sophisticated analysis of how <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">dominant discourses play a vital role in upholding particular political</span></span> and economic <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">orders</span></span>, or, in Gramsci’s terminology, “historic blocs” (Gramsci 1971: 323–377). Gramsci adopted Machiavelli’s view of power as a centaur, half man, half beast: a mixture of consent and coercion. Consent is produced and reproduced by a ruling hegemony that holds sway through civil society and through which ruling or dominant ideas become widely dispersed. [[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/wynjones/wynjones06.html#note2#note2|2 ]]In particular, Gramsci describes how <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">ideology </span></span>becomes sedimented in society and takes on the status of common sense; it <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">becomes subconsciously accepted</span></span> and even regarded as beyond question. Obviously, for Gramsci, there is nothing immutable about the values that permeate society; they can and do change. In the social realm, ideas and institutions that were once seen as natural and beyond question (i.e., commonsensical) in the West, such as feudalism and slavery, are now seen as anachronistic, unjust, and unacceptable. In Marx’s well–worn phrase, “All that is solid melts into the air.” Gramsci’s intention is to harness this potential for change and ensure that it moves in the direction of emancipation. To do this he suggests a strategy of a “war of position” (Gramsci 1971: 229–239). Gramsci argues that in states with developed civil societies, such as those in Western liberal democracies, any successful attempt at progressive social change requires a slow, incremental, even molecular, struggle to break down the prevailing hegemony and construct an alternative counterhegemony to take its place. Organic intellectuals <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">have a crucial role to play in this process</span> <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">by helping to undermine the “natural,”</span></span> “commonsense,” internalized <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">nature of the status quo</span></span>. This in turn helps <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">create political space within which alternative conceptions of politics can be developed</span> and new historic blocs created. I contend that Gramsci’s strategy of a war of position suggests an appropriate model for proponents of critical security studies to adopt in relating their theorizing to political practice. The Tasks of Critical Security Studies If the project of critical security studies is conceived in terms of a war of position, then the main task of those intellectuals who align themselves with the enterprise is to attempt to undermine the prevailing hegemonic security discourse. This may be accomplished by utilizing specialist information and expertise to engage in an immanent critique of the prevailing security regimes, that is, comparing the justifications of those regimes with actual outcomes. When this is attempted in the security field, the prevailing structures and regimes are found to fail grievously on their own terms. Such an approach also involves challenging the pronouncements of those intellectuals, traditional or organic, whose views serve to legitimate, and hence reproduce, the prevailing world order. This challenge entails teasing out the often subconscious and certainly unexamined assumptions that underlie their arguments while drawing attention to the normative viewpoints that are smuggled into mainstream thinking about security behind its positivist facade. In this sense, proponents of critical security studies approximate to Foucault’s notion of “specific intellectuals” who use their expert knowledge to challenge the prevailing “regime of truth” (Foucault 1980: 132). However, critical theorists might wish to reformulate this sentiment along more familiar Quaker lines of “speaking truth to power” (this sentiment is also central to Said 1994) or even along the eisteddfod lines of speaking “truth against the world.” Of course, traditional strategists can, and indeed do, sometimes claim a similar role. Colin S. Gray, for example, states that “strategists must be prepared to ‘speak truth to power’” (Gray 1982a: 193). But the difference between Gray and proponents of critical <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">security studies</span></span> is that, whereas the former seeks to influence policymakers in particular directions without questioning the basis of their power, the latter aim at a thoroughgoing critique of all that traditional security studies has taken for granted. Furthermore, critical theorists base their critique on the presupposition, elegantly stated by Adorno, that “the need to lend suffering a voice is the precondition of all truth” (cited in Jameson 1990: 66). The aim of critical security studies in attempting to undermine the prevailing orthodoxy is <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">ultimately educational</span>. As Gramsci notes, “Every relationship of ‘hegemony’ is necessarily a pedagogic relationship” (Gramsci 1971: 350; see also the discussion of critical pedagogy in Neufeld 1995: 116–121). Thus, by criticizing the hegemonic discourse and advancing alternative conceptions of security based on different understandings of human potentialities, the approach is simultaneously playing a part in eroding the legitimacy of the ruling historic bloc and contributing to the development of a counterhegemonic position. There are a number of avenues open to critical security specialists in pursuing this educational strategy. As teachers, they can try to foster and encourage skepticism toward accepted wisdom and open minds to other possibilities. They can also take advantage of the seemingly unquenchable thirst of the media for instant punditry to forward alternative views onto a broader stage. Nancy Fraser argues: “As teachers, we try to foster an emergent pedagogical counterculture.... As critical public intellectuals we try to inject our perspectives into whatever cultural or political public spheres we have access to” (Fraser 1989: 11). Perhaps significantly, support for this type of emancipatory strategy can even be found in the work of the ultrapessimistic Adorno, who argues: In the history of civilization there have been not a few instances when delusions were healed not by focused propaganda, but, in the final analysis, because scholars, with their unobtrusive yet insistent work habits, studied what lay at the root of the delusion. (cited in Kellner 1992: vii) Such “unobtrusive yet insistent work” does not in itself create the social change to which Adorno alludes. The conceptual and the practical dangers of collapsing practice into theory must be guarded against. Rather, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">through </span></span>their <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">educational activities</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">proponents of </span></span>critical <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">security studies should aim to provide support for those social movements that promote </span></span>emancipatory <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">social change</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">By providing a critique of the prevailing order</span></span> and legitimating alternative views, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">critical theorists can perform a valuable role in supporting the struggles of social movements. </span></span>That said, the role of theorists is not to direct and instruct those movements with which they are aligned; instead, the relationship is reciprocal. The experience of the European, North American, and Antipodean peace movements of the 1980s shows how influential social movements can become when their efforts are harnessed to the intellectual and educational activity of critical thinkers. For example, in his account of New Zealand’s antinuclear stance in the 1980s, Michael C. Pugh cites the importance of the visits of critical intellectuals such as Helen Caldicott and Richard Falk in changing the country’s political climate and encouraging the growth of the antinuclear movement (Pugh 1989: 108; see also Cortright 1993: 5–13). In the 1980s peace movements and critical intellectuals interested in issues of security and strategy drew strength and succor from each other’s efforts. If such critical social movements do not exist, then this creates obvious difficulties for the critical theorist. But even under these circumstances, the theorist need not abandon all hope of an eventual orientation toward practice. Once again, the peace movement of the 1980s provides evidence of the possibilities. At that time, the movement benefited from the intellectual work undertaken in the lean years of the peace movement in the late 1970s. Some of the theories and concepts developed then, such as common security and nonoffensive defense, were eventually taken up even in the Kremlin and played a significant role in defusing the second Cold War. Those ideas developed in the 1970s can be seen in Adornian terms of a “message in a bottle,” but in this case, contra Adorno’s expectations, they were picked up and used to support a program of emancipatory political practice. Obviously, one would be naive to understate the difficulties facing those attempting to develop alternative critical approaches within academia. Some of these problems have been alluded to already and involve the structural constraints of academic life itself. Said argues that many problems are caused by what he describes as the growing “professionalisation” of academic life (Said 1994: 49–62). Academics are now so constrained by the requirements of job security and marketability that they are extremely risk–averse. It pays—in all senses—to stick with the crowd and avoid the exposed limb by following the prevalent disciplinary preoccupations, publish in certain prescribed journals, and so on. The result is the navel gazing so prevalent in the study of international relations and the seeming inability of security specialists to deal with the changes brought about by the end of the Cold War (Kristensen 1997 highlights the search of U.S. nuclear planners for “new targets for old weapons”). And, of course, the pressures for conformism are heightened in the field of security studies when governments have a very real interest in marginalizing dissent. Nevertheless, opportunities for critical thinking do exist, and this thinking can connect with the practices of social movements and become a “force for the direction of action.” The experience of the 1980s, when, in the depths of the second Cold War, critical thinkers risked demonization and in some countries far worse in order to challenge received wisdom, thus arguably <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">playing a crucial role in the very survival of the human race</span>, should act as both an inspiration and a challenge to critical security studies.

**Framework is a reason to vote negative—arbitrary attempts to define us out of the political makes causes paralysis and makes extinction inevitable**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Pettus 97 </span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">(Katherine, Ecofeminist Citizenship, Hypatia, Vol. 12, No. 4, Citizenship in Feminism: Identity, Action, and Locale, pp. 132-155, JSTOR, AMiles)</span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Even though</span></span>, if my argument is correct, oikos concerns dominate <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the polis</span></span> such that the latter <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is unable effectively to mediate the social and environmental pathologies generated by the market</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the issues raised by these pathologies are </span></span>still <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">referred to </span></span>colloquially <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">as "political."</span></span>8 <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It is the very slippage between</span></span> common usage of the term, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">contemporary praxis, and the cumulative genealogical failure of "the political" to cope that reveals the space wherein ecofeminist citizenship</span></span>, of necessity, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is practiced</span></span>. The <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">failure of political rationality</span></span>, which lays bare the urgency for new, direct, nonabstract, non-(simply) rights-based, participatory ways to practice citizenship, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">can be ascribed to a particular geneology of "the political"</span></span> and its inherent practice of citizenship.9 <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">To define what is "public, common and general" (in Wolin's phrase) as "the political" </span></span>and <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">therefore as ontologically exclusive of the "realm of necessity" that obtains in the private sphere is to create an artificial, theoretical separation where none exists at the natural, material level. The material consequences of institutionalizing this fiction of the political are pathological, however, and necessarily <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">result in the modem struggles for survival</span> (that is, for clean drinking water, sustainable forestry," no nukes," and so on).10 In her discussion of the origins of the word "political," Hannah Fenichel Pitkin describes how theorists such as Hannah Arendt and Sheldon Wolin employ the term. Wolin and Arendt are talking about what is political, about the meaning of 'political'; and they are trying to tell us that an important part of the meaning applies less and less well to the reality of the practice and institutions we still call, from habit, 'political.' They are trying to recall us from the habitual forms to the substance of the political. (Pitkin 1972, 213) </span></span>Is "the substance of the political" an ontological fact, then; something to which people can actually gain access, such that it effects the sort of transubstantiation of private persons into citizens envisioned by Aristotle? If so, must modem citizens end up in the same catastrophic cul-de-sac to which Aristotle's theory has led? J. G. A. Pocock calls the question. If one wants to make citizenship available to those to whom it has been denied on the grounds that they are too much involved in the world of things-in material, productive, domestic, or reproductive relationships-one has to choose between emancipating them from these relationships and denying that these relationships are negative components in the definition of citizenship. If one chooses the latter course, one is in search of a new definition of citizenship differing radically from the Greek definition articulated by Aristotle, a definition in which public and private are not rigorously separated and the barriers between them have become permeable or have disappeared altogether. In the latter case, one will have to decide whether the concept of the "public" has survived at all. (Pocock 1995, 33, emphasis added) Ecofeminist praxis reveals that "the latter course" has been chosen; that citizenship, and therefore "public," are being redefined. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Refusing the classical concept of "public</span></span>" (<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and</span></span> therefore, logically, its inverse, "<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">private</span></span>") <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">because both are fatally gendered</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">ecofeminism demonstrates </span></span>that both <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">public and private must be </span></span>theoretically <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">reconceived in pluralistic, inclusive terms</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">By endangering the natural resources on which human survival is based</span></span>, profitseeking <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">corporations</span></span> or government agencies themselves have <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">blurred the boundary</span></span> between "private" and "public," indicating the "new definition of citizenship" to which Pocock refers. The health and well-being of fetuses, babies, children, and the most intimate bodily functions of adults (affected by toxic emissions, for instance) are now the subject of publicly funded technoscientific discourse. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Shared "risk fate" obviates the oikos-polis distinction</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">which is still maintained in terms of women's unequal participation in the institutional public sphere, and thereby engenders unprecedented "political" action by women on behalf of their communities all over the world. Risk society brings public and private</span></span>, past (what has been done) and future (what will be its effects on unborn generations) <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">onto the same political stage. </span></span>Pitkin muses on a more abstract, and to ecofeminism more accessible, idea: Perhaps <span class="Underline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">what characterizes political</span> </span>life <span class="Underline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">is precisely the problem</span></span> of creating unity, a public, in a context of diversity, rival claims, unequal power, and conflicting interests. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In the absence of</span></span> rival claims and <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">conflicting interests, a topic never enters the political realm; <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">no political decision needs to be made</span></span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">But for the political collectivity, the "we" to act, those conflicting claims and interests must be resolved in a way that continues to preserve the collectivity.</span></span> (Pitkin 1972, 215) 


**Artificial restrictions on political discourse embrace a politics of fear that necessarily requires violence—empirically causes abysmal policies**

**DuRand 3** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Dr. Cliff is Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Morgan State University in Baltimore, Maryland. This paper was presented February 14, 2003 in a public lecture series sponsored by Biblioteca Publica in San Miguel de Allende, Mexico. http://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/~marto/aip/future.htm </span>



<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The main point I want to make about that era is that </span><span class="Underline">the climate of fear was </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">deliberately </span><span class="Underline">induced by our political elite </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">in order</span><span class="Underline"> to mobilize a frightened population into supporting </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">its </span><span class="Underline">anti-communist crusade</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Republicans and Democrats, </span><span class="Underline">conservatives and liberals </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">alike </span><span class="Underline">sought to purge Leftists from </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">the </span><span class="Underline">political life </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">of the nation</span> <span class="Underline">so there could be no dissenting voices </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">from a Cold War to protect capitalism and ensure U.S. hegemony in the world. </span><span class="Underline">Never mind that a nuclear arms race made us less secure, that in the name of anti-communism our government sought to crush every progressive movement </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">that emerged anywhere in the world, </span><span class="Underline">and </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">that </span><span class="Underline">the scope of political discourse </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">at home</span> <span class="Underline">was limited to a narrow range. </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">A fearful population was willing to accept all this and more. </span><span class="Underline">Fear induced an unquestioning, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">childlike </span><span class="Underline">trust in a political elite that promised to protect us from harm. </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">As the 17th century philosopher Thomas Hobbes well understood, those with sufficient fear for their lives, liberties and property will be willing to turn all that over to an all powerful Leviathan in hopes of finding security. The politics of fear has governed our national life ever since. With the end of the Cold War up until 911, there was a hiatus. Without a communist bogeyman to scare us with anymore, the national security state was faced with a legitimization crisis. How could it justify its interventions against Third World countries? How could it justify continued high levels of military expenditures? How could it sustain the powers of an imperial presidency? Without an enemy, without a threat to fear, how could the political elite mobilize public support? Through the 1990s you could see it grasping for a new enemy for us to fear. A war on drugs was offered as cover for interventions in the Andean countries and in Panama, even though the problem of drugs had its roots here at home. We were told to fear crime (at a time when crime rates were actually decreasing) so we would support draconian police and sentencing practices that have given us the highest prison population in the industrial world. But the most ludicrous of all was the propaganda campaign launched by the Pentagon to try to convince us that we were threatened by a possible asteroid that could crash into the earth, destroying all life. To protect against that, we needed to develop space laser weapons that could destroy an oncoming asteroid first. Thus did the military-industrial complex seek to frighten us into supporting the development of star wars weaponry. But none of that could quite do what the political elite needed. Finally, in 2001 on September 11 a spectacular mass terrorist crime gave them a new threat for us to fear. Quickly interpreting it as an act of war rather than a crime, the most reactionary sector of the elite declared war on an undefined enemy - a war without end. They offered us something new to fear so we would need the protection they claimed to offer. And they have played the politics of fear masterfully. With frequent alerts, high visibility security measures, constant reminders of vulnerabilities, an atmosphere of fear has been maintained even in the absence of further real attacks. In his January 29 State of the Union address, George W. Bush fed our fear with these words: "Imagine those 19 hijackers with other weapons and other plans, this time armed by Saddam Hussein. It would take one vial, one canister, one crate slipped into this country to bring a day of horror like none we have ever known." The operative word here is 'imagine.'</span> <span class="Underline">By fueling a fevered imagination, he promotes </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">a </span><span class="Underline">"</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">servile </span><span class="Underline">fearfulness</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">", to use Shakespeare's phrase</span><span class="Underline">. This </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">has </span><span class="Underline">enabled </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">this reactionary sector of the</span> <span class="Underline">elite to </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">not only </span><span class="Underline">win acceptance of <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">unprecedented regressive policies</span> </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">domestically</span><span class="Underline">, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">with passive acceptance by the rest of the elite, but now push through a war against a country that didn't even have anything to do with terrorism. Again, we can see how fear can be a potent political force in the hands of skilled political leaders.</span>

==Perm== 


**Pure alt framing is critical—the 1ACs presentation naturalizes gender and makes it inevitable**
**Christensen, MS in sociology, 8—**BS in sociology from State U of NY, Magna Cum Laude. MS in sociology, U Wisconsin-Madison. PhD expected in Spring 2010 (Wendy, “Cowboy of the World? Gender Discourse and the Iraq War Debate,” http://www.ssc.wisc.edu/~mferree/documents/ChristensenFerree.pdf, AMiles)

News debate is part of the “textually mediated discourses” which organize the social world (Smith 1999, p. 158). The news media shape public understanding of policy issues by mediating popular perceptions of what is important and why (Gitlin 2003; Tuchman 1978; Stone 1988). Stories try to create clear, simple pictures of otherwise complex issues by using thematic frames, such as labels of “hawk,” “liberal,” and “conservative” (Bennett 2001). The use of framing by the media <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">is a key site of cultural struggle</span>, in which political interests and interest groups intervene to shape the terms of a debate with greater or lesser effect (Gamson 1992; Benford and Snow 2000; Snow 2004). Gender is part of this political framing process. Journalists actively frame specific issues in relation to gender interests based on the social location of readers, sources and the journalists themselves (Brown and Ferree 2005; Wade 2006). Gendered language often appears in political debates about something other than gender. As a symbolic system gender “interweaves with other discourses and shapes them—and therefore shapes other aspects of our world” (Cohn 1993, p. 228). For example, advocates of animal rights avoid using female spokespeople in political debates because they believe women speakers will be understood as motivated by emotional sympathy with animals, while the men who speak for the movement are more easily heard as offering rational, scientific reasons for their position (Einwohner 1999). The gender association of purity and weakness with “women-and-children” has often been used strategically to argue for the need to defend a threatened national “homeland” (Yuval-Davis 1997; Enloe 1990, 1993). Gender ideologies symbolically structure the social world, <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">organize power relations</span>, and provide a catalyst for historical change (Scott 1986). American political discourse is generally structured by binary codes, whether of our two party system, adversarial legal system, or even the journalistic notion of “balance” that reduces any issue to two equal sides. Ferree (2003) shows that US media, unlike the German media, put coverage of abortion rights into a two-sided debate in which they try to be “balanced” regardless of the distribution of political forces. Alexander and Smith (1993) show that American civil discourse is ordered around democratic and counter-democratic ideologies that map onto to other binaries such as active/passive, controlled/passionate, and realistic/ unrealistic. More recently, Alexander (2004) shows that the discourse surrounding terrorism post-9/11 is organized in binary oppositions—East/West, rational/irrational, and equal/ dominating, and Wade (2006) shows that media coverage of female genital cutting defines it as evil, backward, and oppressive and the US as inherently good, modern, and liberating. In both these cases the binary oppositions structure policy options in a way that prevents mutually respectful negotiation and resolution of value conflicts. These exaggerated oppositions lend themselves to being depicted by the use of a symbolic binary, of which gender is the archetype (Lorber 1994). Paradoxically, the symbolic power of gender for expressing duality lies in its multiplicity, specifically in the hierarchy of differently valued femininities and masculinities (Connell 1987). The image of male versus female as a natural dualism allows differences among masculinities to be constructed as masculine–feminine; hegemonic masculinity, the version that is valued more highly than other kinds of masculinity, is constructed against these other subordinated masculinities, which by being “not masculine” are therefore framed as feminine. Although non-heterosexual, non-violent, non-dominant ways of being are open to attack as “deviant” and “not masculine,” they also can be embraced, in both discourse and practice, as alternatives to hegemonic power (Butler 1990). Whether labeled as feminist, feminine, effeminate or queer, such challenges to hegemonic masculinity as a human standard also <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">challenge institutional relations that sustain domination</span>. On the one hand, the construction and defense of dominant notions of masculinity occurs in part through the discourses of powerful institutions like the media (Connell 2002; Smith 1999). On the other hand, contrasting images of masculinity (or femininity) are tools employed strategically by actors within policy circles and within the media to <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">structure political debate to their advantage</span> (Hoganson 1998; Cohn 1993). As Deborah Stone (1988) shows, interjecting symbolic meaning into ambiguous circumstances does not control how readers or viewers make sense of what is presented, but it narrows the options and focuses debate on the “two sides” created by the media’s quest for “balance.” In striving for “balance,” American journalists are particularly likely to restructure complex issues to reflect a dual-sided debate (Gamson 1992). The choice of culturally understood symbols to frame a debate thus places the “sides” in relation to each other while <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">anything that falls outside of this ideological frame can be discursively dismissed</span> (Smith 1999). Using gender to organize the binary positions of war and peace not only tilts the balance of the debate toward the more culturally valued masculine side, but excludes considerations of options and issues that fall outside the binary framework altogether. By connecting the diversity of interests of those on each “side” into a gendered package, a binary framing of war debate is lent a logic that does not inherently belong to the constellation of concerns that diverse speakers have. 

==Links== 
===Tech=== 



**No link—we don’t say tech in general is bad, but in a hyper-masculine framework it guarantees extinction**
**Nhanenge 7** [Jytte Masters @ U South Africa, paper submitted in part fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “ECOFEMINSM: TOWARDS INTEGRATING THE CONCERNS OF WOMEN, POOR PEOPLE AND NATURE INTO DEVELOPMENT]

Technology can be used to dominate societies or to enhance them. Thus both science and technology could have developed in a different direction. But due to patriarchal values infiltrated in science the type of technology developed is meant to dominate, oppress, exploit and kill. One reason is that patriarchal societies identify masculinity with conquest. Thus any technical innovation will continue to be a tool for more effective oppression and exploitation. The highest priority seems to be given to technology that destroys life. Modern societies are dominated by masculine institutions and patriarchal ideologies. Their technologies prevailed in Auschwitz, Dresden, Hiroshima, Nagasaki, Vietnam, Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan and in many other parts of the world. Patriarchal power has brought us acid rain, global warming, military states, poverty and countless cases of suffering. We have seen men whose power has caused them to lose all sense of reality, decency and imagination, and we must fear such power. The ultimate result of unchecked patriarchy will be ecological catastrophe and nuclear holocaust. Such actions are denial of wisdom. It is working against natural harmony and destroying the basis of existence. But as long as ordinary people leave questions of technology to the "experts" we will continue the forward stampede. As long as economics focus on technology and both are the focus of politics, we can leave none of them to experts. Ordinary people are often more capable of taking a wider and more humanistic view than these experts. (Kelly 1990: 112-114; Eisler 1990: 32- 33; Schumacher 1993: 20, 126, 128, 130). 

**Impact is nuclear war and worse – technization makes destruction of reality inevitable**
**Schuurman 96—** PhD. Professor, Department of Christian Philosophy, Technological Universities of Delft and Eindhoven and the Agricultural University of Wageningen (Egbert, A Confrontation with Technicism As the Spiritual Climate of the West, Spring 1996, http://www.mattblackmon.com/pyne/schuurman.pdf, AMiles)

Nowadays, it is undeniable that the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">ideal of control has manifested itself in </span></span>the history of culture as a force of disturbance. This includes various forms of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">dehumanization, destruction of nature, pollution of the environment,</span></span> structural unemployment for many, risks of nuclear energy and <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">threat of a nuclear war. and the danger that our highly developed technological culture will become </span></span>increasingly and even <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">fatally unstable</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The instrumental use of science leads to the shaping of reality after the characteristics of science, </span></span>including its functionalism and universalism. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">When that use is large-scale and unrelenting, the abstractions of science lead to the reduction and ultimately even the destruction of reality and its meaning</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Such a loss of meaning is evident</span></span> on a large scale <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">today in the fragmentation of nature and society</span></span>. In bio-industry, for example, through reproductive and productive technologies the integrity or <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">essence of animals is often reduced to mere economic utility</span></span>.6 Furthermore, as a consequence of the fragmentation of global society <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">there is an absence of</span></span> harmony and <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">social justice</span></span> between the overdeveloped and the underdeveloped countries. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Uncritical efforts are made to solve these problems by introducing new forms of science and high technology</span></span>, such as the systems approach, information technology,7 bio-technology, and even genetic manipulation. Our culture has become marked by technicization in all fields.8 <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It is seldom asked</span></span>—and this is the critical question—<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">whether technology is suitable to solve all of our problems</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and especially the problems technology itself has created, such as pollution of the environment, deficiencies in agriculture, and so on. </span></span>

===Science=== 




**Claims to objectivity are merely celebrations of masculine ideals—even if they win their truth claims, they delegitimize any alternative discourses on science**
**Litfin 97**—Department of Political Science, U Washington. PhD, pol sci, UCLA. (Karen, The Gendered Eye in the Sky, Frontiers: A Journal of Women Studies, Vol. 18, No. 2, Intersections of Feminisms and Environmentalisms (1997), pp. 26-47, JSTOR, AMiles)

Taking these assumptions in order, consider the purported neutrality of science and scientists. Since the publication ofThomas Kuhn's work in the 1960s, a great deal of research in the history of science and the sociology of knowledge has undercut this assumption, demonstrating that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">science</span></span>, like all social institutions, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is suffused with power dynamics and irrationalities</span></span>.19 Feminist theorists have highlighted the dimension of gender, elucidating how <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">scientific practice</span></span> has <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">evolved under the formative influence of a particular ideal of masculinity based upon objectification and control</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Feminists relate the fixation on </span></span>scientific <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">objectivity</span></span>, which <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">depends upon a rigid dichotomy between subject and object, to other </span></span>parallel <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">hierarchical dichotomies</span></span> of modernity: <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">human/animal</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">mind/body, masculine/ feminine</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">reason/emotion, and elite/mass</span></span>. Feminists also find in <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">these </span></span>hierarchical <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">dichotomies </span></span>of modernity the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">link </span></span>between the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">oppression of women</span></span> and the degradation of nature, pointing to the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Baconian legacy</span></span> that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">summons the scientist "to bind Nature to your service and make her your slave</span></span>."20 Women, who have been traditionally defined as objects of control, have good reason to question the subject/object dichotomy. Evelyn Fox Keller, one of the pioneers of feminist philosophy of science, argues that the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">static objectivity of science that renders Nature into alien Other is rooted in the distinctive subjectivity of masculine psychological development with its preoccupation with autonomy</span></span>.21 Keller's conception of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">dynamic objectivity</span></span> offers an alternative stance, one that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">draws upon </span></span>the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">ebb and flow</span></span> (rather than a rigid dichotomy) <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">between subject and object</span></span>. While dynamic objectivity, which "actively draws on the commonality between mind and nature as a resource for understanding," is rooted in a feminist psychoanalytic perspective, it is similar to Sylvester's postmodern feminist notion of "empathic cooperation."22 I return to these ideas toward the end of this article in order to draw out the possibilities of Earth remote sensing informed by feminist insights. With respect to issues of objectivity, one striking aspect of remote sensing of the environment is indeed its very remoteness. In a sense, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">satellite</span></span>-generated <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">photographs of the earth represent the ultimate subject/object dichotomy</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Space technology offers the tantalizing prospect of being able to leave the earth in order to get a better view-the ultimate</span></span> Archimedean <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">vantage point</span></span>. Rather than being embedded participants in the reality depicted, Earth system <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">scientists become disengaged observers of that reality.</span></span>23 <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Thus, according to the celebratory discourse, remote sensing is "building a valid picture of the earth</span></span>" <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">for the first time</span></span>.24 <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Presumably this picture is "valid" because it is drawn from huge quantities of objective, remotely acquired information</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It is a picture that privileges knowledge derived from abstract science over knowledge derived from lived experience. </span></span>The main elements of a spaceborne remote sensing system are "spacecraft, instruments, modeling/systems engineering, and data processing,"25 <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">elements </span></span>that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">give primacy to an expert structure comprised</span></span> primarily <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">of white men in affluent societies</span></span>. To the question, "<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Who shall be designated as reliable environmental narrators</span></span>?"Earth system <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">science answers</span></span>, "<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Scientists with professional credentials</span></span> in physics, chemistry, and computer sciences-particularly those whose work is most distant from the everyday lived experience of poor people and most women." Whenever quantifiability monopolizes the mantle of legitimacy, qualititative values are given short shrift, so that <span class="Underline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">even if</span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> satellite data are supplemented with "ground truth," the privileging of abstract decontextualized data is likely to <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">devalue other approaches</span> to knowledge</span></span>.26 In particular, as a male-dominated activity, it may reinforce the division of labor that Joni Seager suggests permeates environmental politics: Women care about the environment and men think about controversies to become more common if research agendas and environmental data continue to be dominated by industrialized countries.


===Environment=== 


<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 19px;">**The affirmatives environment scenarios are grounded in a will to control that is a violent tool of modernity**</span>
**Litfin 97**—Department of Political Science, U Washington. PhD, pol sci, UCLA. (Karen, The Gendered Eye in the Sky, Frontiers: A Journal of Women Studies, Vol. 18, No. 2, Intersections of Feminisms and Environmentalisms (1997), pp. 26-47, JSTOR, AMiles)

Feminist analysis suggests that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the </span></span>practical <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">inspiration behind the global view is the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">managerial impulse</span></span></span>, which brings us to the sixth assumption implicit in the remote sensing project. In the discourse surrounding global <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">environmental</span></span> monitoring <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">programs </span></span>like the USGCRP and the WCRP, terms like "managing the planet" and "global management" abound.57 The "blue marble" <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">image fosters the notion that the earth is manageable</span></span>. Talk of management is so ubiquitous, and the connotation of orderly administration so seemingly innocuous, that gaining a critical perspective on it requires a great effort. Yet the matter is not particularly complex: To manage means to control, to handle, to direct, to be in charge. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The</span></span> remote sensing <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">project functions simultaneously as symptom, expression, and reinforcement of modernity's dream of knowledge as power. The drive to gain "objective" knowledge about the earth by maximizing the actual and felt distance between subject and object,</span></span> I have argued above, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">fundamental to androcentric modernity</span>. </span></span>The planetary gaze, relying on cameras collecting data at various wavelengths to inform us about the earth through colorcoded computer simulations, is fundamentally a visual project. As ecofeminist writer Yaakov Jerome Garb shows, drawing upon feminist philosophy and the work of classicist Eric Havelock, vision has been deemed the cardinal sense in Western thinking."5O8 f all of our senses, vision requirest he least engagement; the advantage lies in separation rather than closeness. The photograph, and most especially that of the earth from space, "places the final seal on the disengagement from participation that vision allows, on the standing back so that subject views object across a void. It transforms the external world into a spectacle, a commodity, a manipulable package ... [through] the predatory nature of the camera." The miniaturization of the earth made possible by satellite photography appeals to the managerial impulse; the "blue-and-white Christmas ornament" can be "managed" far more easily that a world of 5.5 billion people and thousands of cultures. The distinctive combination of will-to-power and the sense of the earth's fragility that typifies the remote sensing project is expressed in the words of astronaut "Buzz" Aldrin: "The earth was eventually so small I could blot it out of the universe by holding up my thumb."60 From space, the ultimate domination of the earth, or at least the illusion ofit, becomes possible. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">While it is the earth that is objectified by the planetary gaze, ultimately "managing planet earth" will mean controlling human behavior, not the earth itself. Ecosystems will respond in various ways to changes in human behavior, but they will only be vicariously "managed." It is people, even as they are rendered invisible by the planetary gaze, who will be managed</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The science and technology of remote sensing perpetuate the knowledge/power nexus with respect not only to human domination of nature, but also to social control. </span></span>Thus, the six assumptions implicit in the project of global environmental monitoring by satellite turn out to be plagued with internal inconsistencies, parochial biases, and moral difficulties. Neither the science nor the technology of Earth remote sensing is neutral. The vast quantities of data generated by satellites are unlikely to lead to either scientific certainty or rational policy. Indeed, EOS technology, at least as presently constituted, seems to reinforce the drive to industrialization and the interrogatory approach to nature that lie at the heart of modernity. The <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">global view</span></span> that it purports to provide <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">may become a totalizing perspective that omits human agency and substitutes the vantage point of a technical elite for the collective experiences of the diversity of human beings.</span></span> EOS <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">technology</span></span>, like other photographic technologies, is <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">a voyeuristic endeavor that maximizes the distance between subject and object</span></span>-in this case, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">between the observing human and Earth's dynamic processes.</span></span> Finally, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the language of planetary management that pervades discussions of EOS suggests that the disciplinary power inherent in the managerial impulse is at the heart of the remote sensing project.</span></span>

===Opop=== 


**Urban, women’s studies instructor, 1**—graduate student in political science at Northern Arizona University and a graduate instructor in the Department of Political Science and the Women’s Studies Department (Jessica, Constructing Blame: Overpopulation, Environmental Security and International Relations, August 2001, http://www.wid.msu.edu/resources/papers/pdf/WP273.pdf, AMiles)

While the debates surrounding population growth in the field of International Relations (as well as the Development field) may seem merely academic to some, population is a central issue within the emerging paradigm of environmental security, and these debates themselves have a profound influence on international and domestic policy and practice. A clear understanding of the assumptions associated with the population debates is essential if one is to offer <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">more than band-aid solutions to environmental destruction</span>, and if one is to avoid the perpetuation of racism, ethnocentrism, sexism and classism. Moreover, tracing the population debates allows for an illustration of the enemy-creation process characteristic of IR – environmental security included – and provides foundation for the manner by which issues of population are treated in both mainstream environmental security and US media discourse. Therefore, I discuss some of the arguments associated with three of the primary approaches to issues of population in IR: 1) Malthusian/neo-Malthusian; 2) cornucopian; and 3) distributionist and/or left-feminist approaches. I will then link these debates, as well as my analytical framework, to mainstream environmental security discourse and mainstream media discourse as they relate to population, in order to illustrate the utilization of race, class, gender and nation in the construction of environmental security concerns. Malthus and the Repackaging of Malthus Despite his revisions in 1803, the “Principle of Population” by Thomas Malthus (1798) continues as a foundational work for the Western population paradigm. The tenets and assumptions associated with his work, albeit repackaged, continue to inform the contemporary population paradigm within which population control as a “major international development strategy” dates back to the end of the WWII, although its ideological origins date back to the 19th and early 20th centuries (Hartmann 1995:93). The propositions advanced by Malthus are quick, easy to follow formulations based on the assumption that, while food production increases arithmetically, population increases exponentially. Given the unyielding passion of the sexes, population will continue to grow, eventually outstripping food supplies. Therefore, Malthus originally spoke out against “Poor Laws” and advocated instead “benign neglect” and natural checks on population growth as for Malthus, addressing the problem of poverty through aid/charity would only make the problem worse. Garret Hardin (1998 and 1980) adopted many of the Malthus’ arguments and is perhaps best known for “The Tragedy of the Commons” and “Lifeboat Ethics: A Malthusian View” (originally written in 1968 and 1974 respectively). Hardin also assumes resources to be finite and that the unrestrained “freedom to breed” will eventually out-strip the world’s resources. Hardin’s “Tragedy of the Commons” metaphor hinges upon his belief that lands held in common in medieval and post-medieval England were destroyed via overpopulation and thus, over-use, given man’s inherent selfishness.9 Hardin also targets population density as the cause of pollution and emphasizes private property laws as one solution to the destruction of the Commons (Hardin 1998). Perhaps more important, Hardin assumes that “over-breeding” results from a lack of conscience and morality. Hardin thus advocates mutual coercion “agreed upon by the majority of the people affected” (Hardin 1998:45). For Hardin, injustice to some is preferable to the destruction of the Commons because the “freedom to breed will bring ruin to us all” (Hardin 1998:47). The “Lifeboat Ethics” metaphor is also compelling in its simplicity and advances a similarly pessimistic view of the consequences of “over-breeding.” It suggests that other communities, who have run roughshod over the carrying capacities of their own countries, want to migrate to “our” lifeboat for sanctuary. The increased number of bodies will then sink our own lifeboat. Therefore, we must save ourselves by denying them access (Hardin 1980). The arguments featured in the ad from the Balance- Activist noted in the introduction to this paper are based precisely on Hardin’s lifeboat metaphor. Like those of Malthus, the arguments advanced by Hardin remain foundational to the contemporary population paradigm. As Feeny et. al. explain, the conclusions drawn by Hardin have reached the “status of scientific law” and are standard fare within environmental studies, resource science and economics (and their respective textbooks) and are used routinely in resource-management policy formulation (Feeny et. al. 1998:55-56). Paul Ehrlich (1971) is perhaps the most well known author associated with neo-Malthusian pessimism. His “population bomb” metaphor is also based on the assumption that the world has a limited resource base, and population growth will exceed food production capacities. Unrestrained population growth is to blame for hunger and environmental degradation and deteriorating quality of life in general. Admittedly, Paul and Anne Ehrlich, along with Gretchen Daily (1993), present a slightly more nuanced discussion of overpopulation in their piece “Food Security, Population and Environment” than in Ehrlich’s (1971) Population Bomb. Here, they discuss issues of over-consumption and unequal access to food and other resources. The authors nevertheless maintain their primary argument that the provision of a minimal diet for all will be hindered by “growing population-related stresses on the world’s finite food production systems” (Ehrlich et. al. 1993:4). Thus, while Malthus is slightly repackaged in this work of the Ehrlichs, the central message remains the same: Overpopulation is the root cause of hunger and environmental degradation. Furthermore, for this school of thought, overpopulation is not necessarily characteristic of the North but the global South, for as the authors also note, “indeed, the future world food situation may be better represented by Rwanda than by Iowa” (Ehrlich et. al. 1993:23). This argument provides another glimpse into the enemy-creation process I have mentioned; blame for environmental destruction, conflict and a host of social ills for the US is placed squarely on the doorstep of the so-called Third World. The solution to the food/environment/population crisis for pessimists lies in reducing human fertility and halting population growth “as soon as humanly possible” with the implication that population control policies are the best way to proceed – although attention to the importance of expanded food production is not absent in Ehrlich’s work (Ehrlich et. al. 1993:24-25). As Hartmann (1999a) explains, however, US foreign assistance in the reproductive health field is grounded in the neo-Malthusian understandings of overpopulation – fertility reduction is given the pride of place in policy. For instance, according to the Center for Reproductive Law and Policy, USAID still funds maternal-health services less than it does family planning services (Hartmann 1999a:1) and attention to women’s overall health is routinely sacrificed in the name of fertility reduction. The adoption of neo-Malthusianism in international responses to development, hunger and environmental degradation is also illustrated in preparations for the Rio Conference (UN Conference on Environment and Development) in 1992, and in those for the Cairo Conference (UN International Conference on Population and Development) in 1994. During both, proponents of population control “greened” the population agenda by linking it to environmental destruction – a movement substantiated by the USAID declaration that overpopulation poses a key “strategic threat” to the environment as well as democracy (Silliman 1999:x). As another example, the World Bank often requires that Third World states accept/promote strong population-control measures in order to receive structural adjustment loans (Bandarage 1999:33). Neo-Malthusianism is a compelling framework through which to explain ecological destruction, hunger and poverty around the world. It is relatively simple to follow, and, more importantly, this perspective (and policy options created under this perspective) essentially negates the responsibility of the North with respect to colonialism, neocolonialism and related acts of exploitation. This includes actions against the Global South and “other” peoples within the North that fostered massive hunger, poverty and environmental damage, for instance, the policies and practices associated with Manifest Destiny and the “dirty wars” in Central America during the 1980s. Moreover, neo-Malthusians often ignore or downplay the role of over-consumption and waste among the wealthy Northern elite and their role in creating ecological damage. Further, upper-class, white Northerners are rarely targeted for population control to save the environment. Instead, pessimists speak of the lack of conscience and knowledge among “others” who, apparently, are not “fit to breed.” Neo-Malthusian pessimism relies upon and <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">reinforces racist, sexist and classist constructions of the “other</span>” and fails to challenge entrenched assumptions related to the division of power, wealth and worth within the world system. In sum, rather than communism in “our” backyard, now “over-breeding” in – and immigration from – “backwards” countries is an imminent security threat to the US.

===Econ=== 



**Economic threat predictions are a means of political ordering under the guise if military subjugation—all who don’t conform to the economic order are slaughtered**
**Neocleous 8** [Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, Critique of Security, p95-]
In other words, the new <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">international order moved </span></span>very <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">quickly to reassert the connection between economic and national security: the commitment to the former was simultaneously a commitment to the latter</span></span>, and vice versa. As the doctrine of national security was being born, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the major player on the international stage would </span></span>aim to <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">use</span></span> perhaps its most important power of all – its <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">economic strength </span></span>– in order <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">to re-order the world</span></span>. And this re-ordering was conducted through the idea of ‘economic security’.99 Despite the fact that ‘econ omic security’ would never be formally deﬁned beyond ‘economic order’ or ‘economic well-being’,100 the signiﬁcant conceptual consistency between <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">economic security</span></span> and liberal order-building also <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">had a strategic ideological role</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">By playing on notions of ‘economic well-being’, economic security seemed to emphasise</span></span> economic and thus ‘<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">human’ needs over military ones</span></span>. The <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">reshaping </span></span>of global capital, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">international order</span></span> and the exercise of state power could <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">thus look decidedly liberal and ‘humanitarian’</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This appearance helped <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">co-opt the liberal Left into the process</span></span></span> and, of course, played on individual desire for personal security by using notions such as ‘personal freedom’ and‘social equality’.101 Marx and Engels once highlighted the historical role of the bour geoisie in shaping the world according to its own interests. The need of a constantly expanding market for its products chases the bourgeoisie over the whole surface of the globe. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It must nestle everywhere, settle everywhere, establish connections everywhere</span></span> . . . <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It compels all nations, <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">on pain of extinction</span>, to adopt the bourgeois mode of production</span></span>; it compels them . . . to become bourgeois in themselves. In one word, it creates a world after its own image.102 In the second half of the twentieth century <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">this ability to ‘batter down all Chinese walls’ would still rest heavily on the logic of capital, but would also come about in part under the guise of security. The </span></span>whole <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">world became a garden to be cultivated</span></span> – to be recast according to the logic of security. In the space of ﬁfteen years the concept ‘economic security’ had moved from connoting insurance policies for working people to the desire to shape the world in a capitalist fashion – and back again. In fact, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it has</span></span> constantly shifted between these registers ever since, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">being used for the constant reshaping of world order and resulting in a comprehensive level of <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">intervention</span> and policing <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">all over the globe</span>. Global order has come to be fabricated</span></span> and administered <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">according to a security doctrine underpinned by the logic of capital</span></span> accumulation and a bourgeois conception of order. By incorporating within it a particular vision of economic order, the concept of national security implies the interrelatedness of so many different social, econ omic, political and military factors that more or less any development anywhere can be said to impact on liberal order in general and America’s core interests in particular. Not only could bourgeois Europe be recast around the regime of capital, but so too could the whole international order as capital not only nestled, settled and established connections, but also‘secured’ everywhere. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Security politics thereby became the basis of a distinctly liberal philosophy of global ‘intervention’</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">fusing global issues of economic management with domestic policy formations in an <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">ambitious</span> and frequently <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">violent strategy</span></span></span>. Here lies the Janus-faced character of American foreign policy.103 One face is the ‘good liberal cop’: friendly, prosperous and democratic, sending money and help around the globe when problems emerge, so that the world’s nations are shown how they can alleviate their misery and perhaps even enjoy some prosperity. The other face is the ‘bad liberal cop’: should one of these nations decide, either through parliamentary procedure, demands for self-determination or violent revolution to address its own social problems in ways that conﬂict with the interests of capital and the bourgeois concept of liberty, then the authoritarian dimension of liberalism shows its face; <span class="Underline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">the ‘liberal moment’ becomes the moment of violence.</span> <span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This </span></span>Janus-faced <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">character has meant that through the mandate of security the US</span></span>, as the national security state par excellence, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">has seen ﬁt to either overtly or covertly re-order the affairs of myriads of nations – those ‘rogue’ or ‘outlaw’ states on the ‘wrong side of history</span></span>’.104 ‘Extrapolating the ﬁgures as best we can’, one <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">CIA agent commented</span></span> in 1991,‘<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">there have been about 3,000 major covert operations and over 10,000 minor operations – all illegal, and all designed to disrupt, destabilize, or modify the activities of other countries’, adding that ‘every covert operation has been rationalized in terms of U.S. national security’</span></span>.105 These would include ‘interventions’ in Greece, Italy, France, Turkey, Macedonia, the Ukraine, Cambodia, Indonesia, China, Korea, Burma, Vietnam, Thailand, Ecuador, Chile, Argentina, Brazil, Guatemala, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Uruguay, Bolivia, Grenada, Paraguay, Nicaragua, El Salvador, the Philippines, Honduras, Haiti, Venezuela, Panama, Angola, Ghana, Congo, South Africa, Albania, Lebanon, Grenada, Libya, Somalia, Ethiopia, Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, and many more, and many of these more than once. Next up are the ‘60 or more’ countries identiﬁed as the bases of ‘terror cells’ by Bush in a speech on 1 June 2002.106 <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The methods used have varied: most popular has been the favoured technique of liberal security – ‘making the economy scream’ via controls, interventions and the imposition of neo-liberal regulations. But a wide range of other techniques have been used: terror bombing; subversion; rigging elections; the use of the CIA’s ‘Health Alteration Committee’ whose mandate was to ‘incapacitate’ foreign ofﬁcials; drug-trafﬁcking;107 and the sponsorship of terror groups, counterinsurgency agencies, death squads.</span></span> Unsurprisingly, some plain old fascist groups and parties have been co-opted into the project, from <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the attempt at reviving the remnants of the Nazi collaborationist Vlasov Army for use against the USSR</span></span> to the use of fascist forces to undermine democratically elected governments, such as in Chile; indeed, one of the reasons <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">fascism ﬂowed into Latin America </span></span>was <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">because of the ideology of national security.</span></span>108 Concomitantly, ‘national security’ has meant a policy of non-intervention where satisfactory ‘security partnerships’ could be established with certain authoritarian and military regimes: Spain under Franco, the Greek junta, Chile, Iraq, Iran, Korea, Indonesia, Cambodia, Taiwan, South Vietnam, the Philippines, Turkey, the ﬁve Central Asian republics that emerged with the break-up of the USSR, and China. Either way<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, the whole world was to be included in the new‘secure’ global liberal order</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">The result has been the slaughter of untold numbers</span></span>. John Stock well, who was part of a CIA project in Angola which led to the deaths of over 20,000 people, puts it like this: Coming to grips with these U.S./CIA activities in broad numbers and ﬁguring out how many people have been killed in the jungles of Laos or the hills of Nicaragua is very difﬁcult. But, adding them up as best we can, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">we come up with </span></span>a ﬁgure of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">six million people killed – and this is a minimum</span></span> ﬁgure. Included are: one million killed in the Korean War, two million killed in the Vietnam War, 800,000 killed in Indonesia, one million in Cambodia, 20,000 killed in Angola – the operation I was part of – and 22,000 killed in Nicaragua.109 Note that the six million is a minimum ﬁgure, that he omits to mention rather a lot of other interventions, and that he was writing in 1991. <span class="Underline"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">This is security as the slaughter bench of history</span></span>. All of this has been more than conﬁrmed by events in the twentyﬁrst 

century: in a speech on 1 June 2002, which became the basis of the ofﬁcial National Security Strategy of the United Statesin September of that year, President <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Bush reiterated that the US has a unilateral right to overthrow any government </span></span>in the world<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, and launched a new round of slaughtering</span></span> to prove it. While much has been made about the supposedly ‘new’ doctrine of preemption in the early twenty-ﬁrst century, the policy of preemption has a long history as part of national security doctrine. The United States has long maintained the option of pre-emptive actions to counter a sufﬁcient threat to our national security. The greater the threat, the greater is the risk of inaction – and the more compelling the case for taking anticipatory action to defend ourselves . . . To forestall or prevent such hostile acts by our adver saries, the United States will, if necessary, act pre emptively.110 In other words, the security policy of the world’s only superpower in its current ‘<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">war on terror’ is still underpinned by a notion of liberal order-building based on a certain vision of ‘economic order’.</span></span> The National Security Strategy concerns itself with a ‘single sustainable model for national success’ based on ‘political and economic liberty’, with whole sections devoted to the security beneﬁts of ‘economic liberty’, and the beneﬁts to liberty of the security strategy proposed.111 <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Economic security</span></span> (that is, ‘capitalist accumulation’) <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in the guise of ‘national security’ is now used as the justiﬁcation for all kinds of ‘intervention’</span></span>, still conducted where necessary in <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">alliance with fascists</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">gangsters </span></span>and drug cartels, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and the proliferation of ‘national security’ type regimes has been the result.</span></span> So while the national security state was in one sense a structural bi-product of the US’s place in global capitalism, it was also vital to the fabrication of an international order founded on the power of capital. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">National security</span></span>, in effect, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">became the perfect strategic tool for <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">landscaping the human garden</span>.</span></span>112 This was to also have huge domestic consequences, as the idea of con tainment would also come to reshape the American social order, helping fabricate a security apparatus intimately bound up with national identity and thus the politics of loyalty.


=Psychoanalysis= 
==1NC K== 

Security is a psychological construct—the aff’s scenarios for conflict are products of paranoia that project our violent impulses onto the other 
Mack 91 – Doctor of Psychiatry and a professor at Harvard University (John, “The Enemy System” http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/eJournal/article.asp?id=23 *Gender modified)

The threat of nuclear annihilation has stimulated us to try to understand what it is about (hu)mankind that has led to such self-destroying behavior. Central to this inquiry is an exploration of the adversarial relationships between ethnic or national groups. It is out of such enmities that war, including nuclear war should it occur, has always arisen. Enmity between groups of people stems from the interaction of psychological, economic, and cultural elements. These include fear and hostility (which are often closely related), competition over perceived scarce resources,[3] the need for individuals to identify with a large group or cause,[4] a tendency to disclaim and assign elsewhere responsibility for unwelcome impulses and intentions, and a peculiar susceptibility to emotional manipulation by leaders who play upon our more savage inclinations in the name of national security or the national interest. A full understanding of the "enemy system"[3] requires insights from many specialities, including psychology, anthropology, history, political science, and the humanities. In their statement on violence[5] twenty social and behavioral scientists, who met in Seville, Spain, to examine the roots of war, declared that there was no scientific basis for regarding (hu)man(s) as an innately aggressive animal, inevitably committed to war. The Seville statement implies that we have real choices. It also points to a hopeful paradox of the nuclear age: threat of nuclear war may have provoked our capacity for fear-driven polarization but at the same time it has inspired unprecedented efforts towards cooperation and settlement of differences without violence. The Real and the Created Enemy Attempts to explore the psychological roots of enmity are frequently met with responses on the following lines: "I can accept psychological explanations of things, but my enemy is real. The Russians [or Germans, Arabs, Israelis, Americans] are armed, threaten us, and intend us harm. Furthermore, there are real differences between us and our national interests, such as competition over oil, land, or other scarce resources, and genuine conflicts of values between our two nations. It is essential that we be strong and maintain a balance or superiority of military and political power, lest the other side take advantage of our weakness". This argument does not address the distinction between the enemy threat and one's own contribution to that threat-by distortions of perception, provocative words, and actions. In short, the enemy is real, but we have not learned to understand how we have created that enemy, or how the threatening image we hold of the enemy relates to its actual intentions. "We never see our enemy's motives and we never labor to assess his will, with anything approaching objectivity".[6] Individuals may have little to do with the choice of national enemies. Most Americans, for example, know only what has been reported in the mass media about the Soviet Union. We are largely unaware of the forces that operate within our institutions, affecting the thinking of our leaders and ourselves, and which determine how the Soviet Union will be represented to us. Ill-will and a desire for revenge are transmitted from one generation to another, and we are not taught to think critically about how our assigned enemies are selected for us. In the relations between potential adversarial nations there will have been, inevitably, real grievances that are grounds for enmity. But the attitude of one people towards another is usually determined by leaders who manipulate the minds of citizens for domestic political reasons which are generally unknown to the public. As Israeli sociologist Alouph Haveran has said, in times of conflict between nations historical accuracy is the first victim.[8] The Image of the Enemy and How We Sustain It Vietnam veteran William Broyles wrote: "War begins in the mind, with the idea of the enemy."[9] But to sustain that idea in war and peacetime a nation's leaders must maintain public support for the massive expenditures that are required. Studies of enmity have revealed susceptibilities, though not necessarily recognized as such by the governing elites that provide raw material upon which the leaders may draw to sustain the image of an enemy.[7,10] Freud[11] in his examination of mass psychology identified the proclivity of individuals to surrender personal responsibility to the leaders of large groups. This surrender takes place in both totalitarian and democratic societies, and without coercion. Leaders can therefore designate outside enemies and take actions against them with little opposition. Much further research is needed to understand the psychological mechanisms that impel individuals to kill or allow killing in their name, often with little questioning of the morality or consequences of such actions. Philosopher and psychologist Sam Keen asks why it is that in virtually every war "The enemy is seen as less than human? He's faceless. He's an animal"." Keen tries to answer his question: "The image of the enemy is not only the soldier's most powerful weapon; it is society's most powerful weapon. It enables people en masse to participate in acts of violence they would never consider doing as individuals".[12] National leaders become skilled in presenting the adversary in dehumanized images. The mass media, taking their cues from the leadership, contribute powerfully to the process.

Their paranoid projections guarantee extinction—it’s try or die 
Hollander 3 – professor of Latin American history and women's studies at California State University (Nancy, "A Psychoanalytic Perspective on the Politics of Terror:In the Aftermath of 9/11" www.estadosgerais.org/mundial_rj/download/FLeitor_NHollander_ingl.pdf)

In this sense, then, 9-11 has symbolically constituted a relief in the sense of a decrease in the persecutory anxiety provoked by living in a culture undergoing a deterioration from within. The implosion reflects the economic and social trends I described briefly above and has been manifest in many related symptoms, including the erosion of family and community, the corruption of government in league with the wealthy and powerful, the abandonment of working people by profit-driven corporations going international, urban plight, a drug-addicted youth, a violence addicted media reflecting and motivating an escalating real-world violence, the corrosion of civic participation by a decadent democracy, a spiritually bereft culture held prisoner to the almighty consumer ethic, racial discrimination, misogyny, gaybashing, growing numbers of families joining the homeless, and environmental devastation. Was this not lived as a kind of societal suicide--an ongoing assault, an aggressive attack—against life and emotional well-being waged from within against the societal self? In this sense, 9/11 permitted a respite from the sense of internal decay by inadvertently stimulating a renewed vitality via a reconfiguration of political and psychological forces: tensions within this country—between the “haves-mores” and “have-lesses,” as well as between the defenders and critics of the status quo, yielded to a wave of nationalism in which a united people--Americans all--stood as one against external aggression. At the same time, the generosity, solidarity and selfsacrifice expressed by Americans toward one another reaffirmed our sense of ourselves as capable of achieving the “positive” depressive position sentiments of love and empathy. Fractured social relations were symbolically repaired. The enemy- -the threat to our integrity as a nation and, in D. W. Winnicott’s terms, to our sense of going on being--was no longer the web of complex internal forces so difficult to understand and change, but a simple and identifiable enemy from outside of us, clearly marked by their difference, their foreignness and their uncanny and unfathomable “uncivilized” pre-modern character. The societal relief came with the projection of aggressive impulses onto an easily dehumanized external enemy, where they could be justifiably attacked and destroyed. This country’s response to 9/11, then, in part demonstrates how persecutory anxiety is more easily dealt with in individuals and in groups when it is experienced as being provoked from the outside rather than from internal sources. As Hanna Segal9 has argued (IJP, 1987), groups often tend to be narcissistic, self-idealizing, and paranoid in relation to other groups and to shield themselves from knowledge about the reality of their own aggression, which of necessity is projected into an enemy-- real or imagined--so that it can be demeaned, held in contempt and then attacked. In this regard, 9/11 permitted a new discourse to arise about what is fundamentally wrong in the world: indeed, the anti-terrorism rhetoric and policies of the U.S. government functioned for a period to overshadow the anti-globalization movement that has identified the fundamental global conflict to be between on the one hand the U.S. and other governments in the First World, transnational corporations, and powerful international financial institutions, and on the other, workers’ struggles, human rights organizations and environmental movements throughout the world. The new discourse presents the fundamental conflict in the world as one between civilization and fundamentalist terrorism. But this “civilization” is a wolf in sheep’s clothing, and those who claim to represent it reveal the kind of splitting Segal describes: a hyperbolic idealization of themselves and their culture and a projection of all that is bad, including the consequences of the terrorist underbelly of decades long U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East and Asia, onto the denigrated other, who must be annihilated. The U.S. government, tainted for years by its ties to powerful transnational corporate interests, has recreated itself as the nationalistic defender of the American people. In the process, patriotism has kidnapped citizens’ grief and mourning and militarism has high jacked people’s fears and anxieties, converting them into a passive consensus for an increasingly authoritarian government’s domestic and foreign policies. The defensive significance of this new discourse has to do with another theme related to death anxiety as well: the threat of species annihilation that people have lived with since the U.S. dropped atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Segal argues that the leaders of the U.S. as well as other countries with nuclear capabilities, have disavowed their own aggressive motivations as they developed10 weapons of mass destruction. The distortion of language throughout the Cold War, such as “deterrence,” “flexible response,” Mutual Assured Destruction”, “rational nuclear war,” “Strategic Defense Initiative” has served to deny the aggressive nature of the arms race (p. 8) and “to disguise from ourselves and others the horror of a nuclear war and our own part in making it possible or more likely” (pp. 8-9). Although the policy makers’ destructiveness can be hidden from their respective populations and justified for “national security” reasons, Segal believes that such denial only increases reliance on projective mechanisms and stimulates paranoia. 

Vote negative to interrogate cycles of enemy creation—this can create a fissure in dominant narratives that make war inevitable 
Byles 3—English, U Cyprus (Joanna, Psychoanalysis and War: The Superego and Projective Identification, http://www.clas.ufl.edu/ipsa/journal/articles/art_byles01.shtml, AMiles)

It is here of course that language plays an important role in imagining the other, the other within the self, and the other as self, as well as the enormously influential visual images each group can have of the other. In the need to emphasize similarity in difference, both verbal and visual metaphor can play a meaningful role in creating a climate for peaceful understanding, and this is where literature, especially the social world of the drama and of film, but also the more private world of poetry, can be immensely significant. Of course not all literature is equally transparent. In conclusion, war, in all its manifestations, is a phenomenon put into action by individuals who have been politicized as a group to give and receive violent death, to appropriate the enemy's land, homes, women, children, and goods, and perhaps to lose their own. As we have seen, in wartime the splitting of the self and other into friend and enemy enormously relieves the normal psychic tension caused by human ambivalence when love and hate find two separate objects of attention. Hence the .soldier's and terrorist's willingness to sacrifice her/his life for "a just cause," which may be a Nation, a Group, or a Leader with whom he has close emotional ties and identity. I n this way s/he does not feel guilty: the destructive impulses, mobilised by her/his own superego, together with that of the social superego, have projected the guilt s/he might feel at killing strangers onto the enemy. In other words, the charging of the enemy with guilt by which the superego of the State mobilizes the individual's superego seems to be of fundamental importance in escaping the sense of guilt which war provokes in those engaged in the killing; yet the mobilization of superego activities can still involve the individual's self-punitive mechanisms, even though most of his/her guilt has been projected onto the enemy in the name of his own civilization and culture. As we all know, this guilt can become a problem at the end of a war, leading to varying degrees of misery and mental illness. For some, the killing of an enemy and a stranger cannot be truly mourned, and there remains a blank space, an irretrievable act or event to be lived through over and over again. This dilemma is poignantly expressed in Wilfred Owen's World War One poem "Strange Meeting" the final lines of which read as follows: I am the enemy you killed, my friend. I knew you in this dark: for so you frowned Yesterday through me as you jabbed and killed. I parried; but my hands were loath and cold. Let us sleep now. ... (Owen 126) The problem for us today is how to create the psychological climate of opinion, a mentality, that will reject war, genocide, and terrorism as viable solutions to internal and external situations of conflict; to recognize our projections for what they are: dangerously irresponsible psychic acts based on superego hatred and violence. We must challenge the way in which the State superego can manipulate our responses in its own interests, even take away our subjectivities. We should acknowledge and learn to displace the violence in ourselves in socially harmless ways, getting rid of our fears and anxieties of the other and of difference by relating and identifying with the other and thus creating the serious desire to live together in a peaceful world. What seems to be needed is for the superego to regain its developmental role of mitigating omniscient protective identification by ensuring an intact, integrated object world, a world that will be able to contain unconscious fears, hatred, and anxieties without the need for splitting and projection. As Bion has pointed out, omnipotence replaces thinking and omniscience replaces learning. We must learn to link our internal and external worlds so as to act as a container of the other's fears and anxieties, and thus in turn to encourage the other to reciprocate as a container of our hatreds and fears. If war represents cultural formations that in turn represent objectifications of the psyche via the super-ego of the individual and of the State, then perhaps we can reformulate these psychic social mechanisms of projection and superego aggression. Here, that old peace-time ego and the reparative component of the individual and State superego will have to play a large part. The greater the clash of cultural formations for example, Western Modernism and Islamic Fundamentalism the more urgent the need. "The knowledge now most worth having" is an authentic way of internalizing what it is we understand about war and international terrorism that will liberate us from the history of our collective traumatic past and the imperatives it has imposed on us. The inner psychic world of the individual has an enormously important adaptive role to play here in developing mechanisms of protective identification not as a means of damaging and destroying the other, but as a means of empathy, of containing the other, and in turn being contained. These changes may be evolutionary rather than revolutionary, gradual ratherthan speedy. Peace and dare I say it contentment are not just an absence of war, but a state of mind. Furthermore, we should learn not to project too much into our group, and our nation, for this allows the group to tyrannize us, so that we follow like lost sheep. But speaking our minds takes courage because groups do not like open dissenters. These radical psychic changes may be evolutionary rather than revolutionary, gradual rather than speedy; however, my proposition that understanding the other so that we can reduce her/his motivation to kill requires urgent action. Peace is not just an absence of war, but a state of mind and, most importantly, a way of thinking.

==2NC Impact Calc== 

try or die 
Stavrakakis 99 – department of government at the University of Essex, director of ideology and discourse analysis program (Yannis, Lacan and the Political, p.99-105)

What I will try to do in this chapter is, first of all, to demonstrate the deeply problematic nature of utopian politics. Simply put, my argument will be that every utopian fantasy construction needs a ‘scapegoat’ in order to constitute itself—the Nazi utopian fantasy and the production of the ‘Jew’ is a good example, especially as pointed out in .Zizek’s analysis. Every utopian fantasy produces its reverse and calls for its elimination. Put another way, the beatific side of fantasy is coupled in utopian constructions with a horrific side, a paranoid need for a stigmatised scapegoat. The naivety—and also the danger—of utopian structures is revealed when the realisation of this fantasy is attempted. It is then that we are brought close to the frightening kernel of the real: stigmatisation is followed by extermination. This is not an accident. It is inscribed in the structure of utopian constructions; it seems to be the way all fantasy constructions work. If in almost all utopian visions, violence and antagonism are eliminated, if utopia is based on the expulsion and repression of violence (this is its beatific side) this is only because it owes its own creation to violence; it is sustained and fed by violence (this is its horrific side). This repressed moment of violence resurfaces, as Marin points out, in the difference inscribed in the name utopia itself (Marin, 1984:110). What we shall argue is that it also resurfaces in the production of the figure of an enemy. To use a phrase enunciated by the utopianist Fourier, what is ‘driven out through the door comes back through the window’ (is not this a ‘precursor’ of Lacan’s dictum that ‘what is foreclosed in the symbolic reappears in the real’?.VII:131). The work of Norman Cohn and other historians permits the articulation of a genealogy of this manichean, equivalential way of understanding the world, from the great witch-hunt up to modern anti-Semitism, and Lacanian theory can provide valuable insights into any attempt to understand the logic behind this utopian operation.here the approach to fantasy developed in Chapter 2 will further demonstrate its potential in analysing our political experience. In fact, from the time of his unpublished seminar on The Formations of the Unconscious, Lacan identified the utopian dream of a perfectly functioning society as a highly problematic area (seminar of 18 June 1958). In order to realise the problematic character of the utopian operation it is necessary to articulate a genealogy of this way of representing and making sense of the world. The work of Norman Cohn seems especially designed to serve this purpose. What is most important is that in Cohn.s schema we can encounter the three basic characteristics of utopian fantasies that we have already singled out: first, their link to instances of disorder, to the element of negativity. Since human experience is a continuous battle with the unexpected there is always a need to represent and master this unexpected, to transform disorder to order. Second, this representation is usually articulated as a total and universal representation, a promise of absolute mastery of the totality of the real, a vision of the end of history. A future utopian state is envisaged in which disorder will be totally eliminated. Third, this symbolisation produces its own remainder; there is always a certain particularity remaining outside the universal schema. It is to the existence of this evil agent, which can be easily localised, that all persisting disorder is attributed. The elimination of disorder depends then on the elimination of this group. The result is always horrible: persecution, massacres, holocausts. Needless to say, no utopian fantasy is ever realised as a result of all these ‘crimes’—as mentioned in Chapter 2, the purpose of fantasy is not to satisfy an (impossible) desire but to constitute it as such. What is of great interest for our approach is the way in which Cohn himself articulates a genealogy of the pair utopia/demonisation in his books The Pursuit of the Millennium and Europe.s Inner Demons (Cohn, 1993b, 1993c). The same applies to his book Warrant for Genocide (Cohn, 1996) which will also be implicated at a certain stage in our analysis. These books are concerned with the same social phenomenon, the idea of purifying humanity through the extermination of some category of human beings which are conceived as agents of corruption, disorder and evil. The contexts are, of course, different, but the urge remains the same (Cohn, 1993b:xi). All these works then, at least according to my reading, are concerned with the production of an archenemy which goes together with the utopian mentality. It could be argued that the roots of both demonisation and utopian thinking can be traced back to the shift from a cyclical to a unilinear representation of history (Cohn, 1993a:227). 6 However, we will start our reading of Cohnís work by going back to Roman civilisation. As Cohn claims, a profound demonising tendency is discernible in Ancient Rome: within the imperium, the Romans accused the Christians of cannibalism and the Jews were accused by Greeks of ritual murder and cannibalism. Yet in the ancient Roman world, although Judaism was regarded as a bizarre religion, it was nevertheless a religio licita, a religion that was officially recognised. Things were different with the newly formed Christian sect. In fact the Christian Eucharist could easily be interpreted as cannibalistic (Cohn, 1993b:8). In almost all their ways Christians ignored or even negated the fundamental convictions by which the pagan Graeco-Roman world lived. It is not at all surprising then that to the Romans they looked like a bunch of conspirators plotting to destroy society. Towards the end of the second century, according to Tertullian, it was taken as a given that the Christians are the cause of every public catastrophe, every disaster that hits the populace. If the Tiber floods or the Nile fails to, if there is a drought or an earthquake, a famine or a plague, the cry goes up at once: ‘Throw the Christians to the Lions!’. (Tertullian in Cohn, 1993b:14) This defamation of Christians that led to their exclusion from the boundaries of humanity and to their relentless persecution is a pattern that was repeated many times in later centuries, when both the persecutors and the persecuted were Christians (Cohn, 1993b:15). Bogomiles, Waldensians, the Fraticelli movement and the Cathars—all the groups appearing in Umberto Eco’s fascinating books, especially in The Name of the Rose—were later on persecuted within a similar discursive context. The same happened with the demonisation of Christians, the fantasy that led to the great witch-hunt. Again, the conditions of possibility for this demonisation can be accurately defined. First, some kind of misfortune or catastrophe had to occur, and second, there had to be someone who could be singled out as the cause of this misfortune (Cohn, 1993b:226). In Cohn’s view then, social dislocation and unrest, on the one hand, and millenarian exaltation, on the other, do overlap. When segments of the poor population were mesmerised by a prophet, their understandable desire to improve their living conditions became transfused with fantasies of a future community reborn into innocence through a final, apocalyptic massacre. The evil ones—variously identified with the Jews, the clergy or the rich—were to be exterminated; after which the Saints—i.e. the poor in question—would set up their kingdom, a realm without suffering or sin. (Cohn, 1993c:14-15) 

==2NC Structural Violence== 

The aff’s psychological obsession with war and conflict ensures structural violence
Sandy & Perkins 2 Leo R. veteran of the U.S. Navy and an active member of Veterans for Peace, Inc., co-founder of Peace Studies at Plymouth State College, Ray; Teaches philosophy at Plymouth State College, The Nature of Peace and Its Implications for Peace Education”, Online journal of peace and conflict resolution, Issue 4.2, Spring 02, http://www.trinstitute.org/ojpcr/4_2natp.htm

The peace process additionally must acknowledge and contend with its alternative -war-because of the high value status of violence. For example, while war has brought out the worst kind of behavior in humans, it has also brought out some of the best. Aside from relieving boredom and monotony, war has been shown to spawn self-sacrifice, loyalty, honor, heroism, and courage. It is well known that suicide rates decline during war. Also, war has helped to bring about significant social changes such as racial and sexual integration, freedom, democracy and a sense of national pride. Because of its apparent utilitarian value and its ability to enervate, violence has been solidly embedded in the national psyche of many countries. As a result, its elimination will be no easy feat. Nevertheless, Reardon (1988) insists that “peace is the absence of violence in all its forms --physical, social, psychological, and structural (p. 16). But this, as a definition, is unduly negative in that it fails to provide any affirmative picture of peace or its ingredients (Copi and Cohen, p. 195). Perhaps that picture must come, as O’Kane (1992) suggests, from a close examination of the “nature of causes, reasons, goals of war in order that we might ... find ways of reaching human goals without resorting to force. That process should help us “uncover” the possible conditions of Peace.” In its most myopic and limited definition, peace is the mere absence of war. O’Kane (1992) sees this definition as a “vacuous, passive, simplistic, and unresponsive escape mechanism too often resorted to in the past -without success.” This definition also commits a serious oversight: it ignores the residual feelings of mistrust and suspicion that the winners and losers of a war harbor toward each other. The subsequent suppression of mutual hostile feelings is not taken into account by those who define peace so simply. Their stance is that as long as people are not actively engaged in overt, mutual, violent, physical and destructive activity, then peace exists. This, of course, is just another way of defining cold war. In other words, this simplistic definition is too broad because it allows us to attribute the term “peace” to states of affairs that are not truly peaceful (Copi and Cohen, p. 194). Unfortunately, this definition of peace appears to be the prevailing one in the world. It is the kind of peace maintained by a “peace through strength” posture that has led to the arms race, stockpiles of nuclear weapons, and the ultimate threat of mutually assured destruction. This version of peace was defended by the “peacekeeper”--a name that actually adorns some U.S. nuclear weapons deployed since 1986.1 Also, versions of this name appear on entrances to some military bases. Keeping “peace” in this manner evokes the theme in Peggy Lee’s old song, “Is That All There is?” What this really comes down to is the idea of massive and indiscriminate killing for peace, which represents a morally dubious notion if not a fault of logic. The point here is that a “peace” which depends upon the threat and intention to kill vast numbers of human beings is hardly a stable or justifiable peace worthy of the name. Those in charge of waging war know that killing is a questionable activity. Otherwise, they would not use such euphemisms as “collateral damage” and “smart bombs” to obfuscate it. Some different types of peace One way of clearing up the confusion over terms is to define types of peace and war. Thus, there can be hot war, cold war, cold peace, and hot peace. In hot war, commonly called war, there is a condition of mutual hostility and active physical engagement through such forms as artillery, missiles, bombs, small arms fire, mortars, flamethrowers, land and sea mines, hand-to-hand combat, and the like. The aim is the destruction of the enemy or his surrender by intimidation. The object is to have a winner and loser. Nationalism reaches its zenith here. In cold war, there is mutual hostility without actual engagement. Intimidation is the sole means of preventing hot war. This condition is characterized by propaganda, war preparations, and arms races--always at the expense of human needs. During a cold war, nationalism prevails, and the object is to have a stalemate where neither side will initiate aggression--nuclear or conventional--because of the overwhelming destructive capability of the retaliatory response. In cold peace, there is almost a neutral view of a previous enemy. There is little mutual hostility but there is also a lack of mutually beneficial interactions aimed at developing trust, interdependence, and collaboration. There may be a longing for an enemy because nothing has replaced it as an object of national concern. In this situation, isolationism and nationalism occur simultaneously. There is no clear objective because there is no well-defined enemy. Perhaps the current U.S. military preoccupation with Iraq’s Saddam Hussein and the debilitating decade of sanctions against the Iraqi people are helping to relieve this enemy deficit. The notion that “there are still dangerous people in the world” is often used to advance the cause of military preparedness and at least some momentum toward a restoration of cold war thinking and behavior. The term “peace dividend” that expressed post cold war optimism is hardly verbalized anymore. Now we are (again) advancing ballistic missile defense--a variation of the Reagan Administration’ s Star Wars debacle, and an inst igator of nuclear proliferation. By contrast, hot peace involves active collaborative efforts designed to “build bridges” between and among past and present adversaries. This involves searching for common ground and the development of new non-human enemies--threats to the health and well-being of humankind and the planet.2 These new enemies could include human rights abuses, air and water pollution, dwindling energy resources, the destruction of the ozone layer, famine, poverty, and ignorance. Hot peace promotes-and, indeed, is defined by--global interdepedence, human rights, democratization, an effective United Nations, and a diminution of national sovereignty. The object is the proliferation of cooperative relations and mutually beneficial outcomes. Hot peace thinking imagines peace and the abolition of war. Another way of thinking about peace is to have it defined in negative and positive terms. Peace as the mere absence of war is what Woolman (1985) refers to as “negative peace.” This definition is based on Johan Galtung’s ideas of peace. For Galtung, negative peace is defined as a state requiring a set of social structures that provide security and protection from acts of direct physical violence committed by individuals, groups or nations. The emphasis is ...on control of violence. The main strategy is dissociation, whereby conflicting parties are separated...In general, policies based on the idea of negative peace do not deal with the causes of violence, only its manifestations. Therefore, these policies are thought to be insufficient to assure lasting conditions of peace. Indeed, by suppressing the release of tensions resulting from social conflict, negative peace efforts may actually lead to future violence of greater magnitude. (Woolman, 1985, p.8) The recent wars in the former Yugoslavia are testimony to this. The massive military machine previously provided by the U.S.S.R. put a lid on ethnic hostilities yet did nothing to resolve them thus allowing them to fester and erupt later.

Structural violence o/w
Hintjens 7 [Helen Hintjens is Lecturer in the Centre for Development Studies, University of Wales, “MDF Understanding Development Better,” http://udb.global-connections.nl/sites/udb.global-connections.nl/files/file/2923317.051%20-%20Position%20Paper%20Helen%20Hintjens.pdf]

From Johan Galtung, famous Norwegian peace ‘guru’, still alive and heads up TRANSCEND University on-line, has been working since 1960s on showing that violence is not OK. His Ghandian approach is designed to convince those who advocate violent means to restore social justice to the poor, that he as a pacifist does not turn a blind eye to social injustices and inequality. He extended therefore our understanding of what is violent, coercion, force, to include the economic and social system’s avoidable injustices, deaths, inequalities. Negative peace is the absence of justice, even if there is no war. Injustice causes structural violence to health, bodies, minds, damages people, and must therefore be resisted (non-violently). Positive peace is different from negative (unjust and hence violent) peace. Positive peace requires actively combating (struggling peacefully against) social injustices that underpin structural violence. Economic and social, political justice have to be part of peacebuilding. This is the mantra of most NGOs and even some agencies (we will look later at NGO Action Aid and DFID as examples). Discrimination has to end, so does the blatant rule of money, greater equality is vital wherever possible. All of this is the opposite of neo-liberal recipes for success, which in Holland as in Indonesia, tolerate higher and higher levels of social inequality in the name of efficiency. Structural violence kills far more people than warfare – for example one estimate in DRC is that 4 million people have been killed in war since 1998, but NGOs estimate that an additional 6 million people have died in DRC since then, from disease, displacement and hunger, bringing the total to an unthinkable 10 million of 90 million est. population. “Since there exists far more wealth in the world than is necessary to address the main economic causes of structural violence, the real problem is one of priorities”…p. 307 “Structural violence…is neither natural nor inevitable”, p. 301 (Prontzos). 

==2nc alt== 

the alt solves the case by revealing their psychological investments as ahistorical descriptions of the world 
Kaplowitz 90 – research associate at the Institute of Governmental Affairs, University of California at Davis in International Relations (Noel, National Self-Images, Perception of Enemies, and Conflict Strategies: Psychopolitical Dimensions of International Relations Political Psychology Vol. 11, No. 1 (Mar., 1990), pp. 39-82 JSTOR)

Conceptions of national interest comprise a third dimension of national self-imagery. Traditional IR theory has tended to assume that the meaning of the term "national interest" is self-evident-that "interests" are an objective category and can be objectively determined (Morgenthau, 1960, pp. 5-8). Despite much criticism, this particular view continues to substantially influence scholars and practitioners, so that many still use the term 52 "national interest" as if it referred solely to matters of fact and not to preferences or values. It can be empirically demonstrated, however, that there are often significant differences concerning what the national interests are and how they should be ordered. Different states and leaders within states, in relatively similar situations, often espouse different goals. In addition, there are usually competing subgoals which comprise overarching conceptions of national interest and there are often serious disagreements concerning trade-offs (George and Keohane, 1980, p. 219). Now, there are some general conceptions of interest which are virtually universal, such as maintaining the existence and security of states.9 If one asserts that "the state's existence is a national interest" and "a government is acting in the national interest if it preserves the state's existence," one is close to stating matters of fact since almost all peoples and decision-makers desire that their states continue to exist. Once we get beyond this not very useful or informative level of generality, however, we find significant differences regarding national interests. If there is widespread agreement on preservation of the "national self," there is sometimes disagreement concerning the "way of life" to be preserved. At times there is even controversy regarding the territory of the "national self" whose existence is so widely desired. There are also differences concerning the amounts of security actors desire and the prices they are willing to pay (Jervis, 1978, p. 174). This is to say nothing of ubiquitous differences concerning means for achieving aims. Statements about national interests which seem to suggest that such interests are an objective category, often stem implicitly from predictions about what would happen if the state concerned engaged in or refrained from particular actions, and from the values which would be realized or damaged. Such values and predictions, in turn, are heavily influenced by national selfimages, perceptions of others, culturally induced beliefs about appropriate behavior in conflict situations, and expectations about what is possible. These psychological and cultural factors thus help to determine the valence attached to particular goals pieces of territory for example and to the means for achieving them. Failure to understand the intensities of attachment to goals often stems from insufficient attention to such psychological and cultural influences upon policy. This inattention, in turn, can lead to crucial failures of deterrence (George, 1980, pp. 69-72; Jervis, 1979, p. 306; Lebow, 1985a) to self-defeating policies, and even to strategic disasters (Stein, 1985a, 1985b). Conversely, knowledge of the psychological and cultural influences upon an adversary's policies can be immensely useful in the development of effective strategies for dealing with him (Kaplowitz, 1984). Both the 1967 and 1973 wars in the Middle East occurred, in part, because Egypt, in the first case, did not initially comprehend the intensity of Israel's conviction about the necessity for overcoming a perceived threat to national existence; and Israel, in the second case, did not sufficiently comprehend the degree of Egypt's commitment to regaining territory and recouping national honor. Accordingly, neither party adequately understood the extent to which the other was impelled to take great risks. While some theorists have argued that such breakdowns of deterrence are exceptions, these exceptions have greatly influenced the shape of international relations today and may well influence the fate of the world tomorrow. Understanding the other's conceptions of his national interests and the valences he attaches to particular goals is crucial if actors are to devise effective policies for dealing with adversaries and if they are to enhance the possibilities for constructive outcomes. Critics of psychology and IR have often accused this enterprise of ignoring "real" conflicts of interest and of assuming that bitter disputes are "merely" the products of "misunderstanding." Psychopolitical analysis, however, adds a crucial dimension to traditional thinking on these matters. It focuses on what determines conceptions of national interest such that very real conflicts do occur that often lead to destructive interactions. In particular, it indicates the ways in which psychological and cultural factors influence conceptions of interest and consequent interactions. This mode of analysis is then able to suggest ways in which resultant knowledge can be used to design policies more likely to make for constructive outcomes.

==2nc FW== 

1) The role of the judge should be an analyst—interrogating the aff’s psychological paranoia should be a prior question to their advantages—it’s not about what the neg does, it’s about what the aff needs to do better 
Žižek 2k – Senior Researcher @ University of Ljubljana, Contingency, Hegemony, Universality 124-127

Now I can also answer the obvious counter-argument to this Lacanian notion of the act: if we define an act solely by the fact that its sudden emergence surprises/transforms its agent itself and, simultaneously, that it retroactively changes its conditions of (im)possibility, is not Nazism, then, an act par excellence? Did Hitler not ‘do the impossible', changing the entire field of what was considered `acceptable' in the liberal democratic universe? Did not a respectable middle-class petit bourgeois who, as a guard in a concentration camp, tortured Jews, also, accomplish what was considered impossible, in his previous ‘decent’ existence and acknowledge his ‘passionate attachment’ to sadistic torture? It is here that the notion of ‘traversing the fantasy’, and - on a different level - of transforming the constellation that generates social symptoms becomes crucial. An authentic act disturbs the underlying fantasy, attacking it from the point of `social symptom' (let us recall that Lacan attributed the invention of the notion of symptom to Marx!). The so-called `Nazi revolution', with its disavowal/displacement of the fundamental social antagonism ('class struggle' that divides the social edifice from within) - with its projection/externalization of the cause of social antagonisms into the figure of the Jew, and the consequent reassertion of the corporatist notion of society as an organic Whole - clearly avoids confrontation with social. antagonism; the ‘Nazi revolution’ is the exemplary case of a pseudo-change, of a frenetic activity in the course of which many things did change – ‘something was going on all the time’ - so that, precisely, something.- that which really matters - would not change; so that things would fundamentally 'remain the same'. In short, an authentic act is not simply external with regard to the hegemonic symbolic field disturbed by it: an act is an act only with regard to some symbolic field, as intervention into it. That is to say: a symbolic field is always and by definition in itself 'decentred', structured around a central void/impossibility (a personal life-narrative, say, is a bricolage of ultimately failed attempts to come to terms with some trauma; a social edifice is an ultimately failed attempt to displace/obfuscate its constitutive antagonism); and an act disturbs the symbolic field into which it intervenes not out of nowhere, but precisely from the standpoint of this inherent impossibility, stumbling block, which is its hidden, disavowed structuring principle. In contrast to this authentic act which intervenes in the constitutive void, point of failure - or what Alain Badiou has called the 'symptomal torsion’ of a given constellation - the inauthentic act legitimizes itself through reference to the point of substantial fullness of a given constellation (on the political terrain: Race, True Religion, Nation...): it aims precisely at obliterating the last traces of the 'symptomal torsion' which disturbs the balance of that constellation. One palpable political consequence of this notion of the act that has to intervene at the `symptomal torsion' of the structure (and also a proof that our position does not involve `economic essentialism') is that in each concrete constellation there is one touchv nodal point of contention which decides where one 'truly stands'. For example, in the recent struggle of the so-called `democratic opposition' in Serbia against the Milosevic regime, the truly touchy topic is the stance towards the Albanian majority in Kosovo: the great majority of the `democratic opposition' unconditionally endorse Milosevic’s anti-Albanian nationalist agenda, even accusing him of making compromises with the West and `betraying' Serb national interests in Kosovo. In the course of the student demonstrations against Milosevic's Socialist Party falsification of the election results in the winter of 1996, the Western media which closely followed events, and praised the revived democratic spirit in Serbia, rarely mentioned the fact that one of the demonstrators' regular slogans against the special police was `Instead of kicking us, go to Kosovo and kick out the Albanians!'. So - and this is my point - it is theoretically as well as politically wrong to claim that, in today's Serbia, 'anti-Albanian nationalism' is simply one among the `floating signifiers' that can be appropriated either by Milosevic's power bloc or by the opposition: the moment one endorses it, no matter how much one 'reinscribes it into the democratic chain of equivalences', one already accepts the terrain as defined by Milosevic, one - as it were - is already `playing his game'. In today's Serbia, the absolute sine qua non of an authentic political act would thus be to reject absolutely the ideologico-political topos of the Albanian threat in Kosovo. Psychoanalysis is aware of a whole series of `false acts': psychotic-paranoiac violent passage a l'acte, hysterical acting out, obsessional self-hindering, perverse self-instrumentalization – all these acts are not simply wrong according to some external standards, they are immanently wrong since they can be properly grasped only as reactions to some disavowed trauma that they displace, repress, and so on. What we are tempted to say is that the Nazi anti-Semitic violence was `false' in the same way: all the shattering impact of this large-scale frenetic activity was fundamentally `misdirected', it was a kind of gigantic passage a l'acte betraying an inability to confront the real kernel of the trauma (the social antagonism). So what we are claiming is that anti-Semitic violence, say, is not only `factually wrong' (Jews are `not really like that', exploiting us and organizing a universal plot) and/or ‘morally wrong’ (unacceptable in terms of elementary standards of decency, etc.), but also `untrue’ in the sense of an inauthenticity which is simultaneously epistemological and ethical, just as an obsessional who reacts to his [sic] disavowed sexual fixations by engaging in compulsive defence rituals acts in an inauthentic way. Lacan claimed that even if the patient's wife is really sleeping around with other men, the patient's jealousy is still to be treated as a pathological condition; in a homologous way, even if rich Jews `really' exploited German workers, seduced their daughters, dominated the popular press, and so on, anti-Semitism is still an emphatically `untrue', pathological ideological condition - why? What makes it pathological is the disavowed subjective libidinal investment in the figure of the Jew – the way social antagonism is displaced-obliterated by being 'projected' into the figure of the Jew. So - back to the obvious counter-argument to the Lacanian notion of the act: this second feature (for a gesture to count as an act, it must 'traverse the fantasy') is not simply a further, additional criterion, to be added to the first ('doing the impossible', retroactively rewriting its own conditions): if this second criterion is not fulfilled, the first is not really met either - that is to say; we are not actually `doing the impossible', traversing the fantasy towards the Real. 

Policymaking 
Bilgin 4—Pinar BILGIN IR @ Bilikent AND Adam David MORTON Senior Lecturer and Fellow of the Centre for the Study of Social and Global Justice IR @ Nottingham ‘4 (“From ‘Rogue’ to ‘Failed’ States? The Fallacy of Short-termism” Politics 24 (3) p. Wiley Interscience//DN)

Calls for alternative approaches to the phenomenon of state failure are often met with the criticism that such alternatives could only work in the long term whereas 'something' needs to be done here and now. Whilst recognising the need for immediate action, it is the role of the political scientist to point to the fallacy of 'short-termism' in the conduct of current policy. Short-termism is defined by Ken Booth (1999, p. 4) as 'approaching security issues within the time frame of the next election, not the next generation'. Viewed as such, short-termism is the enemy of true strategic thinking. The latter requires policymakers to rethink their long-term goals and take small steps towards achieving them. It also requires heeding against taking steps that might eventually become self-defeating. The United States has presently fought three wars against two of its Cold War allies in the post-Cold War era, namely, the Iraqi regime of Saddam Hussein and the Taliban in Afghanistan. Both were supported in an attempt to preserve the delicate balance between the United States and the Soviet Union. The Cold War policy of supporting client regimes has eventually backfired in that US policymakers now have to face the instability they have caused. Hence the need for a comprehensive understanding of state failure and the role Western states have played in failing them through varied forms of intervention. Although some commentators may judge that the road to the existing situation is paved with good intentions, a truly strategic approach to the problem of international terrorism requires a more sensitive consideration of the medium-to-long-term implications of state building in different parts of the world whilst also addressing the root causes of the problem of state 'failure'. Developing this line of argument further, reflection on different socially relevant meanings of 'state failure' in relation to different time increments shaping policymaking might convey alternative considerations. In line with John Ruggie (1998, pp. 167–170), divergent issues might then come to the fore when viewed through the different lenses of particular time increments. Firstly, viewed through the lenses of an incremental time frame, more immediate concerns to policymakers usually become apparent when linked to precocious assumptions about terrorist networks, banditry and the breakdown of social order within failed states. Hence relevant players and events are readily identified (al-Qa'eda), their attributes assessed (axis of evil, 'strong'/'weak' states) and judgements made about their long-term significance (war on terrorism). The key analytical problem for policymaking in this narrow and blinkered domain is the one of choice given the constraints of time and energy devoted to a particular decision. These factors lead policymakers to bring conceptual baggage to bear on an issue that simplifies but also distorts information. Taking a second temporal form, that of a conjunctural time frame, policy responses are subject to more fundamental epistemological concerns. Factors assumed to be constant within an incremental time frame are more variable and it is more difficult to produce an intended effect on ongoing processes than it is on actors and discrete events. For instance, how long should the 'war on terror' be waged for? Areas of policy in this realm can therefore begin to become more concerned with the underlying forces that shape current trajectories. Shifting attention to a third temporal form draws attention to still different dimensions. Within an epochal time frame an agenda still in the making appears that requires a shift in decision-making, away from a conventional problem-solving mode 'wherein doing nothing is favoured on burden-of-proof grounds', towards a risk-averting mode, characterised by prudent contingency measures. To conclude, in relation to 'failed states', the latter time frame entails reflecting on the very structural conditions shaping the problems of 'failure' raised throughout the present discussion, which will demand lasting and delicate attention from practitioners across the academy and policymaking communities alike. 

==2nc perm== 

complete rejection is critical 
Neocleous 8 [Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, Critique of Security, 185-6]

The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, is perhaps to eschew the logic of security altogether – to reject it as so ideologically loaded in favour of the state that any real political thought other than the authoritarian and reactionary should be pressed to give it up. That is clearly something that can not be achieved within the limits of bourgeois thought and thus could never even begin to be imagined by the security intellectual. It is also something that the constant iteration of the refrain ‘this is an insecure world’ and reiteration of one fear, anxiety and insecurity after another will also make it hard to do. But it is something that the critique of security suggests we may have to consider if we want a political way out of the impasse of security. This impasse exists because security has now become so all-encom passing that it marginalises all else, most notably the constructive conﬂicts, debates and discussions that animate political life. The con stant prioritising of a mythical security as a political end – as the political end – constitutes a rejection of politics in any meaningful sense of the term. That is, as a mode of action in which differences can be articulated, in which the conﬂicts and struggles that arise from such differences can be fought for and negotiated, in which people might come to believe that another world is possible – that they might transform the world and in turn be transformed. Security politics simply removes this; worse, it removes it while purportedly addressing it. In so doing it suppresses all issues of power and turns political questions into debates about the most efﬁcient way to achieve ‘security’, despite the fact that we are never quite told – never could be told – what might count as having achieved it. Security politics is, in this sense, an anti-politics,141 dominating political discourse in much the same manner as the security state tries to dominate human beings, reinforcing security fetishism and the monopolistic character of security on the political imagination. We therefore need to get beyond security politics, not add yet more ‘sectors’ to it in a way that simply expands the scope of the state and legitimises state intervention in yet more and more areas of our lives. Simon Dalby reports a personal communication with Michael Williams, co-editor of the important text Critical Security Studies, in which the latter asks: if you take away security, what do you put in the hole that’s left behind? But I’m inclined to agree with Dalby: maybe there is no hole.142 The mistake has been to think that there is a hole and that this hole needs to be ﬁlled with a new vision or revision of security in which it is re-mapped or civilised or gendered or humanised or expanded or whatever. All of these ultimately remain within the statist political imaginary, and consequently end up re afﬁrming the state as the terrain of modern politics, the grounds of security. The real task is not to ﬁll the supposed hole with yet another vision of security, but to ﬁght for an alternative political language which takes us beyond the narrow horizon of bourgeois security and which therefore does not constantly throw us into the arms of the state. That’s the point of critical politics: to develop a new political language more adequate to the kind of society we want. Thus while much of what I have said here has been of a negative order, part of the tradition of critical theory is that the negative may be as signiﬁcant as the positive in setting thought on new paths. For if security really is the supreme concept of bourgeois society and the fundamental thematic of liberalism, then to keep harping on about insecurity and to keep demanding‘more security’ (while meekly hoping that this increased security doesn’t damage our liberty) is to blind ourselves to the possibility of building real alternatives to the authoritarian tendencies in contemporary politics. To situate ourselves against security politics would allow us to circumvent the debilitating effect achieved through the constant securitising of social and political issues, debilitating in the sense that ‘security’ helps consolidate the power of the existing forms of social domination and justiﬁes the short-circuiting of even the most democratic forms. It would also allow us to forge another kind of politics centred on a different con ception of the good. We need a new way of thinking and talking about social being and politics that moves us beyond security. This would perhaps be emancipatory in the true sense of the word. What this might mean, precisely, must be open to debate. But it certainly requires recognising that security is an illusion that has forgotten it is an illusion; it requires recognising that security is not the same as solidarity; it requires accepting that insecurity is part of the human condition, and thus giving up the search for the certainty of security and instead learning to tolerate the uncertainties, ambiguities and ‘insecurities’ that come with being human; it requires accepting that ‘securitizing’ an issue does not mean dealing with it politically, but bracketing it out and handing it to the state; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift.143 

==2nc Schmitt== 

The alt solves—interrogating the psychological underpinnings of enemy creation allows for peaceful conflict resolution to replace war 
Byles 3—English, U Cyprus (Joanna, Psychoanalysis and War: The Superego and Projective Identification, http://www.clas.ufl.edu/ipsa/journal/articles/art_byles01.shtml, AMiles)

The problem of warfare which includes genocide, and its most recent manifestation, international terrorism, brings into focus the need to understand how the individual is placed in the social and the social in the individual. Psychoanalytic theories of superego aggression, splitting, projection, and projective identification may be useful in helping us to understand the psychic links involved. It seems vital to me writing in the Middle East in September 2002 that we examine our understanding of what it is we understand about war, including genocide and terrorism. Some psychoanalysts argue that war is a necessary defence against psychotic anxiety (Fornari xx; Volkan), and Freud himself first advanced the idea that war provided an outlet for repressed impulses. ("Why War?"197). The problematic of these views is the individual's need to translate internal psychotic anxieties into real external dangers so as to control them. It suggests that culturally warfare and its most recent manifestation, international terrorism and the so-called ''war on terrorism," may be a necessary object for internal aggression and not a pathology. Indeed, Fornari suggests that "war could be seen as an attempt at therapy, carried out by a social institution which, precisely by institutionalizing war, increases to gigantic proportions what is initially an elementary defensive mechanism of the ego in the schizo-paranoid phase" (xvii-xviii). In other words, the history of war might represent the externalization and articulation of shared unconscious fantasies. This idea would suggest that the culture of war, genocide, and international terrorism provides objects of psychic need. If this is so, with what can we replace them? If cultural formations and historical events have their sources in our psychic functioningthat is to say, in our unconscious fears and desires, and culture itself provides a framework for expressing, articulating, and coming to terms with these fears and desires, then psychoanalysis may help to reveal why war seems to be an inevitable and ineradicable part of human history. Superego as an Agent of Aggression In "The Ego and the Id," Freud formulated a seemingly insoluble dilemma in the very essence of the human psyche; the eternal conflict between the dual instincts of eros, the civilizing life instinct, and the indomitable death instinct (thanatos). He also identified some aspects of the death instinct with superego aggression, suggesting that the superego was the agent of the death instinct in its cruel and aggressive need for punishment and that its operative feeling was frequently a punitive hatred, while other aspects of the superego were protective. As we know, Freud thought the source of the superego was the internalization of the castrating Oedipal father. In chapter seven of Civilization and its Discontents, he theorized that when de-fusion or separation of the dual instincts occurred, aspects of aggression frequently dominated and that it was the purpose of the ego to find objects for eros and/or aggression either in phanta sv or reality. The role phantasy plays in projective identification is something to which I shall return. Other theorists, such as Melanie Klein, trace the beginning of the superego back to early (infant) oral phantasies of self-destruction, which is a direct manifestation of the death instinct. Klein transformed the oedipal drama by making the mother its central figure and thus playing a vital role in object-relations theory, about which I shall say more later in this essay. Although Klein's work relied on the dual instinct theory postulated by Freud, she re-defined the drives by emphasizing the way in which the destructive instincts attached themselves to the object, in particular the good-bad breast. Thus for Klein, the site of the superego is derived from oral Incorporation of the good/bad breast, contrary to Freud, for whom the site of the superego is the paternal law. Although the formation of the superego is grounded on the renunciation ofloving and hostile Oedipal wishes, it is subsequently refined, by the contributions of social and cultural requirements (education, religion, morality). My argument in this paper is three-fold: (1) These social and cultural requirements in which the superego is grounded may be used by the superego of the state and/or its leader to mobilize aspects of the individual's aggression during war-time in a way that does not happen in peace-time. (2) Klein's theory of splitting and projective identification plays an important role in the concept of difference and otherness as enemy. (3) Bion's development of Klein's theory into what he called the "container" and the "contained" may offer some way out of the psychic dangers of projective identification by suggesting that we may be able to access our internal psychic world as a transformative power to combat violence both internal and external. In an early attempt to define war neuroses, or how war mentally traumatizes the psyche, Freud wrote of the conflict "between the soldier's old peaceful ego and his new warlike one" becoming acute as soon as the peace-ego realizes what danger it runs in losing its own life to the rashness of its newly formed parasitic double" (SE 17 209). Accepting the violence that is within ourselves as well as in the other, the so-called enemy, is a difficult lesson to learn, and learning to displace our instinctual destructive aggression peacefully is enormously more difficult. To the extent the individual superego is connected to society, which assumes its functions particularly in wartime, the problem of war brings into focus the psychoanalytic problem of the partial defusion (separation) of eros and psychic aggression brought about by war through specifically social processes. These social processes involve the mechanisms by which aspects of the violent and aggressive social superego of the State mobilizes and appropriates some of the dynamic aspects of the individual's superego aggression: the need to hate, and to punish, for its own purposes, such as genocide or so-called "ethnic cleansing," and for territorial and economic reasons. Many of these actions are often masked as defending civilization, or an idealized State and/or its leader. This is also true of the "holy jihads" that are rapidly becoming an enormous threat to the world. In his book Enemies and Allies, Vamik Volkan suggests that the individual may see the superego of the State as his/her own idealized superego. And indeed, this may in turn help to explain how during war-time the social superego is placed in the individual and how in turn the individual is positioned in the social. In Civilization and its Discontents, to which I have already referred, Freud wrote about the ways in which the regulations and demands of a civilized society harbor the risk of the death instinct (aggression) being released at any favorable opportunity, especially when combined with Eros i.e., under the pretext of idealism and patriotism. This is especially true when t here is a leader who elicits strong emotional attachments from a group or nation. Of course, I am not arguing that there are not some important aspects of the social superego that are beneficial, for example the ethical and moral laws which shape society and protect its citizens; nevertheless, in wartime and its most recent manifestation, international terrorism, it is precisely these civilizing aspects of the social superego that are ignored or repressed. It seems to me that the failure of civilization historically to control the aggression, cruelty, and hatred that characterize war urgently requires a psychoanalytic explanation. Of course, I am speaking of psychic, not biological (survival of the fittest), aggression. In wartime the externalized superego of the state sanctions killing and violence that is not allowed in peace-time (in fact, such violence against others during peacetime would be considered criminal) sanctions, in fact, the gratification of warring aggression, thus ensuring that acts of violence need not incur guilt. Why do we accept this? Psychoanalysis posits the idea that aggression is not behavioral but instinctual; not social but psychological. To quote Volkan, who follows Freud, "It is man's very nature itself." Obviously, it is vital that humanity find more mature, less primitive ways of dealing with our hatred and aggression than war, genocide, and international terrorism. The most characteristic thing about this kind of violence and cruelty is its collective mentality: war requires group co-operation, organization, and approval. Some theorists argue that one of the primary cohesive elements binding individuals into institutionalized human association is defence against psychotic anxiety. In Group Psychology Freud writes that "in a group the individual is brought under conditions which allow him to throw off the repressions of his unconscious instinctual impulses. The apparently new characteristics he then displays are in fact the manifestation of this unconscious, in which all that is evil in the human mind is contained as a predisposition" (74). Later in the same essay, when speaking of the individual and the group mind, Freud quotes Le Bon : "Isolated, he may be a cultivated individual; in a crowd, he is a barbarian that is, a creature acting by instinct. He possesses the spontaneity, the violence, the ferocity, and also the enthusiasm and heroism of primitive beings" (77). War is a collective phenomenon that mobilizes our anxieties and allows our original sadistic fantasies of destructive omnipotence to be re-activated and projected onto "the enemy." Some critics have argued that we "need" enemies as external stabilizers of our sense of identity and inner control. It has also been argued that the militancy a particular group shows toward its enemies may partly mask the personal internal conflicts of each member of the group, and that they may therefore have an emotional investment in the maintenance of the enmity. In other words, they need the enemy and are unconsciously afraid to lose it. This fits in with the well known phenomenon of inventing an enemy when there is not one readily available. The individual suicide bomber, or suicide pilot, is just as much part of this group psychology each bomber, each terrorist, is acting for his/her group, or even more immediately his or her family, from whom he/she derives enormous psychic strength and support. Just as importantly, she/he is acting in the name of his/her leader. All of these identifications require strong emotional attachments. Freud writes, "The mutual tie between members of a group is in the nature of an identification, based upon an important emotional common quality. . . . This common quality lies in the nature of the tie to the leader" (Group 1078). In Learning from Experience, Bion theorizes that a social groupfunctions to establish a fixed social order of things (the establishm ent), and that the individual has to be contained by the establishment of the group. Sometimes the rigidity of me system crushes the individual's creativity; alternatively, certain special individuals erupt in the group, which goes to pieces under their influence (Bion cites Jesus within the constraints of Israel). A final possibility is the mutual adaptation of one to the other, with a development of both the individual and the group. The development of a sense of self, its integration, its separation, and its protection all begin, or course, in early childhood. Psychoanalyses like Klein, Winnicott, and Bion have explored these ideas in what is known as object relations theory. Volkan writes that the concepts of enemy and ally and the senses of ethnicity and nationality are largely bound up with the individual's sense of self, and that individuals within an ethnic or national group tend to see their group as a privileged "pseudo-species" (Erikson) and enemy groups as subhuman (262). Of course enemies are threatening and do generate a reactive need for defenses; however, a basic psychoanalytic question might be to what extent the degree of defensiveness characteristic of war behavior represents personal, emotional needs of individuals for an enemy to hate, so that they can keep their conflicted selves together, and to what extent the State superego plays a role here. Our capacity for splitting and projection plays an important part in how we see others and feel about others, and through the process of projective identification, how we make others feel about ourselves and themselves. Projective identification involves a deep split, displacing onto and into others the hateful, bad parts of ourselves, and frequently making them feehateful to themselves through their own introjection of our hatred. This hatred is often racial or religious, frequently both. Moreover, in the process of projective identification, parts of the self are put into the other, thus depleting the ego. (This process can be a vicious circle, and it is a profoundly disturbing and characteristic pathology, often involving envy and/or rivalry, both corrosive, poisonous forces.) These Kleinian ideas, developed by other theorists, such as Winnicott and Bion, are hugely relevant to the problem of war and genocide, and most recently, of terrorism. Klein argues that in the paranoid schizoid position there is a splitting of good and bad objects, with the good being introjected and the bad being externalized and projected out into someone or onto something else. As with the infant and child, so with the adult, mechanisms of splitting and protection play upon negative and feared connotations of the other, of the enemy, and of difference; projection prevents warring nations from exploring and thus understanding what it is that actually divides them; it prevents mutual response and recognition by promoting exclusivity. As already mentioned, analysts such as Volkan and Erikson have written about the processes by which an enemy is dehumanized so as to provide the distance a group needs from its perceived enemy. First the group becomes preoccupied with the enemy according to the psychology of minor differences. Then mass regression occurs to permit the group to recover and reactivate more primitive methods. What they then use in this regressed state tends to contain aspects of childish (pre-oedipal) fury. The enemy is perceived more and more as a stereotype of bad and negative qualities. The use of denial allows a group to ignore the fact that its own externalizations and projections are involved in this process. The stereotyped enemy may be so despised as to be no longer human, and it will then be referred to in non-human terms. History teaches us that it was in this way that the Nazis perceived the Jews as vermin to be exterminated. As I write, Al Qaeda terrorist groups view all Americans as demons and infidels to be annihilated, and many Americans are comforted by demonizing all of bearded Islam. Many Israelis consider most Palestinians as dirt beneath their feet subhuman and most Palestinians think of most Israelis as despoilers of the land they are supposed to share. In other words, the problem of the mentality of war and of terrorism mobilizes our anxieties in such a way so as to prevent critical reality testing. If we could learn the enormously difficult and painful task of re-introjection, of taking back our projections, our hatreds, anxieties, and fears of the other and of difference, long before they harm the other, there might be a transition, a link, from the state sanctioned violence of war back to individual violence. We might learn to subvert negative projective identification into a positive identification as a means of empathizing with the other and thus containing difference. The violence of the individual could then be contained and sublimated in peaceful ways, such as reconciling and balancing competing interests by asking what exactly these opposing interests are and exploring what the dynamics, conscious and unconscious, are for the hatred of deep war-like antagonisms. In other words, we would need to change our relationship with the other, giving up the dangerously irresponsible habit of splitting, projective identification, and exclusivity by recognizing difference not antagonistically but through an inclusive process that recognises the totalitv of human relationships in a peaceful world. We might substitute for the libidinal object-ties involved in projective identification the re-introjection of the object into the ego, and thus reach a common feeling of sharing, of being part of the other, of empathy, in short. As Freud pointed our, the ego is altered bv introjection, as suggested by his memorable formulation: " The shadow of the object has fallen on the ego." In his book Second Thoughts, Bion theorizes that in the infant as in the adult, re-introjection can be dangerous if the dominance of projective identification confuses the distinction between s elf and the external object, since this awareness depends on the recognition of a distinction between subject and object. But Bion's theory of the pairing group, or the container and the contained, provides a way out of this predicament, suggesting that the outcome of such pairing is either detrimental to the contained, or to the container, or mutually developing to both. This idea is germane to my argument in this paper that the reciprocity of the container and the contained relationship, through both positive projective identification (empathy) and introjection or re-introjection, results in a positive allowance of difference in other words, a healthy acceptance of and adaptation to the other within the self and the self within the other. 

3) No link—we don’t reject all us/them dichotomies—we just question the aff’s libidinal investment in the figure of the enemy—proves we internal link turn this because their invocation of the security logic inculcates a permanent state of paranoia that results in worse violence 
Neocleous 8 Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, Critique of Security, p117-

Eliding the distinction between military practice and the everyday political administration of civil society thereby helps in ‘securing’ a general willingness among the citizenry to submit to wartime discipline and emergency powers on a permanent basis. It is this project of total war, total security and permanent emergency that requires the constant reiteration of the existence of fear and danger. Key ﬁgures in the national security state such as Nitze and Acheson came to use the various drafts of NSC documents, and especially NSC-68, to simultaneously promote more aggressive foreign policies and to frighten Americans into supporting those policies.35 By 1949 one Cold Warrior could openly employ a Kierke gaardian frame and state that the ‘reign of insecurity’ means that ‘anxiety is the ofﬁcial emotion of our time’.36 This anxiety permeated all the way through the national security state in the early Cold War and after. From panic over the Soviet Union to concern over the‘loss’ of China all the way down to‘the posture of the world’s most powerful state in the 1980s, a sumo wrestler, as it were, perched on a chair at the sight of a socialist Nicaraguan mouse appearing “on its doorstep” (which is to say, approximately the distance which separates London from Albania)’,37 the national security state has constantly exhibited one insecurity, fear or anxiety after another, turning the entire social symbolic system surrounding national security into the alter image of a collectively anticipated spectacle of disaster.38 In peddling the fear of disintegration and crisis, the ideology of security is the paranoid style in politics writ large. Writing about this paranoid style, both Richard Hofstadter and E. H. Gombrich have noted that unlike the clinically paranoid person who sees the hostile and conspiratorial world in which he is living as directed against him, the spokespersons of the paranoid style ﬁnd it directed against a nation, a culture, a way of life. In its most abstract mode this style involves the constant scanning of the social and political environment for signs conﬁrming the wicked threat, and involves imaginative leaps conjuring up a vast and sinister conspiracy, a huge and hidden machinery of inﬂuence set in motion to undermine and destroy a way of life. The style also tends to be convinced that the nation is infused with a terror network of enemy agents taking over the institutions of civil society in a concerted effort to paralyse the resistance of loyal citizens.39 If we see in paranoia a type of investment of a social formation, as Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari suggest, then one can read a politics structured around security as deeply paranoid.40 I have shown elsewhere how this style also operates with the metaphor of disease, with the health of the body politic supposedly being ruined by the ‘disease’ of communism: ‘world communism is like a malignant parasite’, says Kennan, ‘which feeds only on diseased tissue’ while the Soviet Union ‘bear[s] within itself germs of creeping disease’.41 We might add here that such disease is also a form of dis-ease – a profound insecurity about the state, its mode of accumulation, and its place in world order. The ideology of national security is in this sense both hypochondriac and paranoid. In both hypochondria and paranoia, perception is as important as reality. John Lewis Gaddis notes that by around 1950 key ﬁgures in the US were coming to the view that because insecurity could manifest itself in psychological as well as physical terms it could have a wide and indeterminate range of sources, and the implications of this were startling: ‘world order, and with it American security, had come to depend as much on perceptions of the balance of power as on what that balance actually was’. This was not just a question of the perceptions of statesmen and generals: ‘they reﬂected as well mass opinion, foreign as well as domestic, informed as well as uninformed, rational as well as irrational.’42 The Cold War, as an ‘imaginary war’43 was to therefore be a war of the imagination. To win this war meant disciplining (and, as we shall shortly see, punishing) the imagination, a process which centred on the constant reiteration of national (in)security. Indeed, one might say that if we are talking about the human imagination and its fears, then there is nothing that might not be transformed into a ‘clear and present danger’, and thus nothing that might escape becoming a security issue. The national security state would simultaneously be the national insecurity state – permanently. At ﬁrst sight such a reading might appear to suggest a problem for states: after all, surely anxiety, fear and insecurity are bad? But for the party of order and security, disorder and insecurity always have their uses. If, as Kennan once put it, ‘complete security . . . will never be achieved’,44 and if insecurity is driven by myriad fears, myths and purported dangers, then what better way to develop and embellish the national security state, and to justify the constant re-ordering of domestic civil society and international order, than to encouragethose very fears and insecurities in the ﬁrst place? As one of the major supporters and prime movers behind the Marshall Plan, Senator Vandenberg, put it, the administration really had to ‘scare hell out of the American people’.45 The manipulation of insecurity thus becomes a primary stake in the struggle for power and the exercise of domination. This is foreign policy as a discourse of danger and an evangelism of fear.46 The real danger is then less the feeling of insecurity and much more that the people might not be sufﬁciently afraid. This is perhaps partly what the authors of NSC-68 meant when they stated that even if there were no Soviet threat, the same policy would probably be pursued. In this sense the Cold War might be read as a mutually agreeable explanation for the constant reiteration of the need for security and the permanent ‘improvement’ of the security apparatus – on both sides. As Diana Johnstone and Ben Cramer put it writing about the more than 1,200 US bases in Europe throughout the Cold War,‘if the danger [of Soviet invasion] never really existed, then it can be argued that a primary mission of U.S. forces in Europe in reality has been to maintainthe Soviet threat . . . The Soviet and U.S “threats” maintained each other, and thus their double military hegemony over the European continent’.47This might also explain why the US spent a large proportion of the Cold War literally feeding its enemy, being one of the largest suppliers of wheat and coarse grains and other imports, as well as various loans and credits to Eastern European satellites. It would almost seem as if it the US needed the Soviet Union’s continued existence as tangible explanation for the anxiety it claimed to experience and as justiﬁcation for the national security state and the proliferation of one ‘security measure’ after another.48 And if it were to disappear then a replacement would have to be found: one must never allow the system to‘run out of demons’.49 Writing in 1953, after having lived through some of these key political developments in the US and having been engaged in debating with fascist political and legal theorists in Germany, Franz Neumann commented that the integrating element of liberal democ racy purports to be a moral one, whether it be freedom or justice. ‘But there is opposed to this a second integrating principle of a political system: fear of an enemy’. Such fear, he notes, is a key feature of fascist political thought, which ‘asserts that the creation of a national com munity is conditioned by the existence of an enemy whom one must be willing to exterminate physically’. His reference here is to Carl Schmitt’s Concept of the Political, in which Schmitt asserts that ‘the speciﬁc political distinction to which political actions and motives can be reduced is that between friend and enemy’, a distinction which ‘denotes the utmost intensity of a union or separation, of an asso ciation or dissociation’ and which receives its real meaning by opening up the possibility of war and death.50 Neumann comments that when the concepts of ‘enemy’ and ‘fear’ come to constitute the energetic principles of politics, democracy becomes impossible and the system is ripe for dictatorship. We might add that this strategic deployment of fear is fundamental to the ideology of security. To help shape this fear and its deployment, the security state employed a rhetorical strategy focused on the moral ﬁbre and identity of the American people.51 NSC-68 presented a more or less standard version of American exceptionalism rooted in the unquestioned virtues of the American way of life. The opening sections of the topsecret national security memorandum in particular go to some lengths to outline and elaborate the key differences between‘the fundamental purpose of the US’, namely freedom, and‘the fundamental design of the Kremlin’, namely slavery. The idea of‘freedom’ was reiterated via one of the standard tropes in nationalist discourse, namely by invoking the bonds of community between the living and the dead embodied in the authority of the Constitution, thereby situating the national security state in the context of a long American tradition.52 The assertion of this identity was consciously linked to the authori tative texts that were/are invoked in US political discourse to silence dissent and to continually reafﬁrm the benevolence of the American idea of freedom. NSC-68 and related national security documents from the period are replete with references to the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, The Federalist, God-given rights,53 and the historical duties of America. Just as Roosevelt in the mid-1930s had argued that the freedoms Americans so cherished required the kind of social security he was planning to offer, so now national security was to be thought of in the same terms. This (re-)imagined community of America was then used to distinguish ‘American identity’ from the ‘other’ – between ‘us’ and ‘them’; ‘good’ versus ‘evil’; the US as a ‘country’ compared to the USSR as a ‘fortress’; the ‘marvelous diversity, deep tolerance and lawfulness of the free society’ compared to the ‘slave state’; and so on – in a prime expression of the ways in which the politics of security is inextricably bound up with the technologies of cultural difference and an exemplary case of identity as a strategy of containment. This American identity was seen as an outcome of the exceptional and consensual nature of American history, which had to be re-imagined in such a way that obfuscated its former reliance on the slave trade, its relationship with Nazi Germany, its early positive relationship with the Soviet regime and its willing ness to happily agree with the Soviet leadership at Yalta in 1945 about how to divide Europe and share the spoils in East Asia. In an exem plary instance of history as ideology, American political and cultural ‘tradition’ would thereby be placed in a different moral universe from the‘slavery’ of the Communist system.54 

4) Enmity guarantees warfare—legitimizes histories’ worst atrocities 
Burke 7—IR, New South Wales (Anthony, Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence, 7-9, AMiles) ellipses in orig 

Like Hobbes before him, Schmitt conceived a figure of the enemy – a threatening Other – that is constitutive of the state as ‘the specific entity of a people’.8 Without it society is not political and a people cannot be said to exist: Only the actual participants can correctly recognise, understand and judge the concrete situation and settle the extreme case of conflict . . . to judge whether the adversary intends to negate his opponent’s way of life and therefore must be repulsed or fought in order to preserve one’s own form of existence.9 (emphasis added) It is clear that such a conception of the political has a tendency to surround the entirety of political life with an aura of emergency and threat to one’s very existence. Problems such as terrorism, flows of asylum seekers or weapons of mass destruction, are thus easily magnified into ones that must be viewed through the prisms of identity, existential antagonism and combat. While Schmitt claimed to be opposed to militarism (like many realists he advocated the avoidance of war) he stated that the political was only existent ‘when a fighting collectivity of people confronts a similar collectivity’. Hence the potential for war was an existential condition: the entire life of a human being is a struggle and every human being is symbolically a combatant. The friend, enemy and combat concepts receive their real meaning precisely because they refer to the real possibility of physical killing. War follows from enmity. War is the existential negation of the enemy.10 In his 2004 State of the Union speech, Bush went out of his way to defend his administration’s conceptualisation of the response to terrorism as ‘war’ and the use of extraordinary legal powers and unilateral military force to meet the threat: ‘after the chaos and carnage of September the 11th’, he argued, ‘it is not enough to serve our enemies with legal papers. The terrorists and their supporters declared war on the United States, and war is what they got.’11 He also lectured Congress on the need to renew the Patriot Act, ‘key provisions [of which] are set to expire next year. The terrorist threat will not expire on that schedule’.12 Yet many provisions of that Act and other administrative measures were deeply controversial, especially the Executive Order that authorised the ‘indefinite detention’ and trial by ‘military commissions’ of the ‘battlefield detainees’ held in camps at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. As if sprung whole from Schmitt’s theory, the Order stated that: it is not practicable to apply in military commissions under this order the principles of law and the rules of evidence generally recognized in the trial of criminal cases in the United States district courts. . . . Having fully considered the magnitude of the potential deaths, injuries, and property destruction that would result from potential acts of terrorism against the United States, and the probability that such acts will occur, I have determined that an extraordinary emergency exists for national defense purposes, that this emergency constitutes an urgent and compelling government interest, and that issuance of this order is necessary to meet the emergency.13 An important detail about this extraordinary measure was that it only applied to non-citizens of the United States; citizens suspected of terrorism must be prosecuted under US criminal codes. Such orders invoke what Schmitt called the ‘state of exception’ wherein the existing legal order is suspended and ‘unlimited authority’ seized by the sovereign to meet a ‘danger to the existence of the state’. This, he argues, is the essence of sovereignty: ‘Sovereign is he who decides on the exception.’14 What is especially distinctive is not only the idealistic alignment of extra-judicial powers of life and death with sovereignty, freed from the dominance of the constitution and the rule of law, but the enactment of an uncertain threshold between law and the human in which the human can disappear as a matter of executive power and whim ‘in the interest of the state, public safety and order’.15 Giorgio Agamben argues that ‘what is new about President Bush’s order is that it radically erases any legal status of the individual, thus producing a legally unnameable and unclassifiable being’.16 Similarly, Judith Butler suggests that we are witnessing the emergence of ‘normative conceptions of the human that produce, through an exclusionary process, a host of “unliveable lives” whose legal and political status is suspended’; lives ‘viewed and judged so that they are less than human, or as having departed from the recognisable human community’.17 Agamben, drawing on the work of Hannah Arendt and Michel Foucault, has done most to describe and denounce the violent and impoverished conceptualisation of life implicit in such a politics. He saw in the convergence of a Schmittian theory of sovereignty and what Foucault termed ‘biopolitics’ a diabolical system of political and administrative power that reduced human existence to ‘bare life’ (Homo sacer) that ‘may be killed and yet not sacrificed’ – Homo sacer being ‘an obscure figure of archaic Roman law in which human life is included in the juridical order solely in the form of its exclusion (that is, of its capacity to be killed)’.18 He sees such a simultaneously exceptional and biopolitical power at work in ‘the Camp’, which took on its most horrific form in the Holocaust but is also in operation at the US prisons in Cuba and Abu Ghraib, and, as Suvendrini Perera19 has shown, at immigration detention centres like Woomera and Baxter in remote South Australia, where sovereign power is unchecked and life is taken hold of outside the existing legal order (or at least within a radically unstable and arbitrary one). The camp, Agamaben argues, is ‘the biopolitical paradigm of the modern’ and the state of exception is becoming normalised and universalised: it ‘tends increasingly to appear as the dominant paradigm of government in contemporary politics’.20 Agamben thus issues a profound warning for anyone concerned with interrogating modern conceptions of security – which, after all, posit the sovereign nation-state as the collective to be secured and abrogate to government powers to protect the ‘life’ of this collective. Yet life is not valued equally and its ‘protection’ comes with a simultaneous seizing of life by power: . . . in the age of biopolitics this power [to decide which life can be killed] becomes emancipated from the state of exception and transformed into the power to decide the point at which life ceases to be politically relevant. When life becomes the supreme political value, not only is the problem of life’s nonvalue thereby posed as Schmitt suggests, but further, it is as if the ultimate ground of sovereign power were at stake in this decision. In modern biopolitics, sovereign is he who decides on the value or nonvalue of life as such.21 In a world where life and existence are defined biopolitically, and government takes on the responsibility to secure, enable, regulate and order life, Agamben argues (after Foucault) that it is as if: ‘every decisive political event were double-sided: the spaces, the liberties, and the rights won by individuals in their conflicts with central powers always simultaneously prepared a tacit but increasing inscription of individuals’ lives within the state order, thus offering a new more dreadful foundation for the sovereign power from which they wanted to free themselves.’22 In this light, the ‘active defense of the American people’ comes to sound sinister indeed, for Americans and their Others alike. 

==A2 Positivism Good== 

Policymaking is impossible in a positivist framework 
Marston 4 – Bachelor of Social Science (QUT), PHD (UQ) Greg Social policy and Discourse Analysis p. 14-15

The positivist paradigm informs an idealized rational actor understanding of the policy-making process. The rational approach to policy-making is an extension of particular forms of positivism and neo-positivism that seek to purge the social scientist of values (Bryman, 1988, p.14). This idea of reason without values is maintained through instrumental and technical rationality. Instrumental rationality in policy-making can be defined as follows: 'in any organization there might be a number of ways of reaching goals; and when faced with the need to make a choice between alternatives the rational decision maker chooses the alternative most likely to achieve the desired outcome' (Ham and Hill, 1993, p.77). The idealistic representation of policy as a form of 'rational decision making' between available choices and options is problematic for a number of reasons. The limitations of rational approaches to policy-making arise from an insufficient account of the political context, insufficient emphasis on the participants in the process (and their conflicting interests) and the 'ideal type' nature of the models themselves (Dalton et al, 1996, p.17). A positivist view of policy-making asserts policy solutions as universal truths waiting to be discovered by the so-called policy 'expert'. Hillyard and Watson (1996, p.324) argue that this perception denies the constitutive role of discourse. In short, a positivist epistemology is not an adequate position for researchers and policy analysts aiming to explore and understand how policy meanings are discursively constructed, how regulatory functions of the state are being transformed and how policy actors represent and articulate policy problems and solutions. By focusing on 'objective' outcomes and grand narratives of 'progress', 'rationality' and 'truth', we remain blind to the multifaceted nature of policy-making processes. Positivist accounts of the social world do not recognize the constructive nature of discursive processes that produce knowledge and identities, or how conflict over policy meanings is manifested within specific policy environments. While not denying the place of positivist informed research in social planning, this paradigm is limited when it comes to understanding questions of power as experienced in the production, reproduction and transformation of policy agendas. As Yanow (1996, p.6) argues. 'positivist knowledge does not give us information about meanings made by actors in a situation. When we read a policy we see more than just marks on a page. we hear more than just sound waves'. Exploring the discursive dimensions of policy-making requires alternative theoretical frameworks and epistemologies that are able to capture the processes of subjectification and the relationship between agency, identity and discourse in local policy contexts. The various strands of critical social theory and post-structuralism are areas of theorizing that offer social policy researchers different ways of thinking about language and culture.

==2nc psycho bad / fails== 


If psycho fails, then none of the affs args are true 
Tetlock 1— psychology and pol sci, Ohio State. PhD in psychology, Yale—AND—J. M. Goldgeier—pol sci, George Wash U. PhD in pol sci, UC Berkeley (P.E., Psychology and International Relations Theory, http://www.kafkapizechust.com/psychology-and-international-relations-theory/453/, AMiles)

At first glance, the central macro-level theories of international politics appear to rely on minimal assumptions about human cognition and motivation. For realists, states are power or security maximizers; for liberals and neoliberal institutionalists, they are wealth or utility maximizers. For constructivists, human nature is itself a social construction and the appropriate focus is on the intricate webs of normative understanding that shape and are shaped by international actors. Although most scholars in these traditions believe that their models have little or no need to rely on psychological models of individual and group behavior, we argue in this review that they are wrong for a host of interrelated reasons. They are wrong partly because when we scrutinize what these traditions trumpet as their most distinctive explanatory achievements, we discover that their capacity to explain relevant trends or events hinges on a wider range of implicit psychological assumptions that it is useful to make explicit. In this sense, these macro theorists are already more psychological than they think. And when we shift at¬tention to each tradition’s explanatory shortcomings, we believe these can be at least partly corrected by incorporating other psychological assumptions into the conceptual frameworks. In this sense, these macro theories are not as psychological as they should be. We also argue that one of the major benefits of weaving psychological analysis into the fabric of international relations theorizing will be the gradual unveiling of boundary conditions on the applicability of competing frameworks.

Newest studies say you’re wrong and we are right 
Berlin 9 – Heather A. is an American neuroscientist focusing on brain-behavior relationships affecting the prevention and treatment of psychiatric disorders AND Christof Koch "Defense Mechanisms: Neuroscience Meets Psychoanalysis" April 13 Scientific American www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=neuroscience-meets-psychoanalysis

Advances in technologies such as functional magnetic resonance imaging permit scientists to directly measure brain activity. This ability has led to a revival and reconceptualization of key psychoanalytic concepts, based on the idea of inner forces outside our awareness that influence our behavior. According to psychodynamic theory, unconscious dynamic processes defensively remove anxiety-provoking thoughts and impulses from consciousness in response to our conflicting attitudes. The processes that keep unwanted thoughts from entering consciousness are known as defense mechanisms and include repression, suppression and dissociation. Suppression is the voluntary form of repression proposed by Sigmund Freud in 1892. It is the conscious process of pushing unwanted, anxiety-provoking thoughts, memories, emotions, fantasies and desires out of awareness. Suppression is more amenable to controlled experiments than is repression, the unconscious process of excluding painful memories, thoughts and impulses from consciousness. If you are grieving over the death of a loved one or the breakup of a relationship, you may consciously decide to suppress thinking about the situation to get on with your life. Or, in another example, you may have an impulse to tell your boss what you really think about him and his abysmal behavior, but you suppress this thought because you need the job. In both cases, the desire is conscious but is thwarted by the exercise of willpower resulting from a rational decision to avoid the action. The impulse or drive may display itself in other ways, however: you may develop a nervous cough around your boss even though you are not sick. Or a suppressed sexual desire may resurface in a careless phrase or slip of the tongue. In general, “forgotten” thoughts, memories and urges can influence behaviors, conscious thoughts and feelings and can express themselves as symptoms or even as mental illness. Although some claim that suppression is a psychoanalytical myth with no scientific support, fMRI data suggest otherwise. Psychologist Michael C. Anderson, now at St. Andrews University in Scotland, and his colleagues carried out what they call a “think/no-think” experiment to explore the brain basis of memory suppression. Two dozen volunteers had to memorize 48 word pairs (for example, ordeal-roach or steam-train). Subsequently, while lying in a scanner, subjects were shown the first cue word and had to either recall the second, associated word (called the respond condition) or prevent it from entering consciousness (suppress condition). Actively suppressing the matched word while lying in the scanner had the effect of reducing recall of the word afterward (as compared with the respond condition); this result is not just simple forgetting that occurs with the passage of time. The imaging data that Anderson and his colleagues collected showed that the volunteers suppressed the words by recruiting parts of the brain involved in “executive control,” namely, areas in the prefrontal cortex, to disengage processing in sectors of the brain important for memory formation and retrieval, in particular the hippocampus. This finding is noteworthy because earlier experiments showed that the amplitude of activity in the hippocampus is proportional to memory recall—the stronger the activity, the higher the likelihood of remembering. A second intriguing observation is that the brain is more active when avoiding recalling a memory than during recall itself. People suppress unwanted memories by exerting willful effort that can be tracked in the nervous system in ways only dreamed of by Freud—who was, after all, a neuroscientist by training.



==Link—Hegemony== 

Hegemony projects our anxiety and paranoia onto the world—creates self-fulfilling prophecies that make war inevitable—all of their arguments are ideologically loaded—this evidence will smoke them 
Hoggett 4—prof of politics and co-dir. of Center for Psycho-Social Studies, U West England. Degree in social psychology, U Sussex—AND—Dr. Simon Clarke—prof of psycho-social studies and co-dir. of the center. (The Empire of Fear: The American Political Psyche and the Culture of Paranoia, http://www.btinternet.com/~psycho_social/Vol5/JPSS5-PHSC1.htm, AMiles)

The image of Prometheus has often been used as a metaphor to describe the conjoining of capitalist and technological development, something which has unleashed processes of modernisation, the like of which have never been seen before (Landes 1969). The metaphor of `Prometheus Unbound’, once used by Shelley as descriptor for the Industrial Revolution in the 19th Century, now seems an apt image for American economic, military and cultural power at the beginning of the new century. Prometheus represents humanity’s freedom to rebel against the God’s, a rage against the arbitrary finality of mortality. But whilst Prometheus is noble hubris and grandiosity also mark his stance – the creations of his imagination will displace the divine. Therefore, like other less clamorous and dynamic narcissants, the Promethean is one also contemptuous of limits and incapable of (inter)relations. Alone in a world of his own creation. In her classic paper on narcissism Joan Riviere (1936) insists `we should not be deceived by the positive aspects of narcissism but should look deeper, for the depression that will be found to underlie it’ (p.368). Fear is now an abiding, pervasive and dominant affect in American life and has been since the Second World War. However this relates to a paradox that the ancient Greeks knew so well. Lying at the very heart of the hubris of an individual or nation that believes in its omniscience lies fear, fear of its own capacity for self-annihilation. Speaking of the narcissistic character, Rivierre noted that ultimately this individual lives in `fear of his own suicide or madness’; this is the essence of what she calls his depressive anxiety. It is necessary therefore to focus upon this dark side of the new Promethean for this is a figure wracked by guilt and anxiety concerning the destructive consequences of his creative powers. First there is internal destruction. In a recent bestseller, The Culture of Fear: Why Americans are Afraid of the Wrong Things, Barry Glassner (1999) investigates a range of social anxieties which have beset the American psyche, from panics about smack and gunslinging black teenagers to scares about satanic abuse and internet addiction. The book is a rich description of some of the fears that haunt the contemporary American psyche but it is ultimately disappointing for it offers little insight into the deeper cultural anxieties that the American media so cleverly exploits. What Glassner highlights, without ever examining, is the internal destruction consequent upon the American mode of development. The USA is a grossly unequal society and one in which structural inequality remains steadfastly mapped onto questions of race and class. Right at the end of his book Glassner briefly examines the source of the moral panics he has described, suggesting that they are `oblique expressions of concern about problems Americans know to be pernicious but have not taken decisive action to quash – problems such as hunger, dilapidated schools, gun proliferation, and deficient health care for much of the US population’ (Glassner p.209). No more vivid expression of this social divisiveness can be found than in statistics regarding prison populations. According to recent Home Office (2000) figures, Britain, the worst offender in Europe, has a prison population of 72,000, equivalent to 139 per 100,000 people (Norway has 59). But the US tops the table with 686 per 100,000 (compared to China’s 111 and Brazil’s 133). The US prison population currently stands at 1.96 million people, an astronomical figure, the overwhelming proportion of whom are black men, and the US government spends more on imprisonment than on higher education! Contrary to the belief that the US exemplifies an effective multicultural society what we see is a severely restricted multiculturalism in which racial divisions, focusing upon the exclusion of African-Americans and Latinos, are more entrenched than ever. This has led some commentators to suggest that the US’s failure to understand global inequality and its incomprehension at the rage that many peoples feel towards it is an expression of its own inability to understand the sharpness of its own internal differences (Shapiro 2003). But social disintegration in the US is not just mapped along racial lines. As the effects of decades of neo-Liberal social and fiscal policies accumulate it is increasingly clear that in the US the concept of a `safety net’, central to the post-war settlement in western type democracies, has all but disappeared. As a consequence, and this has been glimpsed in some of Richard Sennett’s (1998) recent work, failure can now have catastrophic psychological and material effects even upon the American middle classes. The result seems to be a form of `moral isolationism', which is spreading through American society, a feeling that there is no-one and no-thing to rely upon. And whilst associationism, despite Putnam’s (2000) gloomy prognostications, still seems to be a strong feature of civic culture in the USA, with a few exceptions, such as strong faith communities, this offers little consolation when the chips are really down. In the absence of collective solutions to shared risk Americans fall back upon themselves. But this is not healthy individualism but social anomie, an isolationism fueled by those survival anxieties which were first glimpsed by Christopher Lasch (1985). There exists a second reservoir of guilt and anxiety, which is intimately connected to the destructive creativity of the American Prometheus. This can be traced back to the hideous and monstrous child that America, more than any other, nurtured from conception through to realisation. A monstrous child, Little Boy by name, which was unleashed upon the ordinary civilians of Hiroshima. The first of countless thousands of such children which, along with consequences of other monstrous biological and chemical conceptions, now constitute the exterminating logic of modernity. Let us not forget who unleashed the first Weapon of Mass Destruction and the imprint that this act must have left upon the collective psyche of the perpetrator. Within a few years a whole genre of sci-fi American B movies, paperbacks and comics was flourishing in which the theme of mutation was a constant motif (Jancovich 1996). This was the return of the repressed, or, rather, the annihilated. A whole culture of paranoia was developing; partly fueled by the Cold War, a culture that remains a potent dimension of the American psyche to this day. Richard Hofstadter (1979) described how this culture of paranoia infused American politics. Describing the paranoid style of the American politician, Hofstadter argues that whilst retaining some of the characteristics of the clinical paranoiac - overheated, oversuspicious, overaggressive, grandiose, and apocalyptic in expression – this character does not perceive that the hostile and conspiratorial world is necessarily directed at him. Rather he sees all that is bad and evil directed at his nation, his culture and his way of life (Hofstadter, p.4). This has been typical of new right politics for many years and, for example, has resulted in persecutory immigration policies designed to protect ways of life that are often fictitious and based in phantasy. In a recent essay, Jason Cowley (2001) argues that this culture, despite its religiosity, `is essentially an entertainment culture, addicted to narratives of catastrophe’ in everything from film right through to computer games. Sat astride the pinnacle of this culture is Tom Clancy, the best-selling, Reagan-adoring writer of fiction such as the Sum of all Fears which presciently described the hijacking by Arab militants of civilian planes which were then used as weapons against the American people. Fiction becomes fact. America looks into the mirror of the world and sees an enemy, an enemy which if not contained will spread. Thus the `domino theory’, given vivid expression by Harry.S. Truman who succeeded Roosevelt as US President in 1944, a `theory’ which justified American intervention in Greece, Turkey and countless Latin American countries during the Cold War, inspired the Vietnam tragedy and now `the War on Terror’ in which a febrile Islam is imagined to be spreading rhizome-like around the edges of the `free world’. But who is this enemy if not Thanatos, Little Boy and all his heirs, the dark echoes of the idealisation of the American way of life - a variety and quantity of weapons of mass destruction which are now, like China’s citizens, almost beyond enumeration? In 2000 American defence expenditure stood at $295bn, this exceeded the combined expenditure of the rest of the world by almost $30bn. This year, 2003, it is set to rise by a further 14%, the biggest leap in over two decades, as a new generation of tactical nuclear weaponry, outlined in Rumsfeld’s `nuclear posture review’ of the previous year, is actively contemplated by the National Nuclear Security Agency (Guardian 2003). Despite the caution of John Quincy Adams, America’s sixth president, not to go `in search of monsters to destroy’, Rumsfeld and Co. are clearly bent on fostering the conditions that will keep this species sustainable for decades to come (and the US defence industry by the way). Such an overwhelming degree of military superiority betrays not just the extent of American ambitions for global hegemony but also the extent of America’s fear. Returning to Riviere, she notes how depressive anxiety gives rise to its own special defence, the manic defence. In place of vulnerability there is omnipotence and specifically an attitude of contempt and depreciation for the relationships upon which the narcissist depends. Listening to Richard Perle and other architects of the Project for the New American Century this contempt – for the United Nations, `Old Europe’ and countries which cannot or will not embrace the neo-conservative brand of modernisation – is explicit and worn with smirking pride. Contemplating the demise of the UN after the war on Iraq, Perle notes that `whilst the chatterbox on the Hudson will continue to bleat’ what will die `is the fantasy of the UN as the foundation of the new world order’ (Perle 2003). He then unleashes an apparently clinical demolition of the repeated failure of the Security Council to act against breaches of international law without providing even the faintest of hints that in truth it has been the US which has most consistently used its veto on the Security Council – nine times in all since 1990 against the four vetos cast by the other four members combined during the same period. And whilst we’re on the subject of inaction in the face of breaches of international law we’d do well to remember that over the last thirty years the USA has vetoed 34 UN resolutions on Israel and has consistently supported Israel’s routine violations of UN resolution 242 to which the US is a signatory. What we have here is both cold cunning – there is no room for the UN as a countervailing source of authority in `the Project’ – and a paranoia about the world which has become so routine that it is not even aware of itself. Allusions to `threat’ and `security’ run like a thread throughout the brief manifesto of the Project, that is, its `Statement of Principles’. But what makes this paranoia, instead of a rational fear response to the real threats that exist to American hegemony around the world? The massive overkill, the self-fulfilling nature of so many American interventions, the uncanny knack that American foreign policy has displayed of making its worst fears come true, the classic paranoid conviction that one is the misunderstood victim and never the perpetrator, the complete inability to perceive how ones own `defensive actions’ are experienced by the other as provocation and threat – wherever we look, the `arms race’ with the Soviet Union, the run-up to the Cuban Missile Crisis, fear of communist contagion in S.E Asia and Latin America, the current `war on terrorism’ and `containment’ of N.Korea we see the same mixture of provocation, ineptness and misunderstanding. In his recent book on paranoia, David Bell (2003) notes how the fears that the paranoid is subject to are the echo of what has become alien(ated). In this way Melanie Klein adds a twist to our understanding of alienation by insisting that what we project into the world forever threatens to return and haunt us. Bell notes how films such as Alien and The Conversation vividly depict this. Indeed Klein argues that through projective identification the other can become subject to control by self, in subtle ways becoming nudged and coerced into enacting what is put into them. In this way paranoia can become self-fulfilling and it really does seem as if the world is out to get you. God’s chosen people Estimates suggest that well over 60% of the citizens of the USA engage in religious worship on a regular basis – in Britain the figure is more like 7%. Christian fundamentalism has become particularly powerful in the USA since the late 1960’s, perhaps as the backlash towards 60’s `godlessness’. But these fundamentalist movements seem to be simply the tip of the iceberg that is modern American religiosity. Indeed, as Karen Armstrong (2001) noted, the concept of `fundamentalism’ was first coined to characterise the emergence of charismatic religious movements in N.America at the beginning of the twentieth century. In fact God and America have walked hand in hand ever since the Founding Fathers. This has found a powerful and consistent expression in the politics of the United States, and particularly in its foreign policy, where analysts have coined the phrase `American exceptionalism’ to describe the belief that `the United States is an extraordinary nation with a special role to play in human history’ (McCrisken 2001). Almost from the beginning of the occupation by European settlers N.America has been construed as a promised land and its citizens a chosen people. The New World was, in this sense contrasted with the Old, a world of famine, war and intolerance from which many of these settlers had fled. McCrisken provides countless indications of this exceptionalist belief system from George Washington to Bill Clinton but all are characterised by certain common suppositions – that America is the land of the free, that its intentions are inherently benevolent, that inside every non-American there is an American struggling to get out and, perhaps most importantly given the War on Terror and the occupation of Iraq, that the US is the embodiment of universal human values based on the rights of all mankind – freedom, democracy and justice. Weinberg (1935) described this in terms of the belief in `manifest destiny’ which gave successive administrations in the nineteenth century the sense of America’s special mission to bring freedom to the peoples of the world, as in the Mexican War or the Spanish-American War which led to the `liberation’ of Cuba. Today the sense of manifest destiny is no less strong but now it is garbed in the cloak of `modernisation’ – the belief that all societies pass through certain stages of development (from traditional to modern) and that the West, and particularly the United States, is the common endpoint towards which all peoples must irresistibly move. Of course, this is Fukuyama’s `end of history’ and it is perhaps no surprise to find him to be (along with Rumsfeld, Wolfowitz & Co.) one of the 25 signatories to the Statement of Principles (written in June 1997) of the Project for the New American Century – the neo-Conservative manifesto which now directs American and British foreign policy. The point about all this is that this very idealisation of America by Americans, its self-identification with virtue, contributes enormously both to its innocence and to its arrogance. There is often a real generosity of spirit and a friendly naivete which strikes the non-American (at least the English ones) when encountering an American citizen. One thinks of the countless jokes about the American as an `innocent abroad’ captured in the image of the gawping American tourist. But there is also the arrogance added to this, an arrogance which leads even hard nosed strategists to assume that invading troops need know nothing about the peoples that they are about to `liberate’, a mistake which had tragic consequences in Somalia and is now being repeated in Iraq. Moreover this is an arrogance which leaves Americans with such a strong sense that they have virtue on their side, and it is this that has provided the fertile ground for the splitting and paranoia which has been such a feature of the American view of the world since the Second World War. Again, if we return to Hofstadter's ideas about American politics we can see this paranoid belief in a vast and sinister conspiracy which is set out to undermine and destroy a way of life. Indeed for Hofstadter, `the paranoid spokesman sees the fate of this conspiracy in apocalyptic terms - he traffics in the birth and death of whole worlds, whole political orders, whole systems of human values. He is always manning the barricades of civilization’ (Hofstadter 1979, p.29). Three decades on and this still sounds very familiar. One thinks of the `fighting talk’ of George Bush in the war on Iraq, in the fight against the Axis of Evil, and the struggle against global terrorism - fighting terror with terror, the talion morality of the paranoid schizoid position, destroying and re-creating political systems, acting as the purveyor of civilization to the world. This then, is a world in which American society has been called upon to resist the spreading evils, first of communism, now of militant Islam. Moreover, it has been this splitting of good and evil which fueled the rise of McCarthyism in the 1950’s and which is threatening American civil liberties today. Injured narcissism In 'Notes on Some Schizoid Mechanisms' Melanie Klein (1946) describes the destructive and controlling nature of the narcissistic state of mind. A typical feature of paranoid object relations is their narcissistic nature, for in reality the objects to which the paranoid individual or group relates are representations of their alienated selves. Moreover the narcissistic relationship has strong obsessional features, and in particular the need to control others, to remain omnipotent and all powerful. David Bell develops this theme in his commentary on Mike Davis’s recent NLR article (Davis 2001) in which he notes that the resort, following September 11th, to increasingly pervasive forms of security and control within the USA actually contributes the very anxiety these measures seek to address. Bell argues, `the grandiose demand for complete security creates ever more, in our minds, enemies endowed with our own omnipotence who are imagined as seeking to control us’ (Bell, p.37). But what happens when this narcissism is injured, omnipotence punctured? In the real world, as opposed to the world of the imaginary, this attitude of omnipotence is repeatedly subject to disconfirmation. McCrisken (2003) refers to the `Vietnam syndrome’ as a defining element of American foreign policy since the 1970’s, something which formed the backdrop to the first Gulf War through which it reached a partial and incomplete resolution. Vietnam was a trauma for the USA in two ways. The American claim to have a monopoly on virtue was destroyed by successive scandals, atrocities and outrages, in fact they were revealed to be as savage as any other occupying power. Jean-Paul Sartre (1968) famously argued that the war waged by America on Vietnam was implicitly genocidal. Indeed for Sartre, the war in Vietnam signified a new stage in the development of imperialism - 'it is the greatest power on earth against a poor peasant people. Those who fight it are living out the only possible relationship between an over-industrialized country and an under-developed country, that is to say, a genocidal relationship implemented through racism' (p.42). Worse still, they lost the war, against one of the most economically backward societies imaginable the might of American military power came to nought. The impact of Vietnam was such that the USA virtually avoided direct military involvement for twenty five years, preferring indirect involvement (encouraging and equipping Iraq versus Iran, Afghanistan versus the Soviet Union) or direct engagement in situations such as tiny Grenada where they could hardly lose. The Vietnam Syndrome also encouraged the development of an approach to warfare which gave maximum emphasis to the use of air power and the avoidance of ground troops, something exemplified by the intervention in Kosovo and, later, Afghanistan. We can also understand the Vietnam Syndrome in terms of Freud’s work on trauma and his notions of repetition and working through. Trauma (whether loss of limb or sexual abuse) is an attack upon the narcissistic organisation of the psyche/body, it is experienced as loss which is irreparable. But loss can be managed sufficiently for a life to move on, and for this to occur a place in the psyche/culture needs to be found in which some of the shock, rage, horror and grief can be addressed symbolically. And for a while in the 1970’s elements of the liberal American intelligentsia were able to initiate such a process through critical self-analysis, literature, film and music. But a quite different response, based upon a manic form of denial, was waiting in the wings. Freud notes how a child may engage in the repetition of traumatic experience in an attempt to magically overcome it by reversing the subject/object relationship, by becoming master rather than victim. But this is a `working through’ by enactment, an attempt to `act upon’ reality rather than understand it. Thus the `action movie’ and the `action hero’ of the Hollywood movies which began in the 1970’s featuring Schwarzenegger, Jean Claude Van Damme, and, later, Bruce Willis. But, more seriously, we can also see the same process of `working through’ in terms of the search to re-enact in reverse the humiliation of Vietnam but this time with the US as master. The first Gulf War only partially accomplishes this, Saddam remains unfinished business for many of the neo-conservatives gathering with Rumsfeld and Wolfowitz in the late 1990’s. It is in this context that we can understand September 11th . For September 11th was a second huge narcissistic injury for the USA and the current war on Iraq is a further attempt at `working through’. As by now is absolutely clear (and openly admitted by Wolfowitz) the existence of Weapons of Mass Destruction in Iraq was the pretext for an intervention which had quite different motives. These motives were partly strategic (oil, the need to find an alternative to Saudi Arabia as a forward base for US forces in the region) but they were also partly simply about the reassertion of American power against a more fulfilling target than the Taliban in Afghanistan. They set about `finishing the job’ begun by Bush Snr and achieving `closure’, closing the narcissistic wound opened up by Vietnam and never properly healed. Psychotic Anxieties, Splitting and September 11th If we think psychoanalytically about the events leading up to the war on Iraq, then the starting point is the twin towers - September 11th . Its not easy to forget the horror of that day. There was no absence of bodies then. Horrific scenes of people jumping out of windows, running for life, mangled and dismembered corpses. On September 11th we witnessed true annihilation, not a film, just annihilation. As Cowley (2001) acutely observed, `Islamic terrorists appropriated the destructive impulses of American entertainment culture, making of a nation’s apocalyptic fantasies a terrifying actuality, as if they were attempting to speak to the Americans in their own language’. This was a massive attack on the security of the American nation. As Hanna Segal (2002) noted, the trauma of the terrorist attack had an added dynamic 'the crushing realisation that there is somebody out there who actually hates you to the point of annihilation'. It is now commonplace to say that the USA lost its innocence on September 11th. But what it really lost was its embrace of the imaginary. Until that day the American psyche had been consumed by a helpless fascination with a fictional threat, or rather a series of fictional threats; on September 11th they received the shock of the real. `Welcome to the world’ some people said. Suddenly Americans became as vulnerable as the rest of us. The immediate response to September 11th was bewilderment and incredulity. Again, as Segal noted, the question on most American lips was `why’? It is a common reaction for people in trauma situations to think that people are out to get them, ‘in the case of the terrorist attacks it is actually a true fact. One’s worst nightmares come true’. Segal added another dimension - the symbolism of the twin towers and the Pentagon. This is very important if we are to try and understand the meanings and motivations behind the war on Iraq. So, the symbolism equates to ‘we are all-powerful, with our weapons, finance, high tech - we can dominate you completely’. The suicide bombers destroyed this omnipotence. As Segal noted: we were pushed into a world of terror versus terror, disintegration and confusion. The shock was followed by mourning and barely contained anxiety. The president of the United States of America appeared on global television networks as `the child adult’, a little boy lost. At first he seemed quite inadequate to the part that was being demanded of him. It almost looked like he wanted to run – asking, `why me’? For weeks the USA was gripped by a wave of panics about anthrax and other impending attacks. But traces of American triumphalism were being quickly reasserted. The flags which, from Maine to Arizona, first hung from poles and windows in grief quickly transmuted into a sign of strength and resolution, and later, to bellicosity. This other mood could also be discerned in homage to the courage of fire crews and emergency service personnel and to the passengers who overcame the hi-jackers on the fourth plane (`let’s roll’). But rage took time to gather. Many liberals and leftists in Europe anticipated an outpouring of vengeful rhetoric from the Republicans, but it did not come. Rather, the response was surprisingly measured and multilateral. And whilst many opposed the war of the `coalition against terror’ against Afghanistan, at least the connection with September 11th seemed obvious – Al Quaeda was clearly being protected by the Taliban regime. It was only when this phyric victory had been swiftly achieved that a shift, symbolised by the `Axis of Evil’ speech in January 2002, into a more paranoid and in-your-face triumphalist discourse began. The question of weapons of mass destruction became central to the moral and ethical charge for war. Was there any proof of their existence? The weapons inspectors could find none, yet we were told time after time that clear evidence existed, even though the documents cited had very little credibility. Again, as Hofstadter noted, the typical procedure of higher paranoid scholarship is to start by accumalating facts, or what appear to be facts to establish 'proof' that a conspiracy exists - the paranoid mentality seeks a coherence that reality cannot provide. Indeed for Hofstadter, `what distinguishes the paranoid style is not, then, the absence of verifiable facts (though it is occasionally true that in his extravagant passion for facts the paranoid occasionally manufactures them), but rather the curious leap in imagination that is always made at some critical point in the recital of events.’ (Hofstadter 1979, p.39). The deployment of reason and strategic cunning becomes unpinned by the apocalyptic vision of paranoid politics. Destroying the Bad Object Classically, in a paranoid schizoid state, manic defenses are called into play. The splitting of good and bad, processes of idealisation and denigration, as we have seen, lead us to perceive the world in dichotomous relationships between good and bad. The bad object/other becomes the fixation point of our anger, fear, rage and paranoia. Excessive projection leaves the individual in mortal fear of an attack from the bad object. Thus we try and destroy this object, lest it comes back to destroy us. The question arises though, as to what happens when these destructive forces are unable to find a satisfactory object. Despite the measured and multi-lateral nature of the intervention there was still something murderous and retaliatory about the attack on the people of Afghanistan. An attack based in the talion morality of the paranoid schizoid position - an eye for an eye. The problem with the war in Afghanistan against the Taliban was there was no sense of gratification and the lust to get equal was never satisfied. There are several reasons for this. First, the bombing of Afghanistan simply wasn’t enough to either exact revenge, or to demonstrate the power of the Apocalypse - you cannot bomb the stone age back into the stone age even though, as Sartre (1968, p.40) had noted over thirty years earlier, this had already been attempted in Vietnam with disastrous effects. Second, Bin Laden disappeared, vaporised - there was no bad object to destroy. Finally, the exercise of military might, of unadulterated power had nothing to be powerful over - power only exists if people are the objects of that power. Instead we seemed to have an increasingly paranoid American population and its government on the one hand and disappearing enemy bodies on the other. And then came the `Axis of Evil’ speech and a further ratcheting up of the spiral of splitting, projection, paranoid phantasy, and defensive offence. White House rhetoric began providing florid depictions of a world divided between good and evil in which there was no `in between’, `you are either with us or you are against us’. Fakhry Davids (2002) notes that the events of September 11th were brought home vividly to us by the wall to wall media coverage - the shocking images of the planes crashing into the twin towers of the World Trade Centre, and then its collapse. Psychically unbearable events, argues Davids, call into play powerful defences whose aim is to protect us from perceived danger. For Davids, the extent to which the event has been reframed in stereotyped racist terms is apparent everywhere, ‘the problem has now been reduced to a conflict between the enlightened, civilised, tolerant, freedom loving, clean living democrat versus the bearded, robed, Kalashnikov bearing bigoted, intolerant, glint in the eye fundamentalist fanatic, or viewed from the other side, the humble believer with God on his side versus the infidel armed with all the worldly might of the devil’ (Davids 2002, p.362). For Davids, it is difficult for us to find neutral ground - you are either with us, or against us - which side are you on? This reduction of a complex situation into black and white, good and bad is a paranoid solution to intense anxiety which reinforces the self-idealisation which we have seen lies at the heart of American exceptionalism. As Davids notes, such a world view makes us feel that we know who we are, and may justify actions that make us feel better. The problem is that we don’t face the problem. There have been many arguments about why America and Britain decided to wage war on Iraq. All quite plausible in their own right - Saddam the evil dictator, Saddam the murderer of his own people, then there are the economic, the oil, the money to be made from reconstructing the country, the geo-political, securing the middle east - stopping a snowball of violence, and of course harbouring the terrorist. Then of course there are the weapons of mass destruction, yet to be found, despite the documentation of the paranoid conspirators. All these explanations contribute to a fuller picture, but as David Hare (2003) recently wrote, the main motivation behind this war was a simply assertion of American power, `the feral pleasure of the flex’. Uppity Saddam had dared to piss on the boots of Uncle Sam. A lesson in respect was due. An annihilatory lesson aimed at the global (and not just Islamic) psyche. But we’ve been here before. This is Sartre (1968, p.42) again on Vietnam, `when a peasant falls in his rice paddy, mowed down by a machine gun, everyone of us is hit…. The group which the United States wants to intimidate and terrorize by way of the Vietnamese nation is the human group in its entirety’. Not just an attack but an annihilatory one aimed at the Iraqi body, its government, its history and its country – an attempt at vaporisation - an apocalyptic vision - such is the style of paranoid politics. And for a while the world did look on in shock and awe. Empty Boots, Empty Tanks, Empty Buildings According to Baudrillard (1994), `Coppola makes his films like the Americans make war… with the same immoderation, the same excess of means, the same monstrous candour… and the same success. The war as entrenchment, as technological and psychedelic fantasy, the war as a succession of special effects, the war becomes film even before being filmed… a test site, a gigantic territory in which to test their arms, their methods, their power.’ America had a choice after September 11th. It could have joined much of the rest of the world in its shared sense of vulnerability and interdependence. But, once more, America chose denial and magic. Denial of the real and a manic reassertion of omnipotence. The war on Iraq was a demonstration of pure and total power. It became sanitised as a film of all the elements that might obstruct or resist power. There were no bodies, just empty tanks, boots and buildings that were endlessly pounded as a demonstration of shock andawe. The Iraqi bodies disappeared, the presidential guard disappeared and then Saddam disappeared, as did the mighty Republican Guard and, oh yes, it seems so have the weapons of mass destruction. Peter Preston (2003) commented along similar lines, `the missing link, for those of us watching far away is death: the bodies of the men and women who have died’. Preston argued that the televised war turned away from the reality of the situation. Nobody wanted to see dead bodies, wounded soldiers or civilians suffering. We can watch the bombs falling, but not see the effect - ‘the dead become undead for photographic purposes’. In Britain, the first time we saw blood and bodies, despite the apocalyptic first night of the cruise missiles, was a report by John Simpson two weeks into the war. Simpson (2003) was with a convey of Kurdish fighters and American special forces when they came under attack from American warplanes: "This is just a scene from hell here. All the vehicles on fire. There are bodies burning around me, there are bodies lying around, there are bits of bodies on the ground. This is a really bad own goal by the Americans" . The very graphic images were even worse, broadcast on BBC television - blood dripping down the windscreen of a vehicle while the reporter sat inside. The cameraman wiping blood from the lens of the camera with his fingers. It was as if the full horror of war had suddenly hit the world. We could at last see the very symbolic and sickening images of a real, as opposed to a hyperreal war. It is paradoxical that there has been more emphasis on casualties since the end of the war. Some conclusions The destruction of the world trade centre was a terrible event in world history, a terrible shock to the American psyche and brought terrible traumas to the ordinary citizens of New York. For the USA as the only world power, the bubble was burst. Coppolla wasn’t there, or even Bruce Willis to protect the ordinary person in the street - the terrorists struck at the very heart of America. The tables, however, were turned and the Middle East temporarily succumbed to the (film) show of power (with no casualties), the show that should have protected the twin towers but didn’t. The problem is we cannot have war without bodies - and there cannot be power without being in relation to the other. Despite the fact the neo-Conservatives were itching to take on Saddam before Bush even got into office, despite the fact that for some of these strategists September 11th was therefore both a shock and an opportunity sent from heaven, despite the long period of military preparation and the diplomatic side-show conducted by that naïve Mr Blair that accompanied it, despite all this the occupation of Iraq looks like being a piece of inept foreign policy making in the best traditions of American irrationalism. Little thought appears to have been given to what happens once the military occupation was achieved, to the problem of law and order or to reviving the basic infrastructure. Little thought appears to have been given to the possibility that armed Saddam loyalists might `melt’ into the night in order to fight a sustained campaign of sabotage and guerilla warfare or that the repressed Shias might quickly fill the power vacuum left by the collapse of the Baathists and look to their theocratic Shia neighbours in Iran as guide and model. Little thought seems to have been given to an exit strategy and, as the situation deteriorates, the obvious solution – call for the UN to pick up the pieces – can only be reached for if an enormous chunk of humble pie is swallowed. Besides, the Project for the New American Century is not concerned to restore any legitimacy to this `Old World’ institution. To return to more or less where we began, it is impossible to stress enough the narcissistic and fearful character of contemporary American power. This is a power based in a paranoid syle of politics and expressed from a seemingly omnipotent position. Five decades of a growing ascendancy have encouraged the fantasy that there really are no limits, a delusional belief system has become corroborated by reality. Well almost. God’s chosen people really have acquired a technical, military and economic superiority, which seems to make interdependence unnecessary. But this is the problem of the narcissant, the attack upon relatedness. That America can destroy (like in Afghanistan) there can be no doubt, but it has little or no capacity to build or create beyond that which can be included within a commodified mode of relatedness – it has lost the capacity to rebuild states or civil societies (witness the continued degradation of the former Soviet Bloc). America, the Empire of Fear, now stands as the major threat to global society.

The logic of hegemony invokes a permanent state of emergency that masks our paranoid neurosis—the idea we can deter invisible threats invokes a dangerous form of political engagement that guarantees extinction 
Zizek 5—prof, Sociology, University of Ljubljana (Slavoj, Give Iranian Nukes a Chance, http://www.lacan.com/zizekiranian.htm, AMiles)

But are nuclear arms in the hands of Iran's rulers really a threat to international peace and security? To answer the question properly, one has to locate it in its political and ideological context. Every power structure has to rely on an underlying implicit threat, i.e. whatever the oficial democratic rules and legal constraints may be, we can ultimately do whatever we want to you. In the 20th century, however, the nature of this link between power and the invisible threat that sustains it changed. Existing power structures no longer relied on their own fantasmatic projection of a potential, invisible threat in order to secure the hold over their subjects. Rather, the threat was externalized, displaced onto an Outside Enemy. It became the invisible (and, for that reason, all-powerful and omni-present) threat of this enemy that legitimized the existing power structure's permanent state of emergency. Fascists invoked the threat of the Jewish conspiracy, Stalinists the threat of the class enemy, Americans the threat of Communism-all the way up to today's "war on terror." The threats posed by such an invisible enemy legitimizes the logic of the preemptive strike. Precisely because the threat is virtual, one cannot afford to wait for it to come. Rather, one must strike in advance, before it is too late. In other words, the omni-present invisible threat of Terror legitimizes the all too visible protective measures of defense-which, of course, are what pose the true threat to democracy and human rights (e.g., the London police's recent execution of the innocent Brazilian electrician, Jean Charles de Menezes). Classic power functioned as a threat that operated precisely by never actualizing itself, by always remaining a threatening gesture. Such functioning reached its climax in the Cold War, when the threat of mutual nuclear destruction had to remain a threat. With the "war on terror", the invisible threat causes the incessant actualization, not of the threat itself, but, of the measures against the threat. The nuclear strike had to remain the threat of a strike, while the threat of the terrorist strike triggers the endless series of preemptive strikes against potential terrorists. We are thus passing from the logic of MAD (Mutually Assured Destruction) to a logic in which ONE SOLE MADMAN runs the entire show and is allowed to enact its paranoia. The power that presents itself as always being under threat, living in mortal danger, and thus merely defending itself, is the most dangerous kind of power-the very model of the Nietzschean ressentiment and moralistic hypocrisy. And indeed, it was Nietzsche himself who, more than a century ago, in Daybreak, provided the best analysis of the false moral premises of today's "war on terror": No government admits any more that it keeps an army to satisfy occasionally the desire for conquest. Rather, the army is supposed to serve for defense, and one invokes the morality that approves of self-defense. But this implies one's own morality and the neighbor's immorality; for the neighbor must be thought of as eager to attack and conquer if our state must think of means of self-defense. Moreover, the reasons we give for requiring an army imply that our neighbor, who denies the desire for conquest just as much as our own state, and who, for his part, also keeps an army only for reasons of self-defense, is a hypocrite and a cunning criminal who would like nothing better than to overpower a harmless and awkward victim without any fight. Thus all states are now ranged against each other: they presuppose their neighbor's bad disposition and their own good disposition. This presupposition, however, is inhumane, as bad as war and worse. At bottom, indeed, it is itself the challenge and the cause of wars, because as I have said, it attributes immorality to the neighbor and thus provokes a hostile disposition and act. We must abjure the doctrine of the army as a means of self-defense just as completely as the desire for conquests. Is not the ongoing "war on terror" proof that "terror" is the antagonistic Other of democracy-the point at which democracy's plural options turn into a singular antagonism? Or, as we so often hear, "In the face of the terrorist threat, we must all come together and forget our petty differences." More pointedly, the difference between the "war on terror" with previous 20th century worldwide struggles such as the Cold War is that the enemy used to be clearly identified with the actually existing Communist empire, whereas today the terrorist threat is inherently spectral, without a visible center. It is a little bit like the description of Linda Fiorentino's character in The Last Seduction: "Most people have a dark side ... she had nothing else." Most regimes have a dark oppressive spectral side ... the terrorist threat has nothing else. The paradoxical result of this spectralization of the enemy is an unexpected reflexive reversal. In this world without a clearly identified enemy, it is the United States, the protector against the threat, that is emerging as the main enemy-much like in Agatha Christie's Murder on the Orient-Express, where, since the entire group of suspects is the murderer, the victim himself (an evil millionaire) turns out to be the real criminal. This background allows us to finally answer our initial question: Yes, nukes for Iran-and Noriega and Saddam to the Hague. It is crucial to see the link between these two demands. Why are Timothy Garton Ash, Michael Ignatieff and other internationalist liberals-who are otherwise full of pathetic praise for the Hague tribunal-silent about the idea to deliver Noriega and Saddam to the Hague? Why Milosevic and not Noriega? Why was there not even a public trial against Noriega? Was it because he would have disclosed his own CIA past, including how the United States condoned his participation in the murder of Omar Torrijos Herrera? In a similar way, Saddam's regime was an abominable authoritarian state, guilty of many crimes, mostly toward its own people. However, one should note the strange but key fact that, when the U.S. representatives were enumerating Saddam's evil deeds, they systematically omitted what was undoubtedly his greatest crime (in terms of human suffering and of violating international law): the aggression against Iran. Why? Because the United States and the majority of foreign states actively helped Iraq in this aggression. What's more, the United States now plans to continue Saddam's work of toppling the Iranian government. 

==Link—Deterrence== 

Deterrence fails to take into account psychological factors—only the alt solves 
Kaplowitz 90—research associate in IR, Institute of Govt Affairs, UC Davis. PhD in pol sci, Columbia (Noel, National Self-Images, Perception of Enemies, and Conflict Strategies: Psychopolitical Dimensions of International Relations, Political Psychology, 11;1,. 39-82, JSTOR, AMiles)

Implicit in competitive and deterrent strategies are perceptions of the enemy as incorrigible regarding one's own vital interests, at least for the foreseeable future (Deutsch, 1965; Hoagland and Walker, 1979, p. 143; Snyder and Diesing, 1977, pp. 188, 299), though there may be some hope that if he is deterred or coerced long enough, he may change over the long run. Prom- ises and rewards are therefore regarded as largely irrelevant. They may even be seen as dangerous and likely to encourage the enemy (Jervis, 1978, p. 196). They are not always entirely excluded, however, as means of influence. Negoti- ations may be used to try to consolidate gains, stabilize balances, postpone con- flict, or reassure nervous adversaries. Threats and punishments, however, are the means emphasized for deterring and coercing others. The credibility of a deterrent strategy necessitates punishment for ene- my transgressions regarding both explicit and implicit lines. If he is allowed to go unpunished and permitted to derive gains from his behavior, he will be reinforced in his aggression. In this respect, deterrence theory-albeit unwittingly- incorporates a fundamental principle of behaviorist psychology. Deterrence strategies also presume that the enemy is basically rational- at the very least it is hoped he is so. Therefore, he will be inhibited and will yield when faced with sufficient threat and force. If deterrence or compel- lence does not work, it is usually assumed that the threats were not credible or the punishments not massive enough. Analysis of the impact of strategy upon the adversary is typically straightforward, based on rational actor as- sumptions, and couched in terms of manifest costs and benefits (George and Smoke, 1974, pp. 54, 73-74; Morgan, 1977, pp. 79-80; Rapoport, 1964, p. 166; Snyder and Diesing, 1977, pp. 304-05). Though deterrence theory does not necessarily assume rationality on the part of the deterring actor (Mor- gan, 1977, pp. 115, 116, 119), it does presume that the enemy will be ration- al enough not to accept costs that (the actor thinks) are unacceptable to him. Competitive and deterrent actors tend to take little account of the pos- sibility that threat and force may fail because of the adversary's underlying needs to save face and recoup self-esteem. Accordingly, such actors have often failed to adequately estimate the degree to which an adversary will be deter- mined to resist threats and to take risks to attain a position of equality, if not dominance, in a conflict, precisely because of internal psychological and cultural needs which give rise to political imperatives. Taking into account such underlying needs and motives requires, in essence, subtly integrating considerations of a depth-psychological nature into more general theories of influence. Lebow (1981) has shown, analogously, how internal political weaknesses can impel states to pursue aggressive policies against powerful adversaries. While he stresses the weaknesses of leaders, the political system, and the state itself, these are among the factors which can give rise to the damaged self- images and the needs to recoup self-esteem which we emphasize here, as de- terminants of strategy. Only very recently have several studies and commen- taries begun to suggest this problematic aspect of deterrence theory, as they point to the unexpected effects upon adversary behavior of intense frustra- tion, wishful thinking, defensive denial, and desires for self-respect (Jervis, 1985a, pp. 21, 25, 28; Lebow, 1985a, p. 107; 1985b, pp. 182-83; Stein, 1985a, pp. 45, 57; 1985b, pp. 82, 86, 88). Since credibility is a crucial component of effective deterrence and com- pulsion, there is typically great concern with demonstrating one's own resolve (Snyder and Diesing, 1977, p. 188). Accordingly, there is a disposition toward confrontation on issues even if they do not touch upon vital interests (Jer- vis, 1976, pp. 58-61; Morgan: 1985; Snyder and Diesing, 1977, p. 298). This, in turn, involves the danger of creating asymmetries of motivation-situations in which an adversary becomes much more highly motivated regarding mat- ters he perceives as vital than does one's own side (George et al., 1971, pp. 22-26; George and Smoke, 1974, p. 221). In this respect, too, deterrence the- ory tends to ignore the strength of underlying motivations and has not been sufficiently attuned to considerations of a depth-psychological nature. A deterrent strategy presumes that the adversary will perceive the ac- tor, interpret his behavior, and understand his intent in the same way the actor does (or wants the adversary to see him). In some cases, with respect to some adversaries, and regarding some issues the deterring actor is right. Threat and force do, indeed, entail costs which can have an inhibitory effect on undesirable behavior. Moreover, a deterrent stance intended as defensive is sometimes seen that way. In other cases, however, the assumption that the adversary will perceive and respond to deterrence attempts in the way the actor might, or thinks the adversary will, is incorrect. A variety of psychological, cultural, historical, and political factors which impinge upon the adversary can give rise to belief systems, perceptual predispositions, and behavioral propensities which lead to actions the deterrer does not expect. Thus, deterrence theory is not always adequate regarding its implicit cognitive assumptions. Understanding how and why states react to others as they do, requires taking into account how they perceive the other's intent and in- terpret his behavior. 10 Competitive and deterrent strategies are generated by negative percep- tions of enemies who are characteristically seen as aggressive and incorrigi- ble. They also stem from particular kinds of positive and sometimes ambivalent self-images. The self-images of actors using these strategies are not so exaggerated as to lead to the belief that total and final wins are possi- ble in most cases. Nor are these actors driven by either grandiose or negative self-images to aim at such outcomes. Rather, they have positive enough im- ages to make some demands upon others and to assert themselves to try to realize their goals. They may also harbor ambivalent self-images, however, of having been too soft, naive, or insufficiently vigilant. Relatedly, they may think that others-both external enemies and, as Morgan (1985, p. 149) points out, domestic opponents-perceive them as passive, irresolute, or lacking in courage. In such cases, in addition to calculations derived from negative perceptions of the enemy's intentions, there will be internally generated needs to demonstrate to others and to one's own people, that one is active, deci- sive, and courageous, and to avoid behavior which may be perceived as projecting weakness or lack of resolve. There is then a disposition to make threats more demonstrative and punishments more massive. Such self-images may play a role in generating competitive and deterrent strategies, and will in any case add a sharp edge to them.