[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ASU</span>== 
**<span style="margin-right: -0.9pt;">Turkey currently hosts 90 U.S B-61 gravity bombs at the Incirlik Air Base – and they’re outdated </span>**
**Bell and Loehrke 09** <span style="color: black;">(Alexandra is a Truman National Security Fellow and Benjamin is a grad student at the U of Maryland, “The status of U.S. nuclear weapons in Turkey”, accessed at __http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey__ on 6/21/10dml) </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">For more than</span>****<span style="text-decoration: none;">...</span>** **value or purpose**</span>**__.__**

**<span style="margin-right: -0.9pt;">The United States TNWs deployed in TURKEY are a legacy of the Cold War in search of a new mission—and that new mission is preemption. Today, Iran is the new target of choice for nuclear war fighting. </span>**
**Greenpeace**: International, May **2006** [“Securing our safety, ensuring our survival why us nato nuclear weapons in Europe must go,” [[http://www.greenpeace.org/raw/contentinternational/press/resports/securing-our-safety.pdf%20p.14-18|http://www.greenpeace.org/raw/contentinternational/press/resports/securing-our-safety.pdf p.14-18]]] 
**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">NATO policy allows</span>__****… __patently absurd.__**

<span style="line-height: normal;">**AND Tactical Nuclear Weapons are retargeted against states like Iran, shifting nuclear policy from deterrence to war fighting and preemption—this makes offensive nuclear war inevitable.** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">**Chossudovsky** **06**, Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa, 2006 [Michael, “Is the Bush Administration Planning a Nuclear Holocaust? Will the US launch “mini-nukes” against Iran in retaliation for Tehran’s “Non-Compliance”?” Global Research, February 22, [[http://www.globablresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=2032|Http://www.globablresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=2032]]] </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%; color: black;">At no point</span>__****<span style="color: black;">…__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> to its development</span>.__ </span>**</span>

**<span style="color: black;">AND unless we break free from the current military system, this logic of Preemption will never stop—today’s global military violence is structured by a system of fear which must constantly identify and destroy new targets to keep us preemptively safe. </span>**
<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black;"> Massumi 07</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Proffesory at the European Graduate School2007 [Brian, “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Preemption,” Theory and Event 10:2 Project Muse] </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**__The War in__****…****__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%; color: black;"> be never-ending.</span>__** </span>

<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black;">AND the normalization of Preemption makes the biopolit</span>****<span style="color: black;">i</span>****<span style="color: black;">c</span>****<span style="color: black;">a</span>****<span style="color: black;">l</span>** **<span style="color: black;">c</span>****<span style="color: black;">o</span>****<span style="color: black;">n</span>****<span style="color: black;">t</span>****<span style="color: black;">r</span>****<span style="color: black;">o</span>****<span style="color: black;">l</span>** **<span style="color: black;">o</span>****<span style="color: black;">f</span>** **<span style="color: black;">l</span>****<span style="color: black;">i</span>****<span style="color: black;">f</span>****<span style="color: black;">e</span>** **<span style="color: black;">t</span>****<span style="color: black;">o</span>****<span style="color: black;">t</span>****<span style="color: black;">a</span>****<span style="color: black;">l</span>****<span style="color: black;">—</span>****<span style="color: black;">f</span>****<span style="color: black;">r</span>****<span style="color: black;">e</span>****<span style="color: black;">ed</span>****<span style="color: black;">om is violently eliminated in a state of absolute war. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Goh 06</span>**<span style="color: black;">. Visiting Fellow at Harvard, 2006 [Irving, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere,” Fast Capitalism 2.1, </span>[[http://ww.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapiatlism2_1/goh.html]]<span style="color: black;">] </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%; color: black;">At present, the</span>__****<span style="color: black;">…</span>**<span style="color: black;"> a terror suspect. </span></span>

**<span style="color: black;">A</span>****<span style="color: black;">nd</span>****<span style="color: black;">, </span>****this** **system** **of** **biopolitics** **is** **responsible** **for** **the** **worst** **atrocities** **in** **history** **– the classification of identity within the calculations of** **disciplinary** **control** **produces the population as an object of power to be controlled and managed. it is this status as subjects of power that makes warfare, genocide, and nuclear destruction both necessary and inevitable.**
**foucault, 1978** (michel, philosopher and former head chair @ <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coll%C3%A8ge_de_France|Collège de France]]</span>, the history of sexuality, pg. 136-7)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="Shrinker">Since the classical…</span> <span class="Underline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">phenomena of population.</span> </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black;">And the Normalization of biopolitics is inherently dehumanizing. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Arrigo 02 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Bruce, professor, “punishing the Mental Ill”, page 82, TS) </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 12pt;">According to Foucault… **<span class="underline0">method of</span> __domination__** </span>

**Dehumanization Creates Nuclear War and Genocide. When we view people as objects, anything is justified.**
**Berube ’97** (David, Ph.D. in Communications, “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side”, NanoTechnology Magazine, June/July 1997, p. 1-6, URL: [[http://www.cla.s%20nc.edu/ENGL/faculty/berube/prolong.htm|http://www.cla.s nc.edu/ENGL/faculty/berube/prolong.htm]]) 
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">This means-ends…__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> most powerful weapon.</span>__ </span>

<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Removing Tactical Nuclear Weapons from Turkey Reopens the Space of Disagreement against the Closed Logic of Preemption- Our Demand Interrupts the Consensus for Preemption Growing Around the New Mission of Tactical Nuclear Weapons </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 12pt;"><span style="color: black;">Goh. Visiting Fellow at Harvard, 2006 [Irving, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere,” Fast Capitalism 2.1, </span>[[http://ww.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapiatlism2_1/goh.html]]<span style="color: black;">] </span></span>
**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%; color: black;">For a critical</span>__****<span style="color: black;">…</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> possible to do." </span>

**<span style="color: black;">AND The Space of Interruption is not just an Abstract One – Removing Tactical Nuclear Weapons Allows for Turkey to replace the American Logic of Preemption with Diplomacy and Cooperation </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Lamond and Ingram</span>**<span style="color: black;">, British-American Security Information Council, **2009** [</span>CLAUDINE & PAUL, “POLITICS AROUND US TACTICAL NUCLEAR WEAPONS IN HOST STATES”, BASIC GETTING TO ZERO PAPERS, NO. 11, JANUARY 23, HTTP:WWW.BASICINT.ORG/GTZ/GTZ11.PDF, P. 4] 
**__There is a__****... __overwhelming public support.__**

**And, Challenging These Weapons Must Begin with Turkey – Otherwise, Turkey Will Simply become the Repository of ALL Tactical Nuclear Weapons**
**TOMASKOVIC-DEVEY**, M.A. IN PUBLIC POLICY AND ADMINISTRATION AT UMASS-AMHERST, **2010** [ANNA, “A STEP CLOSER TO A WORLD WITHO<span style="font-family: AppleGothic;">U</span>T N<span style="font-family: AppleGothic;">U</span>C<span style="font-family: AppleGothic;">L</span>EAR WEAPONS,” COSMOPOLITAN REVIEW 2.1, HTTP: COSMOPOLITANREVIEW.COM/ARTICLES/56-2010-SPRING-VOL-2-NO1/201-A-STEP-CLOSER-TO-A WORLDWITHOUT- NUCLEAR-WEAPONS] 
<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Although nuclear disarmament…</span> **__you wish__** **__for ...”__**

**<span style="color: black;">And, Challenging Tactical Nuclear Weapons Spills Over to Broader Action </span>**
**KELLEHER & WARREN**, **2009** , PROFESSOR OF PUBLIC POLICY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND & EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF GENERATION CITIZEN [BY CATHERINE M. KELLEHER AND SCOTT L. WARREN, “GETTING TO ZERO STARTS HERE: TACTICAL NUCLEAR WEAPONS,” OCTOBER, HTTP:WWW.ARMSCONTROL.ORG/ACT/2009_10/KELLEHER] 
**__A critical debate…<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> arms control debate.</span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only engaging the centers of power can solve </span>**
<span class="cite0">Grossberg<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">1992</span> Professor of Communication Studies and Cultural Studies, </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">[Lawrence, We gotta get out of this place, p. 390-391]</span>
<span class="underline0">But this would<span style="text-decoration: none;">…</span></span><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> <span class="underline0">to fight them.</span></span>

**Err on the side of systemic impacts – it’s the biggest consequence in the long term**
Tibor <span class="cite0">Machan</span>, prof. emeritus of philosophy at Auburn University, 20<span class="cite0">03</span> “Passion for Liberty” 
<span class="UnunderlinedTextChar">All in all… the leading jurisprudence </span>

**One shot magnitude is exaggerated through natural tendencies - systemic impacts come first.**
**Rescher****<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> Prof. of Philosophy, </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">83</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> Nicholas Rescher, University of Pittsburgh Professor of Philosophy, “Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management” 1983 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">But while there… **__to be underestimated. ~__** </span>

**Fixation on the one shot magnitude impact is the most damaging mode of thought; low probability impacts can be written off.**
**Rescher****__<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">,</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> Prof. of Philosophy, </span>**83** <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Nicholas Rescher, University of Pittsburgh Professor of Philosophy, “Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management” 1983 </span>
**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">A probability is</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">… situation of hazard. </span>__**

**Any action could potentially have devastating impacts, but we don’t evaluate them because of the low probability**
**Stern**<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">, Fellow at CFR, </span>**99** <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Jessica Stern, Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and former National Security Council Member “The Ultimate Terrorists” 1999 http://www.hup.harvard.edu/features/steult/excerpt.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">Poisons have always…**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> image of fear.</span>__** </span>

**Risk assessment irrationally exaggerates low probability impacts. Objective risk analysis is impossible because our decisions are always tainted by our background beliefs- vote affirmative in the face of the undeniable impacts of absolute war, genocide, and dehumanization**
**Teuber**<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">, Professor of Philosophy at Brandeis University</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">, 19</span>****90****<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Andreas Teuber"JUSTIFYING RISK," Daedalus, Volume 119 – Number 4, Fall, 1990 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://people.brandeis.edu/%7Eteuber/paperrisk.html|http://people.brandeis.edu/~teuber/paperrisk.html]] </span>
**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">Even if the</span>__****<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">… __irrational public policies.__</span>**

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Harvard</span>== 
**<span style="margin-right: -0.9pt;">Turkey currently hosts 90 U.S B-61 gravity bombs at the Incirlik Air Base – and they’re outdated </span>**
**Bell and Loehrke 09** <span style="color: black;">(Alexandra is a Truman National Security Fellow and Benjamin is a grad student at the U of Maryland, “The status of U.S. nuclear weapons in Turkey”, accessed at __http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey__ on 6/21/10dml) </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">For more than</span>****<span style="text-decoration: none;">...</span>** **value or purpose**</span>**__.__**

**<span style="margin-right: -0.9pt;">The United States TNWs deployed in TURKEY are a legacy of the Cold War in search of a new mission—and that new mission is preemption. Today, Iran is the new target of choice for nuclear war fighting. </span>**
**Greenpeace**: International, May **2006** [“Securing our safety, ensuring our survival why us nato nuclear weapons in Europe must go,” [[http://www.greenpeace.org/raw/contentinternational/press/resports/securing-our-safety.pdf%20p.14-18|http://www.greenpeace.org/raw/contentinternational/press/resports/securing-our-safety.pdf p.14-18]]] 
**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">NATO policy allows</span>__****… __patently absurd.__**

<span style="line-height: normal;">**AND Tactical Nuclear Weapons are retargeted against states like Iran, shifting nuclear policy from deterrence to war fighting and preemption—this makes offensive nuclear war inevitable.** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">**Chossudovsky** **06**, Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa, 2006 [Michael, “Is the Bush Administration Planning a Nuclear Holocaust? Will the US launch “mini-nukes” against Iran in retaliation for Tehran’s “Non-Compliance”?” Global Research, February 22, [[http://www.globablresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=2032|Http://www.globablresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=2032]]] </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%; color: black;">At no point</span>__****<span style="color: black;">…__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> to its development</span>.__ </span>**</span>

**<span style="color: black;">AND unless we break free from the current military system, this logic of Preemption will never stop—today’s global military violence is structured by a system of fear which must constantly identify and destroy new targets to keep us preemptively safe. </span>**
<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black;"> Massumi 07</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Proffesory at the European Graduate School2007 [Brian, “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Preemption,” Theory and Event 10:2 Project Muse] </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**__The War in__****…****__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%; color: black;"> be never-ending.</span>__** </span>

<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black;">AND the normalization of Preemption makes the biopolit</span>****<span style="color: black;">i</span>****<span style="color: black;">c</span>****<span style="color: black;">a</span>****<span style="color: black;">l</span>** **<span style="color: black;">c</span>****<span style="color: black;">o</span>****<span style="color: black;">n</span>****<span style="color: black;">t</span>****<span style="color: black;">r</span>****<span style="color: black;">o</span>****<span style="color: black;">l</span>** **<span style="color: black;">o</span>****<span style="color: black;">f</span>** **<span style="color: black;">l</span>****<span style="color: black;">i</span>****<span style="color: black;">f</span>****<span style="color: black;">e</span>** **<span style="color: black;">t</span>****<span style="color: black;">o</span>****<span style="color: black;">t</span>****<span style="color: black;">a</span>****<span style="color: black;">l</span>****<span style="color: black;">—</span>****<span style="color: black;">f</span>****<span style="color: black;">r</span>****<span style="color: black;">e</span>****<span style="color: black;">ed</span>****<span style="color: black;">om is violently eliminated in a state of absolute war. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Goh 06</span>**<span style="color: black;">. Visiting Fellow at Harvard, 2006 [Irving, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere,” Fast Capitalism 2.1, </span>[[http://ww.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapiatlism2_1/goh.html]]<span style="color: black;">] </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%; color: black;">At present, the</span>__****<span style="color: black;">…</span>**<span style="color: black;"> a terror suspect. </span></span>

**<span style="color: black;">A</span>****<span style="color: black;">nd</span>****<span style="color: black;">, </span>****this** **system** **of** **biopolitics** **is** **responsible** **for** **the** **worst** **atrocities** **in** **history** **– the classification of identity within the calculations of** **disciplinary** **control** **produces the population as an object of power to be controlled and managed. it is this status as subjects of power that makes warfare, genocide, and nuclear destruction both necessary and inevitable.**
**foucault, 1978** (michel, philosopher and former head chair @ <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coll%C3%A8ge_de_France|Collège de France]]</span>, the history of sexuality, pg. 136-7)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="Shrinker">Since the classical…</span> <span class="Underline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">phenomena of population.</span> </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black;">And the Normalization of biopolitics is inherently dehumanizing. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Arrigo 02 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Bruce, professor, “punishing the Mental Ill”, page 82, TS) </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 12pt;">According to Foucault… **<span class="underline0">method of</span> __domination__** </span>

**Dehumanization Creates Nuclear War and Genocide. When we view people as objects, anything is justified.**
**Berube ’97** (David, Ph.D. in Communications, “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side”, NanoTechnology Magazine, June/July 1997, p. 1-6, URL: [[http://www.cla.s%20nc.edu/ENGL/faculty/berube/prolong.htm|http://www.cla.s nc.edu/ENGL/faculty/berube/prolong.htm]]) 
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">This means-ends…__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> most powerful weapon.</span>__ </span>

<span style="line-height: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Removing Tactical Nuclear Weapons from Turkey Reopens the Space of Disagreement against the Closed Logic of Preemption- Our Demand Interrupts the Consensus for Preemption Growing Around the New Mission of Tactical Nuclear Weapons </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 12pt;"><span style="color: black;">Goh. Visiting Fellow at Harvard, 2006 [Irving, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere,” Fast Capitalism 2.1, </span>[[http://ww.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapiatlism2_1/goh.html]]<span style="color: black;">] </span></span>
**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%; color: black;">For a critical</span>__****<span style="color: black;">…</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> possible to do." </span>

**<span style="color: black;">AND The Space of Interruption is not just an Abstract One – Removing Tactical Nuclear Weapons Allows for Turkey to replace the American Logic of Preemption with Diplomacy and Cooperation </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Lamond and Ingram</span>**<span style="color: black;">, British-American Security Information Council, **2009** [</span>CLAUDINE & PAUL, “POLITICS AROUND US TACTICAL NUCLEAR WEAPONS IN HOST STATES”, BASIC GETTING TO ZERO PAPERS, NO. 11, JANUARY 23, HTTP:WWW.BASICINT.ORG/GTZ/GTZ11.PDF, P. 4] 
**__There is a__****... __overwhelming public support.__**

**And, Challenging These Weapons Must Begin with Turkey – Otherwise, Turkey Will Simply become the Repository of ALL Tactical Nuclear Weapons**
**TOMASKOVIC-DEVEY**, M.A. IN PUBLIC POLICY AND ADMINISTRATION AT UMASS-AMHERST, **2010** [ANNA, “A STEP CLOSER TO A WORLD WITHO<span style="font-family: AppleGothic;">U</span>T N<span style="font-family: AppleGothic;">U</span>C<span style="font-family: AppleGothic;">L</span>EAR WEAPONS,” COSMOPOLITAN REVIEW 2.1, HTTP: COSMOPOLITANREVIEW.COM/ARTICLES/56-2010-SPRING-VOL-2-NO1/201-A-STEP-CLOSER-TO-A WORLDWITHOUT- NUCLEAR-WEAPONS] 
<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Although nuclear disarmament…</span> **__you wish__** **__for ...”__**

**<span style="color: black;">And, Challenging Tactical Nuclear Weapons Spills Over to Broader Action </span>**
**KELLEHER & WARREN**, **2009** , PROFESSOR OF PUBLIC POLICY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND & EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF GENERATION CITIZEN [BY CATHERINE M. KELLEHER AND SCOTT L. WARREN, “GETTING TO ZERO STARTS HERE: TACTICAL NUCLEAR WEAPONS,” OCTOBER, HTTP:WWW.ARMSCONTROL.ORG/ACT/2009_10/KELLEHER] 
**__A critical debate…<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> arms control debate.</span>__**

**Public debate is key to challenging the planning of preemptive wars against Iran and others. Shifts the debate and exposes militarism to individual and collective change**
**Chossudovsky 06** <span style="line-height: normal;">Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa, 2006 [Michael, “Is the Bush Administration Planning a Nuclear Holocaust? Will the US launch “mini-nukes” against Iran in retaliation for Tehran’s “Non-Compliance”?” Global Research, February 22, </span>
**It is not Iran...**
**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">collectively against war.</span>__**

**One shot magnitude is exaggerated through natural tendencies - systemic impacts come first.**
**Rescher****<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> Prof. of Philosophy, </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">83</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> Nicholas Rescher, University of Pittsburgh Professor of Philosophy, “Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management” 1983 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">But while there… **__to be underestimated. ~__** </span>

**Fixation on the one shot magnitude impact is the most damaging mode of thought; low probability impacts can be written off.**
**Rescher****__<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">,</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> Prof. of Philosophy, </span>**83** <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Nicholas Rescher, University of Pittsburgh Professor of Philosophy, “Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management” 1983 </span>
**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">A probability is</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">… situation of hazard. </span>__**



=Negative= 
==Neg Stuff== 
===Orientalism K=== 
WE READ A SPECIFIC LINK TO THE AFF [We have links to everything...]

**AND - Orientalism necessitates war and genocide against the supposedly irrational Oriental other. Accepting this ideology sparks a new wave of crusades - the only way to deal with a completely excluded other is to seek its elimination. Once we have designated a group of people as inherently different, the road to their genocide is short indeed.**
Pinar **Batur 07** Vassar College (Handbook of the Sociology of Racial and Ethnic Relations, "Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War and Genocide")
Albert Memmi argued...genocide, in Darfur.

**AND - The construction of threat in the 1AC is made up of orientalist discourse and preemptive logic necessitating a violent power relationship that ensures unending war.**
**Jabri** Professor of Internationl Politics and the Director of the Centre for International Relations at the King's College London **06** (Vivienne, "War, security,and the liberal state" Security Dialogue http://sdi.sagepub.com/cgi/reprint/37/1/47)
The practices of...internal and external.

**AND - Worst case scenarios constructed out of fear create a self fulfilling prophecy of destruction**
Michael C. **Williams** Senior Lecturer in the Department of Intenational Politics at the University of Wales, Aberystwyth 20**05** (The Realist Tradition and the Limits of International Relations, ed. by Steve Smith (managing editor) et al., page 26)
From this perspective...
**__<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">each against all.</span>__**

**Our alternative is to rethink traditional practices of Eastern analysis and engage in a radical criticism of their epistemology**
**Biglin 05** (Assistant Prof of international Relations at Blikent University, "Regional security in the Middle East a critical perspective")
<!--[if gte mso 10]> 
<span class="Underline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Emphasising the mutually... </span></span>
subject of research

**The alternative is critical to problematizing Orientalist discourse; it explicitly engages the political**
**Biglin 05** (Assistant Prof of international Relations at Blikent University, "Regional security in the Middle East a critical perspective")
From a critical perspective...theory and practice





[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]