[[toc]]
=Contact= 
Email Mia for cites at [[mailto:timedieswithoutyou@gmail.com|timedieswithoutyou@gmail.com]]
=Aff= 
==1AC== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The advantage is security:**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Current Korean policy discussions are dominated by security discourse and logic – these discussions rely on characterizing North Korea as the “bad” Koreans**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hazel</span> **Smith 2000** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Bad, mad, sad or rational actor? Why the ‘securitization’ paradigm makes for poor policy analysis of north Korea” International Affairs, vol 76, 593-594</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> There are different strands to … of north Korea as ‘<span style="background-color: yellow;">mad’</span>.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Despite the fact that North Korea is no longer a threat, policy makers continue to describe and construct it as one to justify America’s troop presence and policing of the world.**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Pena 2002**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –“Axis of Evil: Threat or Chimera?”, Charles Charles Peña is senior defense policy analyst at the Cato Institute pp (Mediterranean Quarterly, Volume 13, Number 3, Summer 2002, 40-57)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span style="background-color: yellow;">North Korea is considered a threat … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” of engagement with North Korea.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Specifically, the language of “rogue states” creates a dichotomy between the moral actions of the US and evil behavior of North Korea. This results in the materialization of North Korea’s “dangerous” behavior while legitimizing America’s continued military presence**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Tan See Seng**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Prof of … it is of the Other.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **This dichotomy further manifests itself in discussion of proliferation, obscuring that western security logic is what spurs proliferation in the first place**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Gusterson, 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> associate professor of Anthropology, (Hugh Gusterson, Associate Professor of Anthropology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Nuclear Weapons and the Other in Western Imagination, CULTURAL ANTHROPOLOGY, February 1999, JSTOR)</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the following pages I examine … </span><span style="background-color: yellow;">First World institutions and states</span>.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **And, the dichotomy of between “good” Koreans and “bad” Koreans necessitates the violent elimination of the “bad” Korea**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Wilson, 91.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Rob (Professor of English at the University of Hawaii) Theory's Imaginal Other: American Encounters with South Korea and Japan in boundary 2, Vol. 18, No. 3, Japan in the World (Autumn, 1991), pp. 220-241</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> The larger question of textual … known as "Korea" at all.)</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **This flawed security logic attributes responsibility for danger and instability only to North Korea. This results in American policies like military posture in the ROK that reify this image – es calating the conflict**</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Bleiker, 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Roland, Professor of International Relations, pHD from the Australian National University, “Divided Korea: Toward A Culture of Reconciliation,” p. 36-38, TH)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I will pay particular attention … </span>**force its opponent into submission**.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **But, American policymakers intentionally construct crises in order to gain concessions in so-called negotiations**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Bleiker 2003**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“A rogue is a rogue is a rogue: US foreign policy and the Korean nuclear crisis” International Affairs 79, 4 p.719-737)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ‘Hawk engagement’ has emerged … </span><span style="background-color: yellow;">weapons programme</span>, fictive or not.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Status quo rhetoric surrounding North Korea will justify US interventionist war that will result in global conflict**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span class="cite0"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cumings 5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> – Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p ()(</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite0"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> Bruce-, . 487-88) ncp</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10.5pt;">The point is not that … **a**</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> regional if not a <span style="background-color: yellow;">global holocaust</span></span>**</span>**.**</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **The end result is total war –securitization justifies genocidal violence**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in; padding: 0px;">Karsten **<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Friis,</span>** UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, **<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2k</span>** [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]</span>]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The process of security leads to unending violence and wars against populations of created threats**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Duschinski 2009** – Assistant Prof of Sociology and Anthropology, Ohio University (Haley, “Destiny Effects: Militarization, State Power, and Punitive Containment in Kashmir Valley.” Anthropological Quarterly, Volume 82, Number 3, Summer 2009, Project MUSE) CMR</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Patterns of war emerging in … </span><span style="background-color: yellow;">human</span> respect and dignity<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **<span style="color: #222222;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce United States Forces Korea.</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **North Korea is the key starting point for overhauling existing IR theory – aff produces a new way of approaching policy decisions.**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span class="cite0"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kang 03</span> </span><span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David C., Sept. 03, Associate professor … Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 3, Date accessed: 5/18, JH)</span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This is just the latest … South was the rising defender.’’</span>

**Evaluate the debate through the lens of what is historically or culturally contingent – western policymakers claim to objectively describe the North Korean threat, while employing the myth of “the unknown” to dismiss differing opinions. This makes the state the only arbiter of “reality” Policies become unquestionable – only the aff opens up space for criticism.**

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cite">Bleiker, 2005</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Roland, Professor of International Relations, pHD from the Australian National University, “Divided Korea: Toward A Culture of Reconciliation,” p. xxxv-xxxvii, TH)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Journalists, academics, and </span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: yellow;">policy makers</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: yellow;">“have become what they are.” </span></span></span>

**Realists misunderstand power politics in North Korea-- they should employ a comprehensive historical view of the world to figure out why the misconstruction came about.**
**Kang, 3.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">David (</span><span style="color: #2b2b2b; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of International Relations and Business, Director of Korean Studies Institute</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">), Getting Asia Wrong: The Need for New Analytical Frameworks International Security, Volume 27, Number 4, Spring 2003, pp. 65 MUSE </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">More than a dozen ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> explanation in the following section. </span></span>

**Appeals to “empirical facts” are overly simple and mere constructs used to support political goals – the aff functions as a “critical history” that opens the space for competing historical narratives**
**Bleiker, 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Roland, Professor of International Relations, pHD from the Australian National University, “Divided Korea: Toward A Culture of Reconciliation,” p. 103-4, TH)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> To move from trauma ... taint the pure minds of youth.”25 </span>

**Claims that “we are on the brink” of a conflict in North Korea are just rhetorical strategies that are attempting to preserve failing security logic in the status quo –a critical examination now is key**

**Kang, 3.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> David (Professor of International Relations and Business, Director of Korean Studies Institute), Getting Asia Wrong: The Need for New Analytical Frameworks International Security, Volume 27, Number 4, Spring 2003, pp. 57-85 MUSE</span>


Following the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> end of the ...</span> designed to avoid troubling evidence<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


**And, reject “expert” predictions – so-called experts have no accountability or better techniques to predict the future than any informed person.**

<span class="il">**Menand**</span> **<span style="color: #222222;">5,</span>** <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">(12/5/5, Louis Menand, staffwriter for the New Yorker, <span class="MsoHyperlink"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005/12/05/051205crbo_books1?currentPage=all]]</span></span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It is the somewhat gratifying ... </span>were seduced by the detail<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>

**Our arg is not that representations shape reality, but that representations ARE reality. Any discussion that ignores the role of representation is vapid.**

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">Neta </span><span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Crawford</span></span> <span style="color: black;">,PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. Argument and Change in World Politics, 200</span><span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2</span></span><span style="color: black;"> p. 19-21 </span></span>

<span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Coherent arguments</span></span> <span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">are unlikely ...</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;"> framing is a meta-argument.</span>

**Language matters – every act of concrete violence is linked to some discursive construction – their violent discourse has real world consequences**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John </span>**Collins**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ass. Prof. of Global Studies at St. Lawrence, </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ross </span>**Glover**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Visiting Professor of Sociology at St. Lawrence University, 20</span>**02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Collateral Language, p. 6-7</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Real Effects of Language</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> As any university student ...</span> physical effects of violence.


**Evaluate the debate through the lens of human cooperation –**

**The neg reifies the perceived inevitability of realism – people can and do work together**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark </span>**Busser**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Masters Candidate at the Dept of Political Science at York University. Aug 200</span>**6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (“The Evolution of Security: Revisiting the Human Nature Debate in International Relations ”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP40-Busser.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Clark describes the African ... reconciling, or ranking differences. </span>


**Realism fails in the case of North Korea –at best it only explains war scenarios – but cannot explain tensions that do not escalate**

<span class="cite0"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kang 03</span> </span><span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David C., Sept. 03, Associate professor of government and adjunct associate professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college, “International Relations Theory and the Second Korean War”, International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 3, Date accessed: 5/18, JH)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Additionally, the </span>Korean ... either of these strategies

**Plan solves realism inevitable – Realism only survives at a policymaker lever because of irrational fear mongering – the plan breaks down the propaganda of fear and allows pockets of resistance to state control to win the propaganda war.**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan </span>**Catalan**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 8/31/</span>**10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, writer for Mises Daily, EconomicThought.net and Market Oracle (UK), “A Culture of Fear Basis for American Foreign and Domestic Policy,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article22324.html]]</span> </span>
**The government thrives ...**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> availability of other options. </span>

<span class="MsoHyperlink">**Psychology proves – evidence is on our side** </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey D. </span>**Berejikian, Assistant Professor of International Affairs**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at the University of Georgia. Dec 200</span>**2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (International Society of Political Psychology. “Model Building With Prospect Theory: A Cognitive Approach to International Relations ”. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3792366?origin=JSTOR-pdf]]</span>) </span>

<span class="MsoHyperlink">For more than two decades, ... have recently taken it up. </span>

**Thayer lied and oversimplified – treat their card as an analytic**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark </span>**Busser**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Masters Candidate at the Dept of Political Science at York University. Aug 200</span>**6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (“The Evolution of Security: Revisiting the Human Nature Debate in International Relations ”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP40-Busser.pdf]]</span>) </span>

According to Thayer, ... <span style="font-size: 11px;">arguable sociobiological evidence.</span>

**Genetics don't impact human nature enough and Thayer has no scientific support**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark </span>**Busser**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Masters Candidate at the Dept of Political Science at York University. Aug 200</span>**6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (“The Evolution of Security: Revisiting the Human Nature Debate in International Relations ”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP40-Busser.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Because of these ...</span>sustained interdisciplinary exploration.

**Analysis of US security logic and threat construction is a precondition for understanding and resolving the North Korean “crisis”**
**Bleiker 2003**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“A rogue is a rogue is a rogue: US foreign policy and the Korean nuclear crisis” International Affairs 79, 4 p.719-737)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The purpose of this article ...</span>the crisis solely to North Korea’s actions.

<span style="margin: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">This realism takes away original identity and assumes a Western security mindset and denies cultural motives for violence. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hansen, 6.</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Lene (Associate Professor, Director of the Ph.d. Program, Department of Political Science, University of Copenhagenjh) Security as Practice: Discourse Analysis and the Bosnian War, 174.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal; text-align: left;">To construct the Bosnian ... create true national homelands” (Kaufmann 1996: 137).</span>

**And, security logic is not useful or inevitable in the case of North Korea – aff is key to creating a paradigm shift.**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hazel</span> **Smith 2000** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Bad, mad, sad or rational actor? Why the ‘securitization’ paradigm makes for poor policy analysis of north Korea” International Affairs, vol 76, 593-594</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Given the Kuhnian framework, ...t</span>he available alternatives<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Security discourse is not neutral or rational –but works to justify US military actions and obscure contradictory evidence**

**Bleiker 2003**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“A rogue is a rogue is a rogue: US foreign policy and the Korean nuclear crisis” International Affairs 79, 4 p.719-737)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> If one steps back ...</span> real and politically legitimate.

=Neg= 
==Security== 
===1NC=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Claims of war and conflict are not objective – they are produced by the specific history of the observer and fed upon by the state in a blind striving for security**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> David **Grondin**, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 200**4**, (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">conditions of existence are generated18.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Securitization is a precondition to genocide- their advantage descriptions will be used to justify massive violence </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Karsten **Friis**, UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, **2k** [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> **Alt Text: Reject the affirmative’s security discourse and threat construction.** </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**The role of the ballot should be to assume the position of a critical intellectual**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Richard Wyn **Jones**, Professor International Politics @ Aberystwyth University, ‘**99** (Security, Strategy, and Critical Theory, p. 155-163)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The central political task of … a challenge to critical security studies. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Framework: Representations must precede policy discussion and shape reality </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Neta **Crawford** ,PhD MA MIT, … and Change in World Politics, 200**2** p. 19-21</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Coherent arguments are unlikely to … .” Hence framing is a meta-argument.</span>

===Afghanistan Link=== 


<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">**Minor shifts in military policy misses the boat – maintaining friend-enemy distinctions makes Afghani violence inevitable**</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"> **Crowe 2007 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">York University (L.A., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security -Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’.” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf]]</span>) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"> The first element is that...economics enables globalized militarization.</span>

===<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">Democracy Link</span>=== 

**Constructing non-democracies as threats legitimizes intervention against those threats**

**Burger and Villumsen 07** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christian and Trine, Journal of International Relations and Development, “Beyond the gap: relevance, fields of practice and the securitizing consequences of (democratic peace) research” pg. 24, https</span>secure.palgrave-journals.com/jird/journal/v10/n4/full/1800136a.html)

To give empirical flesh to...a dilemma of vast proportions.

===Disease Link=== 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our conceptions of health are historically and culturally contingent – they force elimination of a “diseased” Other to protect the state </span></span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Campbell 98 --</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> professor of international politics at the university of Newcastle (David, “Writing Security:</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">United States Foreign Policy and the Politics of Identity</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">.” University of Minnesota Press, pg. 86-88) </span></span>

What has been and remains...is a foreigner, a stranger.

===Environment Link=== 

**The 1ACs engagement in green rhetoric throws the left a bone while legitimizing the state as a means to protect against threats**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jon Barnett</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Fellow in the School of Social and Environmental Enquiry at University of Melbourne, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2001</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__The Meaning of Environmental Security: Ecological Politics and Policy in the New Security Era__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, pg. 87 p1 – pg. 88 p3) </span>

The NSS, DOD and State Department interpret environmental...in their environmental security pronouncements.

===I-Law Link=== 

**Action under the guise of international law justifies violence against rogue states who stand against civilization**
=====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.033em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative--Kritiks-Security K-International Law Link]]</span>===== 

<span class="MsoCommentReference">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[#_msocom_1|[CR1]]]</span>**</span>**008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- Associate Professor of Human Rights and the Coordinator of the Human Rights Program at Carleton University (Margaret, “The Human Rights of Others: Sovereignty, Legitimacy, and "Just Causes" for the "War on Terror".” Hypatia: Volume 23, Number 2, Spring 2008. Project MUSE) CMR</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Developments in public international...humanity was the perfect alibi.</span>
----

===Japan Alliance Link=== 

**Bolstering the Japan alliance is a cover for US ambitions to “secure” Asia as it projects spokes of influence throughout the region**[[#_msocom_1]]

**Cha 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- D.S. Song Professor of Government and Asian Studies at Georgetown University and Senior Adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Victor, “Powerplay Origins of the U.S. Alliance System in Asia.” International Security Volume 34, Number 3, Winter 2009/10, Project Muse) CMR </span>

Why did the United States pursue...limiting the potential for renewed aggression.

===Korea Link=== 

**The aff dichotomy of North/South Korea relies on a flawed purpose of differentiating “good” korea from “bad” korea – this necessitates elimination of the “bad” Korea**


**Wilson, 91.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Rob (Professor of English at the University of Hawaii) Theory's Imaginal Other: American Encounters with South Korea and Japan in boundary 2, Vol. 18, No. 3, Japan in the World (Autumn, 1991), pp. 220-241 </span>

The larger question of textual...North Korea to be known as "Korea" at all.)

===Prolif Link=== 

**The West creates a hypocritical global proliferation model that privileges western policy and constructs other nation’s proliferation efforts in Orientalist terms that create the problems they seek to prevent**
**Behnke, 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Lecturer of IR at the University of Reading (January, Andreas, “Inscriptions of Imperial Order: NATO's Mediterranean Initiative”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.gmu.edu/programs/icar/ijps/vol5_1/behnke.htm]]</span>) BBL </span>

David Mutimer (1997) has argued that the use of...information with proper conceptual tools.

===Russia Link=== 

**The affirmatives construction of Russia as a threat turns the world into an item that must be defended – in the global drive to eliminate danger we otherize Russia and turn everyone into a soldier in the war against the Russian enemy**
**__Jæger__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Norwegian Institute of International Affairs and the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute </span>**__2k__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Øyvind “Securitizing Russia: Discurisve Practices of the Baltic States” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf]]</span>) </span>

The constitutional ban in all...of the prime external enemy.

===Terror Link=== 

**Claiming to “solve” terrorism through shifts in military action misses the point – postulating that they are intrinsically evil means we should annihilate them forces wars of intervention – only reevaluating terror solves**

**Noorani 2005 --** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assistant Professor in Near Eastern Studies at the University of Arizona (Yaseen, “The Rhetoric of Security.” The New Centennial Review 5.1 (2005) 13-41, Project MUSE) CMR</span>

The Bush administration perpetually...for the foreseeable future.

==Hillman== 
===1NC=== 
**<span style="color: black;">War is an inevitable part of the human psychology – trying to prevent war only creates a class of individuals who conduct violence illicitly – we are forced to eliminate these individuals in wars for the sake of peace </span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Hillman 04</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Psychologist, scholar, international lecturer, originator of post-Jungian archetypal psychology, professor at Yale and the University of Chicago, "The Terrible Love of War", Penguin Press, pg. 201-205, JB)</span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">There remains the wish at the end of every war...</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black;"> the hypocrisy of noble proclamations . </span>__



**The impact is omnicide and war on the psyche**

**Davis ‘1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Walter A, Professor of English at Ohio State University, Deracination: Historicity, Hiroshima, and the Tragic Imperative. State Univesrity of New York Press, p. 95-96 AM)</span>

__It is never enough__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> however. ...</span>__Kant’s struggle with the sublime.__





**<span style="color: black;">Alt text: Reject the affirmative in order to embrace and understand war. </span>**

**<span style="color: black;">We must embrace war to end </span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Hillman 04</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Psychologist, scholar, international lecturer, originator of post-Jungian archetypal psychology, professor at Yale and the University of Chicago, "The Terrible Love of War", Penguin Press, pg. 125-126, JB)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">There must be a myth at work....</span>__<span style="color: black;">within my reach the ghosts can't get me.</span>__







**Next, our framework—the psyche exists and comes first – it shapes our understanding of the world – everything depends on it**

**Jung 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Carl G., renowned scholar of psychoanalysis and founder of the Jung Institute, The Undiscovered Self, New American Library, New York, 81-85, AM)</span>

__Separation from his instinctual nature ...____observed every day and can happen to everyone.__



==SKFTA Politics== 
===1NC=== 

**South Korea Free trade agreement will pass but political capital is key to smooth out disagreements over autos and beef**
**Nasdaq 11/3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Barkley of Dow Jones News, “Obama Could Set Political Tone At Home With South Korean Trade Deal.” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nasdaq.com/aspx/stock-market-news-story.aspx?storyid=201011031138dowjonesdjonline000533&title=obama-could-set-political-tone-at-home-with-south-korean-trade-deal]]</span></span>**)** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">CMR</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> WASHINGTON -(Dow Jones)- When President Barack </span>**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">Obama</span>** returns...<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;"> room for negotiations</span> on taxes and trade<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**[LINK]**

**KORUS solves warming**
**Kim 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – policy analyst, heritage foundation (Anthony, “Time to Build a Clean Energy Future through the KORUS FTA.”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/06/Time-to-Build-a-Clean-Energy-Future-through-the-KORUS-FTA]]</span>) CMR</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The pending Korea–U.S. Free Trade Agreement, ... Business and workers in both countries would benefit. </span>

**Extinction**
**Cummins and Allen ‘10** (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6]]</span>)
The hour is late. Leading climate <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">scientists</span> ... determined to maintain "business as usual."

===Alliance I/L=== 
**KORUS solves ROK-US relations**

**Klinger and Markheim 2009** - *<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; padding: 0in;"> Senior Research Fellow, Northeast Asia, Heritage AND  **Jay Van Andel Senior Analyst in Trade Policy, Heritage. (Bruce and Daniella, “**</span>**KORUS FTA Strengthens the U.S. Economy and Alliance with Korea.” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2009/06/KORUS-FTA-Strengthens-the-US-Economy-and-Alliance-with-Korea) CMR**

**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Continuing to ignore the</span> KORUS...____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">concerns can be addressed</span>.</span>__**


===**Impacts**=== 
**Solves the economy**



**Bandow 10/20 –** senior fellow at cato (Doug, “//A Free Trade Agreement with// South Korea Would Promote Both Prosperity and Security.” [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/tbp/tbp-031.pdf]]) CMR 



__Both countries would benefit economically ...__ __market for U.S. producers and consumers.__ 




**Global nuclear war**

**Mead 09** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, New Republic, February 4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]</span>



<span style="font-size: 6pt;">So far, such half-hearted experiments ...</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">we may still have to fight</span>.__




**Relations solve global terror – signal for international cooperation** 



**Campbell et al, 09 --** Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs (Kurt M., Center for a New American Security, “Going global: the future of the U.S.-South Korea alliance.” Ed. by Campbell et al, “Going global: the future of the U.S.-South Korea alliance.” P. 72-73 http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CampbellPatel_Going%20Global_February09_0.pdf) 



__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">America will not be able to neutralize...</span>__ __and civil society partnerships.__




**Terrorism leads to extinction**

**Sid-Ahmed, 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, “Extinction!” August 26-September 1, Issue no. 705, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm)</span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">A nuclear attack by terrorists</span>__ __...____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">whole planet, we will all be losers</span>.__




**Relations spill over globally – key to US global influence** 

**Campbell et al, 09** -- Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs (Kurt M., Center for a New American Security, “Going global: the future of the U.S.-South Korea alliance.” Ed. by Campbell et al, “Going global: the future of the U.S.-South Korea alliance.” P. 60 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CampbellPatel_Going%20Global_February09_0.pdf]]</span>) 



__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">America’s ability to </span>maintain stability and__ __...__  __into a world leader on climate change.__ 2




**Nuclear war** 

**Gray, 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” http://www.carlisle.army. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">6. Interstate War, Down but Far from Out ... for war: “fear, honor, and interest.”23</span>




**Alliance solves warming – South Korea is a model for clean energy development** 

**Snyder, 09** – director of the Center for U.S.-Korea Policy and senior associate of Washington programs in the International Relations Program of the Asia Foundation (Scott, CSIS, April, “Pursuing a Comprehensive Vision for the U.S.–South Korea Alliance.” Google Scholar)

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">An </span>emerging <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">area of cooperation</span> in the...__<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">it in Copenhagen in December 2009.</span>




**Extinction**

**Tickell, 08** [Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Guardian, 8-11, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We need to get prepared for four degrees... </span>__a__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> similar </span>__hothouse Earth__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>




==**South Korea Deterrence**== 

===**1NC**=== 


The US is deterring adversaries in East Asia now – military excercises
AFP 8/19 **(“<span style="color: black;">US steps up pressure on NKorea with anti-submarine drill.”</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5gpnhizv9ZJ8-5-lY94QbeP0zjk8w]]</span>) CMR
**WASHINGTON — <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">The U</span>nited <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">S</span>tates <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">and … </span>and begin early next month."**
**The allies in July moved their first joint exercise after the sinking of the Cheonan from the Yellow Sea to the eastern side of the Korean peninsula after Beijing raised concerns about "regional tensions."**
**Whitman said the anti-submarine … that which occurred with Cheonan."**

Withdrawal causes Japan to nuclearize, turns China Conflict, and turns Korean conflict
Dao, 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (1/5/03, James, NY Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html]]</span>, JMP)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Deciding if now is the … </span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">they see</span> in the region."**


Japan prolif causes a chain reaction in Asia and collapses the NPT.
Halloran, 2009 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html]]</span>]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> That </span>anxiety has reinvigorated a debate … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">under the US nuclear umbrella. </span>**

Nuclear war
Cimbala, 2008
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> If the possibility existed of a … </span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">marginalization</span><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;"> <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">of</span> major interstate <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">warfare</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**

Withdrawal will wreck U.S. influence.
Kang & Cha, 03<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">*associate professor of Business at Dartmouth, AND </span>associate professor of government Georgetown’s school of Foreign Service (May/June 2003, David C. Kang, Victor D. Cha, Foreign Policy, “Think Again: The Korea Crisis,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ituassu.com.br/asia_fp1.pdf]]</span>, JMP)**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“The United States Should … of its alliance are not. </span></span>**

Regional states’ confidence in the U.S. … is key to U.S. global leadership
Goh, 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database, JMP) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The centrality of these mutual … appear to be much worse. </span>**

Heg collapse causes great power nuclear conflict.
Gray, 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.carlisle.army/|http://www.carlisle.army]]</span>. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 6. Interstate War, Down but … war: “fear, honor, and interest.”23 </span>**


==**Japan Deterrence**== 

===**1NC**=== 


Military presence vital to East Asian stability – withdrawal causes escalating wars and Japanese prolif.
Wortzel 2k - **Director of the Asian Studies Center at the Heritage Foundation**
**<span class="Underline">(8/10/00, “US forces remain critical to Northeast Asian security” pg online @ lexisnexis</span>au)**
**<span class="Underline">WASHINGTON - There has been a sea ... security disappear as well. </span>**

Causes nuclear World War 3.
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Knight Ridder 2k</span>**
[Jonathon S. Landay, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts”, 3-11, L/N]
Few if any experts think … <span class="UnderlineChar">are elements for potential disaster." </span>