=Affirmative - as of Grady= 
[[toc]]
Text: The United States federal government should remove its military presence in South Korea.

==Adv 1 KWar== 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The cold war days are over – the US is overstretched and only makes South Korea likely to proliferate, plan is crucial to put pressure to denuclearize the peninsula</span>**</span>
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Erickson 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Executive Director of CenterMovement.org (5/6/10, Stephen, “End the Cold War in Korea: Bring American Troops Home Before it’s Too Late,” [[http://www.centermovement.org/topics-issues/end-the-cold-war-in-korea-bring-american-troops-home-before-its-too-late/]], JMP)</span>
"On the night of March 26... home before it’s too late."


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tensions are peaking – both Koreas are warlike and unyielding – plan ensures peace and denuclearization that prevents great power war</span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Bandow 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/3/10, Doug, “Taming Pyongyang,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Suspicions continue to mount that … doing so in 2010 is bizarre.</span>

Joint exercises exacerbate tensions and ensure nuclear retaliation – withdrawal is vital
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">CNN 7 – 24</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">- North Korea ramps up threats against military exercises By the CNN Wire Staff July 24, 2010 -- Updated 0821 GMT (1621 HKT) http://edition.cnn.com/2010/WORLD/asiapcf/07/23/north.korea.threat/index.html?hpt=T2#fbid=ipevyiX6iJa</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hanoi, Vietnam (CNN) -- </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">North Korea</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__the west coast__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," he said. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if war isn’t intentional, current tensions can precipitate into accidents and miscalculation </span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Stratfor 10</span> -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” [[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Managing Escalation: But </span>__no one, …__ __the situation escalates much further.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Don’t be fooled – studies prove North Korea restarted its nuke program, risk for war is high</span>**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">WP 10 – 8</span>** **<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/10/07/AR2010100706527.html]] </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">N. Korea pressing forward on nuclear program, report says Washington Post Staff Writer Friday, October 8, 2010</span></span>

__[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/world/countries/korea.html?nav=el|__North Korea__]] appears to be moving forward with__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">could have been any of them.' '' </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The status quo is different - North Korea is desperate and used military action, Korean war is the only extinction scenario</span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Chung 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Visiting Professor at the School of International Relations, Nanyang Technological University and former Professor of international relations at Seoul National University (6/1/10, Chung Chong Wook, “The Korean Crisis: Going Beyond the Cheonan Incident,” http://www.rsis.edu.sg/publications/Perspective/RSIS0352010.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The sinking of the Cheonan</span> __…__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">, premature pessimism is not advisable.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan opens opportunities to defuse North Korea - other attempts fail, troops only make miscalculation ikely</span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Armstrong 10</span> –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of history and director of the Center for Korean Research at Columbia University (Charles, 5/26/10, CNN, “The Korean War never ended” [[http://www.cnn.com/2010/OPINION/05/24/armstrong.north.korea/index.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">New York (CNN) -- </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">War, not start it anew.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">North Korea has nothing to lose – miscalculations are inevitable in the status quo</span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Righter 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Worked for the Far Eastern Economic Review and Newsweek in Asia, as development and diplomatic correspondent of The Sunday Times. (Rosemary, 5/25/10, Times Online, “It’s risky, but this time North Korea must pay” [[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/rosemary_righter/article7136464.ece]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is </span>__the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">lack of … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">quite reached this danger point.</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">South Korean retaliation is more likely with US presence – greenlights a belligerent and confident response</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> <span class="tagChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Bandow 8</span></span></span>** – Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and former special assistant to Reagan (6/9/2008, Doug, “Ending the U.S.-Korea Alliance,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=17812]])</span>
Still, __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">does an American presence … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">today’s outmoded twentieth-century alliance.</span>
Instability is uniquely possible now – five reasons
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Feulner 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“February 4, Edwin is the President of the heritage foundation and has a PHD” </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Status of the U.S.-Korea Relationship in 2010 </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.heritage.org/Research/Lecture/The-Status-of-the-US-Korea-Relationship-in-2010</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, during this New … </span>the Year of the Tiger. </span>

Keeping the US tripwire guarantees involvement and miscalculation - withdrawal deters conflict
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Hornberger 9</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jacob, founder of the Future for Freedom Foundation and former publisher for //The Freeman//, “Pull Out of Korea (and Everywhere Else),” Future of Freedom Foundation, 6/16, http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-06-16.asp)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The real issue is: Why does … </span>messes than it already has.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Korean war will cause nuclear conflict – any shoot out leads to famine, ozone disruption, and collapses the economy</span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Hamel - Green 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” [[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]])**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The international community is increasingly … consideration from the international community. </span>**

Draws in Russia and China - escalates to superpower war
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Stares 9</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Sr. Fellow for Conflict Prevention at the C.F.R. & Adjunct Sr. Research Fellow @ Weatherhead East Asia Institute, Columbia University, 2009 (Paul and Joel, “Preparing for Sudden Change in North Korea,” January, available for download athttp://[[@http://www.cfr.org/|www.cfr.org/]]// </span>**
**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These various scenarios would present … American intervention in the North.</span>//**

==**Adv 2 Reglism**== 

**//East Asian regionalism is failing because of U.S. military over-reliance in the region - undermines cooperation on a list of issues//**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">//Snyder 9//</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> - </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. Domestic Politics and Multilateral Security Cooperation in Northeast Asia Scott Snyder, Asia Foundation December 2009 International Institutions and Global Governance Program Japan Studies Program</span>**//
//**__<span style="color: black;">The</span>__<span style="color: black;"> Center for Strategic and … </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">is the potentially dominant actor.</span>**//

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dependence on U.S. troops makes South Korean leadership for Asian regionalism impossible---withdrawal solves and promotes action</span>//
//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Young 8</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- AsiaViews, Edition: 43/V/Nov/2008 South Korea’s Middle Power: Diplomacy and Regional Security Cooperation . Dr. Young Jong Choi, a professor International Relations at the Catholic University of Korea, was the keynote speaker at the </span>**//**Asian Voices //series on October 2, hosted by the Sasakawa Peace Foundation USA in Washington, DC. http://new.asiaviews.org/?content=ger53rger567664&voices=20081120141855//**

**//__As a ‘middle power, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">South Korea</span>,__ __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">… </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Korea, and insufficient domestic support.</span>//**
**//Withdrawal stops South Korean dependence and pushes them to lead in regional issues//**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">//Bandow 7//</span> //**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan, 2007. (Doug, [[http://original.antiwar.com/doug-bandow/2007/08/10/korean-whining-the-price-of-dependence-on-america/]], Anti-War, August 11, 2007, mjb)</span>**//
//**<span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">It’s time for Washington to … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">time South Korea acted accordingly</span>.**//

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US can’t commit - withdrawal catalyzes a multipolar balance of power in East Asia and solves comparatively better than relations and heg </span>//
//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Espiritu 6</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], JMP)</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Can the U.S. live with the … the Eagle to head home. </span>**//

//**Withdrawal enables South Korea to lead on regionalism and can deter North Korea by itself - U.S. troops aren’t key to any security function**//
//**<span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Bandow 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Why Are "We" Defending South Korea? By Doug Bandow Published 09/08/09 2009 Doug Bandow is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author of </span>**//**Foreign Follies: America’s New Global Empire //(Xulon Press). http://www.campaignforliberty.com/article.php?view=201//**
//**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">Adm. Timothy Keating, the U.S. commander … their friends across the Pacific.</span>**//

//**<span class="Underline">Regional security architecture prevents military conflict throughout Asia with great powers and causes successful environmental cooperation </span>**//
//**<span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Vogel 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “</span>[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/03/30/regionalism-in-asia-why-we-should-stick-with-existing-structures/|Regionalism in Asia: Why we should stick with existing structures]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. March 30th, 2010” Ezra Vogel is Henry Ford II Emeritus Professor of Social Sciences at Harvard University. http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/03/30/regionalism-in-asia-why-we-should-stick-with-existing-structures/</span>**//
//**__An important key to successful <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">… </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">cooperate using the existing organisations.</span>**//

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Troops in Japan irrelevant – nuclear rearm would not occur, the US would cooperate and stabilize the region </span>//
//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Espiritu 6</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], JMP)</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is no doubt that </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">not be favorable to the </span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Japanese, a U.S. troop withdrawal from South Korea could be used as leverage to allow more troops to be based and or repositioned in Japan. </span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">South Korean regional activism would … </span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">or Japan’s may from neighbors.</span>__**//

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Asian conflict is the most likely scenario for extinction </span>//
//**<span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Sheridan 9</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Greg Sheridan, Foreign editor – The Australian, Hatoyama poised for global struggle, The Australian, 9-5-09, http://www.theaustralian.news.com.au/story/0,25197,26027029-7583,00.html</span>**//
//**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">Kurt <span class="UnderlineChar">Campbell</span>, now the US … <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ally anywhere on the globe.</span></span></span>**//

//<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Environmental protection’s key to avoid extinction </span>//
//**<span class="tagChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Powell 2K</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> -</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Corey S. Powell, Adjunct professor of Science Journalism at NYU's Science and Environmental Reporting Program; spent eight years on the Board of Editors at Scientific American; worked at Physics Today and at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center where he assisted in the testing of gamma-ray telescopes, October 2000, Discover, Vol. 21, No. 10, 20 Ways the World Could End Swept away)</span>**//
//**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">The Earth is getting warmer, … exactly the tipping point lies.</span>**//


=//**Affirmative - Add Ons**//= 

==//CBW Add On//== 

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a. North Korea will use CBWs – intentional or miscalculated attack cannot be prevented</span>//
//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">ICG 9</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> -</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” [[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx]], JMP)</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This report examines North Korea’s chemical and biological </span>**//
//__AND__// 
//__, accidental or unauthorised WMD attacks or incidents.__//

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">b. North Korean secret bioweapon use would spread globally within six weeks – greater than nuclear war[[#LastEdit]]</span>//
//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Levy 7</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> -</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” [[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]], JMP)</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax </span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and large quantities can be developed within days. </span>**//


==**SK SOPO Add On**== 
//a. US withdrawal of troops can demonstrate South Korea’s diplomatic independence and solve terror, crime, human rights and wars//
//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Young 8</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- AsiaViews, Edition: 43/V/Nov/2008 South Korea’s Middle Power: Diplomacy and Regional Security Cooperation . Dr. Young Jong Choi, a professor International Relations at the Catholic University of Korea, was the keynote speaker at the </span>**//**Asian Voices// series on October 2, hosted by the Sasakawa Peace Foundation USA in Washington, DC. http://new.asiaviews.org/?content=ger53rger567664&voices=20081120141855**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">For the success of this joint effort… AND …Democratic China may one day join this regime.</span>**

b. Extinction**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Alexander 3</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">professor and director of the Inter-University for Terrorism Studies 2003 <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">(Yonah;) “Terrorism myths and realities” Washington Times 8/28 l/n WBW</span></span></span>
Last week's brutal suicide bombings in Baghdad and …__AND … concerning national, regional and global security__ concerns.