[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

I affirm

Resolved: States ought not possess nuclear weapons.


I value morality. All states have an obligation to protect their citizens but because other states usually have some reason to attack, it is up to the state to find some mechanism to ensure it’s peoples safety. As such my standard is maximizing stability defined as immunity from destruction. If every state need not worry about a form of destruction whether internal or external then it will best fulfill its obligation to its people. In addition with increased stability, states will have more incentive to improve living and social conditions because they need not spend as much time or capitol invested in defense.

Contention 1: Nuclear proliferation leads to international tension

Falletti explains:
Europolitics, March 20, 2009, EU/North Korea: EU holds Extraordinary Coordination Meeting on Korean Tensions

Contention 2: The possession of nuclear weapons is not always a successful deterrent


Nuclear Weapons and Deterrence in Europe Author(s): John J. Mearsheimer Source: International Security, Vol. 9, No. 3 (Winter, 1984-1985), pp. 19-46 Published by: The MIT Press


Contention 3: With the existence of nuclear weapons there is a possibility of nuclear weapons getting into the wrong hands.

Birmingham Post, 2007, News


Contention 4: The purpose of nuclear weapons is coercion.

a) Nuclear weapons are used for coercion

According to Waldron
Terrorism and the Uses of Terror, Jeremy Waldron, The Journal of Ethics, Vol. 8, No. 1, Terrorism (2004), pp. 5-35, Published by: Springer

b) Coercion is immoral.
.
According to Hayek:
Hayek – Nobel Prize winner for Economics – 1960 (F.A., The Constitution of Liberty, p.20)

Petro extrapolates:


==Negative== 

I negate.

Ought is defined as a moral obligation, as such we must look to a world that is striving for morality – ethical wisdom, so: My value is morality.

My standard is maximizing stability, immunization from destruction.


C1 – Nuclear disarmament would only lead to an unstable rush to proliferation

William Choong, Senior Writer, The Straits Times (Singapore), April 23, 2009 Thursday, Stop worrying, Obama, Biographies Plus News, News, Most Recent 60 Dayslearn to love the Bomb;Disarmament is a noble goal but atomic arsenals are now key to stability





=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]