**<span style="font-size: 14pt; line-height: 115%;">Biopolitics AC </span>**

<span style="font-size: 90%;">The criterion for the round is reducing government biopolitical control. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">My sole contention is that nuclear weapons reinforce the biopolitical state.</span>


<span style="font-size: 90%;">Subpoint A is the Links </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">First, nuclear weapons are manifestations of a security perspective of foreign policy, reinforcing biopolitical control. Burke writes in 2007: </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Anthony, Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at UNSW, Sydney, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”, Theory and Event, 10.2, Muse</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">the nationalist ontology of…never abandoned or rethought. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Second, the destructive capabilities of nuclear weapons give states power over death, allowing extensive government biopolitical control. </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Hardt and Negri write: </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri, “Multitude: War and Democracy in the Age of Empire”, page 18, [[http://books.google.com/books?id=LM2leHxCCiIC&pg=PA18&dq=biopower+nuclear+weapons&hl=en&ei=FNJpTMCsCIK88gaggdWyBA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCgQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q&f=false]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Weapons of global…perhaps indeed of all being. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Subpoint B is the alternative </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">The Affirmative endorses a national defense consisting of civilian resistance. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Civilian resistance is an appropriate solution and substitute for nuclear deterrence. Churchill explains: </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Robert P. Churchill, Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 469, Nuclear Armament and Disarmament (Sep., 1983), pp. 46-57, “Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue” < [[http://smartaffs.googlegroups.com/web/Churchill+-+Nuclear+Arms...+Moral+Issue.pdf?gda=OPMAP14AAAD7QNf6gJDkzn4DQw5JLzn612LTU_NqqzQmkZ3rNLThC1q7BUMmJQ2_tEAMgoEojRxoNE7DtZLxoFPHfoJzHO3AmaXskJz9MiPYO5N101iKyuOwpdWz5ftt1dlzlu5J-bE]]> </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">deterrence occurs whenever a…nation would appear rational. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">A program of civilian resistance is preferable for multiple reasons. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">First, it substitutes a nuclear arsenal and thereby does not promote a biopolitical state. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Second, civilian resistance is an effective means of preventing a foreign invasion, as well as a domestic oppressive government. It actively rejects a biopolitical government. Caplan writes:</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Bryan Caplan, Humane Studies Review Volume 9, Number 1, Summer 1994. “The Literature of Nonviolent Resistance and Civilian-Based Defense”. < [[http://www.carolmoore.net/articles/nv-action-article.html]]> </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">While standard military defense…both foreign and domestic. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Third, nonviolent resistance more effectively draws support, and is uniquely suited to prevent biopolitics after an attack. Caplan 2:</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Bryan Caplan, Humane Studies Review Volume 9, Number 1, Summer 1994. “The Literature of Nonviolent Resistance and Civilian-Based Defense”. < [[http://www.carolmoore.net/articles/nv-action-article.html]]> </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Because it seems less…state if it succeeds. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Remember, all power relations can be challenged. We can always resist a biopolitical state. Kritzman writes: </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Kritzman 1988- (Lawrence D. “Foucault- Politics, Philosophy, Culture Interviews and Other Writings 1977-1984) </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Power is not a…potential refusal or revolt.</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">As an underview: </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">The use of the word “weapons” implies both the capacity and intentionality to harm. Hallet and Summy write: </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;"> [Brien Hallett, associate Professor of the Matsunaga Institute for Pease at the University of Hawaii at Manoa and Ralph Summy, Adjunct Professor of Peace and Conflict Studies at the University of Queensland. “Detooling the Language of the Master’s House: The Case of Those ‘Nuclear Things.’” Peace and Change. Volume 28, No.2. April 2003.] </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">that which makes a…to harm another person. </span>




**<span style="font-size: 14pt; line-height: 115%;">Weaponitis NC </span>**

<span style="font-size: 90%;">I value morality. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">The standard is preserving life. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">The Affirmative identifies nuclear weapons as the problem and cause of the impacts in the AC. This is unwittingly counterproductive for three reasons.</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Contention One is OUR HISTORY. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">The Affirmative’s focus on nuclear weapons only deals with a specific incarnation of our cultural obsession with super weapons. This ignores that nuclear weapons are not unique, but only part of a long historical progression dating back to the discovery that rocks kill more efficiently than fists.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 17px;">Wagar writes:</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Wagar, 1989 (W. Warren, Distinguished Teaching Professor of History at SUNY Binghamton, “Truth and Fiction, equally Strange: Writing about the bomb,” American Literary History, 1:2, Summer) </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">the real and imagined…weapons, but the vision. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">This functions as a turn to the AC. The Affirmative focuses on criticizing nuclear weapons, instead of engaging in a discussion of our cultural addiction to the current “superweapon”. This allows for even greater weapons of mass destruction to be built in the future, wreaking more havoc and destruction. </span>


<span style="font-size: 90%;">Contention Two is MASKING MILITARY ADVANCES.</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">The Affirmatives comfortable anti-nuclear politics get co-opted and used as a tool to hide interventionism, allowing for more and more military action. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Schwartz and Derber write: </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;"> (William A. Schwartz and Charles Derber, 1989, “ The Nuclear Seduction: Why the arms race doesn’t matter – and what does”) </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">weaponitis has an irresistible … this threat is coopted. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">This impact links into my standard, because it the criticism of nuclear weapons allows for militarism to expand. All the wars we fight now have only been allowed to occur because the peace movement is too busy blaming WMDs for violence and destruction.</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Contention Three is BLAMING THE BOMB.</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">The Affirmative’s focus on weapons implies the existence of legitimate weaponry and constructs them as independent actors outside of human control. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 17px;">Beier writes in 07:</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;"> (J. Marshall Beier is an Assistant Professor of Political Science at McMaster University, “Disarming Politics: Arms, Agency, and the (Post)Politics of Disarmament Advocacy,” http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2007/Beier.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">the idea of bad weapons… individualized agency to weapons. </span>


<span style="font-size: 90%;">This implicates the debate on two levels:</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">First, it functions as another turn to the AC. Assigning responsibility to these so called “bad weapons” ignores the fact that people are the root cause of the problem, and only allows for continued use.</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Second, it at least cuts away solvency from the AC. The construction of weapons as independent actors outside of human control makes reduction impossible or seemingly unnecessary.</span>