===FOR COMPLETE AND IN-DEPTH FORMATTED VERSIONS OF THESE CASES, VISIT MY [[http://www.facebook.com/pages/Charles-Riley-Wanless/306044092784|FACEBOOK]] PAGE AND VIEW THE LINKS POSTED.=== 





AFFIRMATIVE CASE

Value: Public Safety
Criterion: Social Welfare
-Social Welfare is the physical, psychological and economic well-being of citizens

Observation: The Negative cannot perm public health and criminal justice because the resolution implies they are mutually exclusive, and because it is unfair to the affirmative

C.1: Affirming is Economically Beneficial

Criminal Justice is expensive.
Version:1.0 StartHTML:0000000172 EndHTML:0000004115 StartFragment:0000002737 EndFragment:0000004079 SourceURL:file://localhost/Users/cy/Desktop/PublicAC_November.doc// 
//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;">Edward </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">**Shepard** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;">is Associate Professor and Chair of the Department of Economics at LeMoyne College, and Paul R. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">**Blackley** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;">is a Professor in the Department of Economics at LeMoyne College, “U.S. Drug Control Policies: Federal Spending on Law Enforcement versus Treatment in Public Health Outcomes,” Journal of Drug Issues, 34.4, 20</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">**04**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;">.</span>//
//"By any measure, there have...emphasis on enforcement"//

//Portugal Affirms, and sees results.//
//Version:1.0 StartHTML:0000000172 EndHTML:0000003756 StartFragment:0000002737 EndFragment:0000003720 SourceURL:file://localhost/Users/cy/Desktop/PublicAC_November.doc 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Brian </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">**Vastag**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">. "5 Years After: Portugal's Drug Decriminalization Policy Shows Positive Results: Scientific American." Rev. of Drug Decriminalization in Portugal (Cato Institute). Scientific American 7 Apr. 20</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">**09**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">. Science News, Articles and Information | Scientific American. Scientific American Online. Web. 28 Oct. 2010. <http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=portugal-drug-decriminalization>.</span>
"In the face of...improving health outcomes"

Non-empirical analysis suggests Affirmation will be economically good.
Shepard and Blackley II
"In contrast, those who favor...more comprehensive assessment"

C.2: Affirming is Physically Beneficial

Drug addicts are punished unjustly in the criminal justice system.
Version:1.0 StartHTML:0000000172 EndHTML:0000003583 StartFragment:0000002737 EndFragment:0000003547 SourceURL:file://localhost/Users/cy/Desktop/PublicAC_November.doc// 
//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Stephen J. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">**Morse** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">is Ferdinand Wakeman Hubbell Professor of Law and Professor of Psychology and Law in Psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania, “Addiction, Genetics and Criminal Responsibility,” Law and Contemporary Problems, 69.1-2, 20</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">**06**</span>//
//"The account of criminal...takes desert seriously"//

//Criminalization does not solve physical harms.//
//Version:1.0 StartHTML:0000000172 EndHTML:0000003644 StartFragment:0000002737 EndFragment:0000003608 SourceURL:file://localhost/Users/cy/Desktop/PublicAC_November.doc 
<span style="margin-bottom: 19pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Saul </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Takahashi** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">was employed until March 2009 at the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, as Drug Control Officer in the Convention Evaluation Section of the International Narcotics Control Board Secretariat, “Drug Control, Human Rights, and the Right to the Highest Attainable Standard of Health: By No Means Straightforward Issues,” Human Rights Quarterly, 31.3, August 20</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**09**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>
"Some organizations have...prevention and care services"

C.3: Affirming is Psychologically Beneficial

The heavier the law, the more people want to break it.
Version:1.0 StartHTML:0000000172 EndHTML:0000003535 StartFragment:0000002737 EndFragment:0000003499 SourceURL:file://localhost/Users/cy/Desktop/PublicAC_November.doc 
<span style="margin-bottom: 19pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Tonya </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Aultman-Bettridge**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">, Technical Assistance Coordinator for the Center for the Study and Prevention of Violence, University of Colorado, Spring, 19</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**99**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;"> (Florida Journal of Law and Public Policy, “ISSUES IN JUVENILE JUSTICE: Analyzing Juvenile Justice Policy: A Critical Review”, 10 J. Law. & Pub. Pol'y, p. 341)</span></span>
"Jenson and Howard outline...punishment-oriented reforms"





NEGATIVE CASE

Observation: The AC must prove criminal justice ineffective and public health effective. If he doesn't uphold, you negate

C.1: Criminal Justice Works

Fights drug trafficking.

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Antonio </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Maria Costa</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Executive Director of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, World Drug Report 2009. New York: United Nations Publications. 20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"But even when...criminal justice system"</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Cocaine is another example; more laws, less use</span>

<span style="margin: auto auto 19pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Joseph </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Spillane</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> is Associate Professor of History at the University of Floriday, “Did Drug Prohibition Work?: Reflections on the End of the First Cocaine Experience in the United States, 1910-45,” Journal of Drug Issues, 28.2, 19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">98.</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: auto auto 19pt;">"Historical accounts attribute...outside the united states"</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: auto auto 19pt;">﻿Criminal Justice solves health problems.</span>
<span style="margin: auto auto 19pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">﻿</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**National Institute of Drug Abuse**</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, “Treating Offenders with Drug Problems: Integrating Public Health and Public Safety,” National Institutes of Health, March 20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, accessed 7/10/10 [[http://www.nida.nih.gov/tib/drugs_crime.html]]</span></span>
<span style="margin: auto auto 19pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">﻿</span>"Substance abusing individuals...cannot go unheeded"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: auto auto 19pt;">﻿C.2: Public Health Alone will Not Work</span>

<span style="margin: auto auto 19pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">﻿</span>-Affirming removes all policing power</span>
<span style="margin: auto auto 19pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">﻿</span>Changing the status of dugs doesn't change usage.</span>
<span style="margin: auto auto 19pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Institute For Behavior and Health</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, focuses on national drug abuse policies that emphasize prevention and investment in better treatment approaches, “What's Wrong with Legalizing Illegal Drugs,” March 24, 20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, [[http://www.ibhinc.org/pdfs/WhatsWrongwithLegalizingIllegalDrugs32409.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: auto auto 19pt;">"The analogy to...and legal drug supply"</span>