<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">﻿</span>[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 


Inherency:
Observation 1: Inherency

Okinawa Prefecture will maintain over half of the unpopular troop presence there-
AOLNews.com US Military Uses Comics to Highlight Japan Alliance 8/3/2010 http://www.aolnews.com/world /article/us-military-uses-comics-to-highlight-japan-alliance/19578903

The U.S. and [...] nearly 50,000 American troops.


The Plan
The United States federal government will immediately implement withdrawal of the III Marine Expeditionary Force Personnel from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.

Advantage 1 is DPJ

The recent Upper House election jeopardizes the DPJ’s agenda—the Okinawa issue is the lynchpin of a crisis in Japanese governance.
Stars and Stripes—an independent news source that operates from inside the United States Department of Defense but is editorially separate from it, 2010 (“Japan election could impede Futenma progress,” Byline David Allen and Chiyomi Sumida, July 14th, Available Online at http://www.stripes.com/news/japan-election-could-impede-futenma-progress-1.110973, Accessed 07-19-2010)

The poor showing of Japan’s ruling [...] understanding of Okinawa,” Okada said.


The decision about Futenma relocation has been pushed back until November—Kan is praying for the plan so he can save face.
Andy Sharp, writer for the Tokyo Note, independent journalist and translator based in Tokyo, and former staff writer for The Daily Yomiuri, 08/02/2010 (“Here We Go Again?,” Tokyo Notes, August 2nd, Available Online at http://the-diplomat.com/tokyo-notes/2010/08/02/here-we-go-again/, Accessed 08-02-2010)

The Okinawan people must feel the [...] them sounding like a broken record.

U.S. accommodation is key to save Kan’s administration—pressure will decimate the fragile DPJ coalition.
The Globe and Mail—a Canadian English language nationally distributed newspaper, 2010 (“Obama’s blunder on Okinawa,” editorial, June 2nd, Available Online at http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/opinions/editorials/obamas-blunder-on-okinawa/article1601528/, Accessed 07-19-2010)

President Barack Obama has not shown [...] his colleagues should be more accommodating.


Resolution of the Futenma dispute is key to effective DPJ coalition-building—that’s key to their agenda.
Kyodo News, 2010 (“Two small parties to form up for Diet session,” July 16th, Available Online at http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100716a8.html, Accessed 07-20-2010)

The Social Democratic Party said Thursday [...] S. Futenma base within Okinawa.


Scenario 1 is Warming:
A strong DPJ is key to passing climate legislation.
Risa Maeda and Chisa Fujoka, “Japan aims to pass climate bill by year end Climate talks”, 6-16-2010; Reporters for Eco-Business.Com,
http://www.eco-business.com/news/2010/jun/16/japan-aims-pass-climate-bill-yr-end-un-talks/

Japan will aim to pass a [...] change talks, including COP 16.


Domestic action on climate change is key to bolster Japanese leadership on climate – that’s key to global action.
Monir Hossain Moni, May 2009, “Why Japan’s Development Aid Matters Most for Dealing with Global Environmental Problems”, Asia Pacific Review: Volume 16, Issue 1, Pages 8-36; Ph.D, Graduate School of Asia-Pacific Studies, Professor at the Univresity of Dhaka in Bangladesh, Japan Foreign Policy expert; d/a 7-19; Accessed via Informaworld Journals

Environmental ODA has been the cornerstone [...] to deal with global environmental problems.


DPJ’s climate policy is good—Helps Japan competitiveness and reaches emissions targets
BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific. UN climate chief hails Japan's emission cut pledge.9/7/2009 http://home.kyodo.co.jp/modules/fstStory/index.php?storyid=458722 7/27/2010

UN climate chief Yvo de Boer [...] more competitive," de Boer said.


Warming leads to extinction
Oliver Tickell, Climate Researcher, 8/11/2008, On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction, The Guardian, pg. np

We need to get prepared for [...] us towards a similar hothouse Earth.


Scenario 2 is Afghanistan

An effective DPJ is key to peace in Afghanistan—Japan’s reputation is vital to the reconciliation process.
Josh Rogin, covered defense and foreign policy as a staff writer for Congressional Quarterly, writing extensively on Iraq, Afghanistan, Guantánamo Bay, U.S.-Asia relations, defense budgeting and appropriations, and the defense lobbying and contracting industries, graduate of George Washington University's Elliott School of International Affairs, worked at the Japanese embassy, 2009 (“Can Japan bring peace to Afghanistan?,” The Cable—a Foreign Policy blog, November 26th, Available Online at http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/11/25/ can_japan_bring_peace_to_afghanistan, Accessed 07-16-2010)

As far as we know, [...] having direct contacts with the Taliban."

Third—Kan is committed to aiding the Karzai government—that’s key to restore peace and stability in Afghanistan.
Yamaguchi 10 (Mari, 17 June 2010, Afghan vows to use Japan's aid effectively, http://www.signonsandiego.com/news/2010/jun/17/afghan-vows-to-use-japans-aid-effectively/, accessed 19 July 2010)

Afghan President Hamid Karzai promised Thursday [...] capital of Nara before leaving Sunday.

Finally—continued instability in Afghanistan results in a Taliban caliphate, the break-up of Pakistan, and nuclear war.
Morgan 7 [Stephen J. former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, political writer including books such as The Mind of a Terrorist Fundamentalist – the Cult of Al Qaeda -- “Better Another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan” March 4 -- http://ezinearticles.com/?Better-Another-Taliban-Afghanistan,-than-a-Taliban-NUCLEAR-Pakistan?&id=475808]

However events may prove him sorely [...] and Russia pitted against the US.


Advantage 2 is North Korea:

North Korea views the U.S. Marine Corps presence in Okinawa as an existential threat to its sovereignty—they are preparing to respond with military force.
KCNA (Korea Central News Agency), the state-run news agency of North Korea, 2010 [4/13/10, "North Korean agency criticizes USA's "sudden change" theory", Text of report by state-run North Korean news agency KCNA website, from BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific, lexis]

Lately, the United States is [...] the self-defensive war deterrent.

This is not an empty threat—North Korea is building up its military capabilities including its nuclear arsenal in order to wage war against the United States—Okinawa is the key flashpoint.
Pyongyang Broadcasting Station 2003 (5/14/03, "North Korea says US wants to resolve nuclear issue through war", BBC Summary of World Broadcasts, lexis)

In a situation where DPRK Democratic [...] remarks urinun kyolk'o pinmarul haji anunda.

Continued military presence makes entanglement with North Korea inevitable—this would draw the U.S. into an unnecessary but bloody conflict.
Doug Bandow, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan and Senior Policy Analyst in the 1980 Reagan for President Campaign, holds a B.A. in Economics from Florida State University and a J.D. from Stanford University, 2010 (“Avoiding Pyongyang,” The National Interest Online, May 24th, Available Online at http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23432)

The sinking of the Cheonan was [...] might the Kim regime do next?


North Korean aggression will quickly escalate to nuclear conflict—they’re willing to destroy the planet to protect their interests.
Bennett 10 [Bruce, Senior Defense Analyst, Ph.D. in policy analysis, RAND Graduate Institute (now the Pardee RAND Graduate School); B.S. in economics, California Institute of Technology “Uncertainties in the North Korean Nuclear Threat”, NATIONAL DEFENSE RESEARCH INSTITUTE, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522763&Location=U2&doc= GetTRDoc.pdf]

North Korea actively uses its [...] to sell them to third parties.


The impact is global nuclear war.
Peter Hayes, Professor of International Relations at RMIT University (Australia) and Director of the Nautilus Institute in San Francisco, and Michael Hamel-Green, Dean of and Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development at Victoria University (Australia), 2009 (“The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, December 14th, Available Online at http://www.japanfocus.org/-Peter-Hayes/3267)

At worst, there is the [...] priority consideration from the international community.

Probability high – failing state
Bennett 10 [Bruce, Senior Defense Analyst, Ph.D. in policy analysis, RAND Graduate Institute (now the Pardee RAND Graduate School); B.S. in economics, California Institute of Technology “Uncertainties in the North Korean Nuclear Threat”, NATIONAL DEFENSE RESEARCH INSTITUTE, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522763&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]

North Korea is a failing state [...] the North without immense foreign assistance.








The plan is key to avoid catastrophic U.S. involvement in regional quagmires—only exiting Okinawa can refashion the U.S.-Japan alliance to secure regional stability.
Doug Bandow, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan and Senior Policy Analyst in the 1980 Reagan for President Campaign, holds a B.A. in Economics from Florida State University and a J.D. from Stanford University, 2010 (“Japan Can Defend Itself,” The National Interest Online, May 12th, Available Online at http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11804)
With Tokyo retreating from its commitment [...] It's time for Washington to deliver.

DU AFF- Dowling
=<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt; text-align: left;">[[#_Toc279677567]][[#_Toc279677521]][[#_Toc279677458]] </span>= 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">U.S. admits use of Depleted uranium and knowledge of its harms yet we continue to violate
<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Brussels Tribunal</span></span> 10 </span><span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.brussellstribunal.org/pdf/war_crimes_iraq_101006.pdf]]

</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Thus the plan the United States federal government should remove its depleted uranium presence from Iraq, Afghanistan, and Kuwait.


Observation 2 is human rights </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Use of DU is poisoning troops and causing birth defects </span>
Gabriel <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Cousens 2006</span></span> MD Amherst College http://www.i-amperfectlyhealthy.com/DepletedUranium.html
</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">DU gives troops cancer </span>
</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Huffington Post</span></span> 1/27/<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2010</span></span> http://www.huffingtonpost.com/r-b-stuart/depleted-uranium-from-sea_b_437346.html
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">As early as 2007 ...</span></span> (the military's resolve of disposing their sanitation in landfills---is burning the refuse, no matter what the content, in acre size dirt pits).
</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">DU causes blood to flow from every orifice </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.wired.com/techbiz/media/news/2006/08/71585?currentPag=2|﻿]]</span>[[http://www.wired.com/techbiz/media/news/2006/08/71585?currentPag=2]]</span></span>
=<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Use of DU munitions constitutes genocide of the Iraqi people </span></span></span>= 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Douglas 7</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ian, visiting professor in politics at An-Najah National University, “US Genocide in Iraq,” http://www.brusselstribunal.org/pdf/NotesOnGenocideInIraq.pdf) Showers </span>
</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Looking closer, ....</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It is intent to destroy that is the</span></span> basis of the <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">crime of genocide, </span></span>illustrated in definable acts that constitute — or would — genocide.</span>
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Even tiny amounts of DU cause cancer </span>
</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Etchison, ‘7</span></span> – PhD [Craig, //Truthout//, “Depleted Uranium: Pernicious Killer Keeps on Killing”, 2/19, http://www.cleaniraq.org/pages/e_Pernicious_Killer.htm //adi]//</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">As Dr. Bertell writes, ".....<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> These particles won't dissolve and won't lose their radioactivity</span>
</span></span></span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">We have a moral imperative to clean up DU munitions – we must correct the atrocities of the government </span>
</span>//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Hammill, ‘7 – Hamill has taught in prisons for fourteen years, in artist-in-residency programs for twenty years, and has worked extensively with battered woman and children. He has been the recipient of fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts, the Guggenheim Foundation, the Woodrow Wilson Foundation, the U.S.-Japan Friendship Commission, two Washington Governor’s Arts Awards, the Stanley Lindberg Lifetime Achievement Award for Editing, and the Washington Poets Association Lifetime Achievement Award for poetry. He co-founded Copper Canyon Press with Tree Swenson and was Editor there from 1972 through 2004. In January 2003, he founded Poets Against War, editing an anthology with the same name, Poets Against the War (Nation Books, 2003). His work has been translated into more than a dozen languages [Sam, “What Country is This” </span></span>//Poets Against War Newsletter//, Autumn 2007, http://www.poetsagainstthewar.org/newsletter/2007/what_country.asp// adi]
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">We, the People, ....Iraq with depleted uranium.</span></span> </span>
</span><span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">D.U. kills children
<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Asahi Shimbun 10</span></span> http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201011220289.html
I visited the city of Arbil, the capital of the Kurdistan Autonomous Region in northern Iraq, in April.
I traveled with doctors from ... children. Sabreen's death reminds us of that. </span>
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Observation 3 is the environment </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">D.U. destroys Iraqi ecosystems </span>
</span><span style="color: black;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">TVNZ, 10/25/10 http://tvnz.co.nz/content/2229835/425822/article.html </span>
</span></span><span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Long after the shooting...</span></span> issue is important. But the environment is also important," Othman said. </span>
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Systemic environmental contamination perpetuates radioactive danger for hundreds of years. </span>
</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">MTP 03</span></span> (KAHAE Military Toxics Project, June 2003, “"Depleted" Uranium Munitions: Nuclear Waste as a Weapon,” online: http://www.kahea.org/lcr/pdf/Depleted_Uranium_Fact_Sheet.pdf #!tylerd)
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Immediate battlefield ....Children living in affected areas are particularly at risk of playing in DU contaminated areas, and ingesting contaminated soil. </span>
</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">DU kills biodiversity –Effects all </span>
</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Gabriel <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Cousens 2006</span></span> MD Amherst College http://www.i-amperfectlyhealthy.com/DepletedUranium.html<span class="underline"> </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">We are ... in their cells at 30 times the level of their environment. </span></span>It is imperative that we consider whether we want to consume flesh food in the light of this reality. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">And Depleted Uranium environmental destruction spills over </span>
</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">By Phyllis <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Bennis and</span></span> Erik <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Leaver</span></span> and the IPS Iraq Task Force August 31, <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2005 The</span></span> Iraq Quagmire </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Loss of Biodiversity means extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Chivian et al 8 [Dr. Eric Chivian, “Sustaining Life: How Human Health Depends on Biodiversity”, June 2008, Oxford University Press, Dr. Eric Chivian is Founder and Director of the Center for Health and the Global Environment, and an Assistant Clinical Professor of Psychiatry, at Harvard Medical School. In 1980, he co-founded (with Professors Bernard Lown, Herbert Abrams, and James Muller) International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, recipient of the 1985 Nobel Peace Prize., http://www.cohabitaire.com/?p=449] </span>
</span><span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In short, yes, we are potentially doomed</span></span><span style="color: black;">.....</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">people heading to 9 billion people in 2050.” </span>
</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">And Depleted Uranium has the potential to turn Iraq into a wasteland – already cancer rates are skyrocketing </span>
</span></span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 68.85pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Etchison, ‘7</span></span> – PhD [Craig, //Truthout//, “Depleted Uranium: Pernicious Killer Keeps on Killing”, 2/19, http://www.cleaniraq.org/pages/e_Pernicious_Killer.htm //adi]//</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">
</span></span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">We must also consider ...could kill half a million Iraqis.
</span></span></span></span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">
</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Observation 4 is Ethics
</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Being aware of suffering creates an obligation to solve it
</span></span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Smith 3</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Michael, associate professor of French at Berry College, “Emmanuel Levinas' Ethics of Responsibility,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">[[http://www.kennesaw.edu/clubs/psa/pdfs/Smith_2003_PSA.pdf]]</span>) Showers
</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">
</span></span></span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">One of the most surprising ... in its being is interrupted.”5
</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">
</span></span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Ethical action trumps abstract philosophical an political actions
</span></span><span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif';">Alan </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Gewirth</span><span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif';">, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Chicago,</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> 1982
</span><span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif';">[</span><span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT','sans-serif';">Human Rights </span>//<span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif';">p. 218-219, 225-230] It is a widely ....Thus it may be argued that the morally correct , it does not affect his moral duty not to torture his mother to death, so that her </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">correlative right remains absolute.</span>
</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">

</span></span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">It is impossible to both disengage from hypothesizing and solving real world problems
</span></span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">David E. <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">McClean</span></span>, <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2001</span></span>, “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope,” Am. Phil. Conf., www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm
Yet for some reason, at least partially explicated in Richard Rorty's Achieving Our Country, a book that I think is long overdue, leftist critics continue to cite and refer to the eccentric and ...knowledge and admission of the nation's shortcomings. In other words, <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the Cultural Left</span></span>, in </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">disrespect for the so-called "managerial class."
</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">

</span></span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">
</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Observation 5 is nuclear war won’t happen
</span></span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">
Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction – models prove
Seitz 2006 - former associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University’s Center for International Affairs (Russell, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown Photoshopping the Apocalypse”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">[[http://adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)

Nuclear war stays limited – military calculus would not prefer escalation.

</span></span><span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Martin 82 (Brian, Published in Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, 1982, pp. 287-300. “Critique of Nuclear Extinction”, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html)KM
It often has been argued that the use of a few nuclear weapons could lead, gradually or suddenly, to an all-out nuclear war between the superpowers. But it is also at .....counterproductive in its effects<span style="background: aqua;">.

</span></span></span>
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Politics- Bipart-Bipart-Bipart**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**A. Bipart dead** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Salt Lake Tribune 11/4**</span></span>/2010 http://www.sltrib.com/sltrib/opinion/50587761-82/gridlock-congress-democrats-hold.html.csp</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 12pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__For two years we’ve heard that .....__</span>**us to two more years of gridlock for their own political advantage? </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none;">**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">B. Foreign Policy Issues are Bipartisan
</span></span>**<span class="apple-style-span">Benson, Pam.</span> <span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**CNN. November 3**</span></span><span class="apple-style-span">, 2010
</span><span class="underline">**__Republicans taking ...__**</span> values," Clinton told reporters traveling with her in New Guinea. </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**C. Bipartisanship breeds more bipartisanship** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**CNN 11/1/**</span></span>2010 <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.cnn.com/2010/POLITICS/11/01/senate.at.stake/index.html]]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Former Sen. John Sununu of New Hampshire,... to figure out next steps. I simply don't know what will happen."  </span></span>
**D. Bipartisanship is crucial to Iran Strikes**
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none;">**Washington Examiner 12/22/2009** http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/politics/On-Iran_-a-bipartisan-message-to-Obama_-Act-now-8671679-79871667.html </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__"<span style="background: yellow;">This is ....</span>__</span>**, Dennis Kucinich and Ron Paul.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**E. Iran Strikes Lead to all out Middle East War** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**FoxNews August 20**</span></span>,2010 [[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2010/08/19/worst-case-scenarios-possible-strike-plans-iran-involve-risky-options]] </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 20pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow;">The downside ".....</span>__</span>**<span style="background: yellow;">,"</span> Gardiner said. <span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>