[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==**GDS 1AC**== 
===INHERENCY=== 
**Contention One is The Status Quo—**

**American insistence on creating a new replacement facility for Futenma Air Station after the base’s closure in Japan is preventing Japan from developing ties with other East Asian countries and creating uncertainty over the stability of the U.S.-Japan Alliance.**
**Talmadge, ’10**
[Eric Talmadge, Writer for The Associated Press, “US-Japan security alliance strained by base decision, other pressures on its 50th anniversary,” May 22nd 2010, [[http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/world/us-japan-security-alliance-strained-by-base-decision-other-pressures-on-its-50th-anniversary-96862119.html]]] AP
Uncertainty over a Marine base and plans to move thousands of U.S. troops to Guam are straining a post-World War II security alliance Japan and the United States set 50 years ago, but Tokyo's new leader said Tuesday he stands behind the pact. Prime Minister Naoto Kan said he sees the arrangement as a crucial means of maintaining the balance of power in Asia, where the economic and military rise of China is looming large, and vowed to stand behind it despite recent disputes with Washington. "Keeping our alliance with the United States contributes to peace in the region," Kan said in a televised question-and-answer session with other party leaders. "Stability helps the U.S.-Japan relationship, and that between China and Japan and, in turn, China and the United States." The U.S.-Japan alliance, formalized over violent protests in 1960, provides for the defense of Japan while assuring the U.S. has regional bases that serve as a significant deterrent to hostilities over the Korean Peninsula or Taiwan. Under the pact, promulgated 50 years ago Wednesday, nearly 50,000 American troops are deployed throughout Japan. The U.S. forces include a key naval base south of Tokyo where the only permanently forward-deployed aircraft carrier has its home port; Kadena Air Base, which is one of the largest in Asia; and more than 10,000 U.S. Marines on the southern island of Okinawa. The large U.S. presence over the past five decades has allowed Japan to keep its own defense spending low, to about 1 percent of its GDP, and focus its spending elsewhere — a factor that helped it rebuild after World War II to become the world's second-largest economy. "Even though there are some small problems here and there, in the bigger sense the relationship remains strong," said Jun Iio, a professor at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo. "Very few people think that it is actually necessary to make major changes in the alliance." But while the alliance is one of the strongest Washington has anywhere in the world, it has come under intense pressure lately over a plan to make sweeping reforms that would pull back roughly 8,600 Marines from Okinawa to the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam. The move was conceived in response to opposition on Okinawa to the large U.S. military presence there
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">— more than half of the U.S. troops in Japan are on Okinawa, which was one of the bloodiest battlefields of World War II. Though welcomed by many at first, the relocation plan has led to renewed Okinawan protests over the U.S. insistence it cannot be carried out unless a new base is built on Okinawa to replace one that has been set for closing for more than a decade. A widening rift between Washington and Tokyo over the future of the Futenma Marine Corps Air Station was a major factor in the resignation of Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama earlier this month. It could well plague Kan as well. Kan has vowed to build a replacement facility on Okinawa, as the U.S. demanded, but details are undecided. Implementing the agreement would need the support of the local governor, who has expressed opposition to it. Kan was scheduled to visit Okinawa on Wednesday for ceremonies marking the end of the 1945 battle there that hastened Japan's surrender. Recent tension on the Korean peninsula and China's growing military assertiveness have undoubtedly driven home the importance of the U.S. security pact with Japanese leaders. Before he stepped down, Hatoyama suggested that the March sinking of a South Korean warship, allegedly by a North Korean torpedo, contributed to his decision keep Futenma on Okinawa — reversing a campaign pledge to move it off the island. Tokyo was alarmed in April when a Chinese helicopter came within 300 feet (90 meters) of a Japanese military monitoring vessel in the vicinity of a Chinese naval exercise. That same month, Chinese ships were also spotted in international waters off Okinawa. Still, the Okinawa problem underscores an increasingly skeptical stance among some Japanese leaders toward the role of the security alliance. Though the pact was strongly supported by the staunchly pro-U.S. conservative party that ruled Japan for most of the past 60 years, the newly empowered Democratic Party of Japan, which swept to office last year, have taken a more nuanced approach, saying that while close security ties with Washington remain crucial Japan needs to improve its relations with its Asian neighbors, particularly China. On Monday, Kan said he will reassure Obama when they meet at a summit this weekend that Japan-U.S. ties continue to be "the cornerstone" of Japan's diplomacy. But he added that "I want to view this relationship from a broader point of view," and stressed Japan must not forget the importance of developing its Asian relationships. </span>

**US military presence in Okinawa is spurring grassroots opposition within Japan against—threatens to devastate the US Japan alliance and US power projection capabilities**
**Auslin, Japanese Studies Director @ AEI, ’10**
[Michael Auslin, Director of Japanese Studies @ The American Enterprise Institute, Former Senior Research Fellow @ The MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies @ Yale, “The Real Futenma Fallout,” June 16th 2010, [[http://epaper.wsj-asia.com/WSJA/WSJA/2010/06/17/ArticleHtmls/17_06_2010_013_017.shtml]]]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">A great sigh of relief erupted</span></span> in Washington and Tokyo Friday <span class="CardChar0">when</span> Prime Minister Naoto <span class="CardChar0">Kan reaffirmed his commitment to the U</span>nited <span class="CardChar0">S</span>tates-<span class="CardChar0">Japan security alliance. In particular, defense officials focused on Mr. Kan's promise to stick with a 2006 agreement with the U.S. to move a Marine air wing from one part of Okinawa Island to another. But even so, there remain fissures in the U.S.-Japan relationship that could erupt into further crises for the alliance. Senior Japanese military officials</span> I've recently interviewed <span class="CardChar0">believe</span> former Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama set back Tokyo's rela tions with its own citizens in Okinawa by at least a decade by waffling on the 2006 deal, and that <span class="CardChar0">the opposition to U.S. bases in Japan, emboldened by the former prime minister's position, could endanger much broader bilateral military relations between the two countries.</span> This bigger story has received almost no attention in domestic or foreign press, but needs to be understood by those dismissive of the recent spat's importance. <span class="CardChar0">The 2006 agreement to move the Marine air wing at Futenma to Camp Schwab in the northern part of the island, and 8,000 Marines to Guam from Okinawa, was just one part of a broader realignment of U.S. forces in Japan. In the view of senior Japanese military leadership, however, the actual centerpiece of the 2006 agreement is the expansion of Marine Corps Air Station</span> (MCAS) Iwakuni, located <span class="CardChar0">in Yamaguchi Prefecture, in the west of Japan's main island, Honshu.</span> MCAS Iwakuni already hosts several Marine air squadrons, including the only American F/A-18 Hornet squadron permanently based abroad. Under the 2006 agreement, the USS George Washington's fighters, which comprise the navy's only permanently forward-deployed air wing, will relocate to Iwakuni by 2014 from the more congested Naval Air Facility Atsugi, located close to Tokyo. <span class="CardChar0">In addition, a squadron of Marine Corps KC-130 tankers will also vacate Futenma for Iwakuni. In their stead, a squadron of Japanese Maritime SelfDefense Forces surveillance planes, P-3s, will leave Iwakuni for Atsugi. All this might sound confusing, but the planned realignment will in essence reduce the chances of catastrophic accidents happening in heavily populated areas at both Futenma and Atsugi, and will build up the less-populated Iwakuni base. Here's the rub: The U.S. Department of Defense has made it clear that, unless the entire 2006 realignment plan goes forward, no individual pieces will be set in motion. And it all depends on moving the Marine helicopters out of Futenma, which has long been a source of political contention between Tokyo and Washington. The Japanese government</span>, moreover, <span class="CardChar0">is committed to moving its surveillance planes to Atsugi, but that move probably won’t happen if the American carrier air wing stays put. Japanese military officials worry that this year’s protests in Okinawa could have spillover effects, inspiring protesters around Atsugi to demand a reduced American presence, and possibly even agitating against the government plan to move Japanese planes there.</span> Moreover, Iwakuni’s mayor might reject the new burden of potentially hosting the George Washington’s air wing. <span class="CardChar0">That, in turn, would embolden antinuclear protesters in Yokosuka, the U.S. Navy’s main base, to step up their ongoing pressure to move the nuclear-powered George Washington, the Navy’s only permanently forward deployed aircraft carrier, out of Japanese waters. This worst-case scenario would be a series of simultaneous, grassroots movements against the U.S. military presence in Japan that could potentially put fatal stress on the bilateral security alliance and effectively isolate Japan militarily in the western Pacific.</span> Given Mr. Hatoyama’s fate when he botched this issue, <span class="CardChar0">politicians now are more likely to respond to public demands or they will be replaced by those who do. The resulting political clash would either reaffirm tight ties with Washington or lead to endemic paralysis in Japan’s national security establishment. Given that the U.S. has permanently forward deployed ships and planes only in Japan, any scenario like the one sketched out above could significantly weaken U.S. capability to operate in the western Pacific, and thus call into question U.S. credibility as the underwriter of regional stability at a time when a crisis is brewing on the Korean peninsula and China continues to flex its naval and air muscle. Anyone concerned about that scenario</span>, even if unlikely, <span class="CardChar0">realizes that the next half-decade of U.S.-Japan relations will have to go back to basics: rebuilding trust in the relationship, agreeing on a common set of objectives in Japan’s waters and throughout Northeast Asia, and strengthening a commitment to upholding the alliance’s military capabilities. The good news is that Japan’s bureaucrats and military leaders remain more committed than ever to revitalizing the alliance. Whether politicians on both sides of the Pacific are willing to follow them, however, is another matter. No one believes that Washington and Tokyo are about to end their half-century-old alliance over an airstrip on an island in the middle of the ocean. But no one imagined, either, that a carefully crafted, decade-long negotiating process would be so carelessly upended by short-term political calculations.</span> Prime Minister Kan can’t afford to ignore the fissures opened by his predecessor and should work to heal them.
</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">**Thus the plan—The United States Federal Government should close the Marines Corp Air Station Futenma in the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan and phase out all Marines stationed on Okinawa except for the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit to the point of elimination. We’ll Clarify.**</span>

===﻿Advantage 1: Alliance=== 
**Contention Two is The Alliance**

**Scenario One is East Asia**

**A strong alliance key to create lasting stability in East Asia—bolsters our deterrent capabilities against all major threats and allows for regional interdependence—solves for Chinese aggression over Taiwan, North Korean Nuclearizaiton, and is key to keeping open sea lines of communications**
Rapp, Former CFR Fellow @ Tokyo’s IIPS, ’04
[<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">William E. Rapp, Former Council on Foreign Relations—Hitachi International Affairs Fellow @ The Institute for International Policy Studies in Tokyo, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, Ph.D. in International Relations from Stanford University, </span></span>“<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=367|Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance]]</span>,” January 1st 2004, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub367.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This monograph began by making the assertion that </span><span class="CardChar0">the alliance can and must become more than simply a narrow defense pact if both the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and Japan want to be successful in shaping the security future of East Asia in ways that support peace, prosperity, and the growth of democratic and human values. In the next several decades, East Asia in particular will need the stability and positive character of Japan and the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">working in close concert.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> There is a distinct need for positive complementarities in the relationship. </span><span class="CardChar0">This power sharing could result in an alliance well suited to handle</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, in a positive manner, </span><span class="CardChar0">the most important challenge of the ﬁrst half of the 21st century―the character of the rise of China to superpower status. Tight coordination of policy and increased military capability will vastly increase the deterrence credibility of the alliance.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> As Diet Representative Eisei Ito noted, </span><span class="CardChar0">“The best way to deal with China is for Japan and the U.S. to be partners in the truest sense and consult closely and frankly over policy toward that country.”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 207 </span><span class="CardChar0">Working together with one voice may be the best means of engaging China in the coming decades, preventing the opening of an exploitable rift, precluding the forceful reuniﬁcation of Taiwan and the mainland, and creating a path that both facilitates Chinese national interests and the peace and prosperity of the entire region.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 208 </span><span class="CardChar0">North Korea and its quest for nuclear weapons represent a salient opportunity for the alliance to act in concert for the stability of Northeast Asia. No resolution of the current crisis on the Peninsula will be possible without both Japan and the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">working together within an agreed strategic framework. In addition, the powerful American and Japanese navies can help to guarantee the maintenance of the vital sea lines of communication</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (SLOC) </span><span class="CardChar0">running through Southeast and East Asia.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 209 About 52 percent of all commercial sea cargo (59 percent of supertankers) transit this region amid thorny and unresolved issues of territorial boundaries, intrastate governance problems, and piracy. 210 For Japan, the routes are even more important―over 85 percent of the oil Japan imports sails through these sea lanes. 211 </span><span class="CardChar0">Piracy in South and Southeast Asian shipping lanes remains a major hazard, especially in Indonesian waters and the Straits of Malacca.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 212 </span><span class="CardChar0">At present, Japan is committed to protect only SLOCs out to 1,000 miles from Osaka and Tokyo.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 213 </span><span class="CardChar0">This arc of committed sea lane protection does not even extend all the way through the vital Bashi Channel to the southern end of Taiwan and the northern entrance to the South China Sea.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Increasing this Japanese maritime reach through port calls, freedom of navigation cruises into the Indian Ocean, and combined exercises should be encouraged. 214 </span><span class="CardChar0">Aiding in the provision of unfettered SLOCs, which beneﬁt most of Southeast and East Asia, also may reassure Asia about the future role of the Japanese military, thus increasing Japan’s ability to comprehensively engage ASEAN. Working in concert, the two alliance partners could expand their tight cooperation into associated security realms within the region. WMD and ballistic missile nonproliferation, cyber-terrorism, and counternarcotics are just three examples of potentially fruitful venues for increased cooperation. Ideally, the alliance would continue to deepen into a multidimensional force for peace and prosperity in East Asia.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The Proliferation Security Initiative hopefully is a harbinger of further expansion beyond the original scope of the alliance. </span><span class="CardChar0">Finally, the alliance can provide the continuity of peace and trust necessary for the growth of liberalism throughout the region. Success for the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and Japan will increasingly be measured in terms of an increased community of vibrant, paciﬁc, free-market democracies in Asia. Making the two publics aware of the idealistic beneﬁts of the alliance will make more headway toward acceptance of a deepening partnership than simply focusing on the alliance’s role in power politics in the region.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Creating the conditions for that liberal development and tamping down the anticipated frictions that will arise along the way can best be accomplished in tandem. </span><span class="CardChar0">In the long run, this liberalism backed by the concerted power of the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and Japan will bring lasting stability to the region. </span>


**Numerous factors make the breakout of conflict more likely than anywhere else—a strong alliance is key to check**
**Ikenberry & Mastanduno, Professors @ Princeton & Dartmouth, ’03**
[J. John Ikenberry, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton University, Michael Mastanduno, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences & Nelson A. Rockefeller Professor of Government @ Dartmouth College, “International Relations Theory and The Asia Pacific,” 2003, Pg. 25-27] AP
<span class="CardChar0">Many scholars and analysts argue that in the twenty-first century international instability is more likely in East Asia than in Western Europe. Whether one looks at variables favored by realists or liberals, East Asia appears more dangerous. The region is characterized by major shifts in the balance of power, skewed distributions of economic and political power</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> within and </span><span class="CardChar0">between countries, political and cultural heterogeneity, growing but still relatively low levels of intraregional economic interdependence, anemic security institutionalization, and widespread territorial disputes that combine natural resource issues with postcolonial nationalism.' If security dilemma theory is applied to East Asia, the chance for spirals of tension in the area seems great</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, particularly in the absence of a U.S. military presence in the region. </span><span class="CardChar0">The theory states that, in an uncertain and anarchic international system, mistrust between two or more potential adversaries can lead each side to take precautionary and defensively motivated measures that are perceived as offensive threats. This can lead to countermeasures in kind, thus ratcheting up regional tensions, reducing security, and creating self-fulfilling prophecies about the danger of one's security environment.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> If we look at the variables that might fuel security dilemma dynamics, East Asia appears quite dangerous</span><span class="CardChar0">. From a standard realist perspective, not only could dramatic and unpredictable changes in the distribution of capabilities in East Asia increase un-certainty and mistrust, but the importance of sea-lanes and secure energy supplies to almost all regional actors could also encourage a destabilizing competition to develop power-projection capabilities on the seas and in the skies.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Because they are perceived as offensive threats, power-projection forces are more likely to spark spirals of tension than weapons that can defend only a nation's homeland.' </span><span class="CardChar0">Perhaps even more important in East Asia than these more commonly considered variables are psychological factors (such as the historically based mistrust and animosity among regional actors)</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and political geography issues relating to the Taiwan question, </span><span class="CardChar0">which make even defensive weapons</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in the region </span><span class="CardChar0">appear threatening</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> for Chinese security. </span><span class="CardChar0">One way to ameliorate security dilemmas and prevent spirals of tension is to have an outside arbiter play a policing role, lessening the perceived need for regional actors to begin destabilizing security competitions. For this reason, most scholars</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, regardless of theoretical persuasion, seem to </span><span class="CardChar0">agree with U.S. officials and local leaders that a major factor in containing potential tensions in East Asia is the continuing presence of the U.S. military, particularly in Japan. The historically based mistrust among the actors in Northeast Asia is so intense that not only is the maintenance of a U.S. presence in Japan critical, but the form the U.S.-Japan alliance takes also has potentially important implications for regional stability.</span>


**Most likely scenario for nuclear escalation**
**Nye et al., Professor @ Harvard, 2K**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">[Joseph S. Nye, Professor Emeritus @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]</span>] </span>
Major war in Europe is inconceivable for at least a generation, but the prospects for conflict in Asia are far from remote. The region features some of the world’s largest and most modern armies, nuclear-armed major powers, and several nuclear-capable states. Hostilities that could directly involve the United States in a major conflict could occur at a moment’s notice on the Korean peninsula and in the Taiwan Strait. The Indian subcontinent is a major flashpoint. In each area, war has the potential of nuclear escalation. In addition, lingering turmoil in Indonesia, the world’s fourth-largest nation, threatens stability in Southeast Asia. The United States is tied to the region by a series of bilateral security alliances that remain the region’s de facto security architecture. In this promising but also potentially dangerous setting, the U.S.-Japan bilateral relationship is more important than ever. With the world’s second-largest economy and a well equipped and competent military, and as our democratic ally, Japan remains the keystone of the U.S. involvement in Asia. The U.S.-Japan alliance is central to America’s global security strategy. 


**North Korean nuclearization causes extinction**
**Hayes & Green, Professors @ RMIT U & Victoria U, ’09**
[Peter Hayes, Professor of International Relations @ RMIT University, Director of the Nautilus Institute, Michael Hamel-Green, Dean & Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development @ Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, December 14th 2009, 
<span style="display: block; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Peter-Hayes/3267]]</span>
[Peter Hayes, Professor of International Relations @ RMIT University, Director of the Nautilus Institute, Michael Hamel-Green, Dean & Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development @ Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, December 14th 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Peter-Hayes/3267]]</span>]
<span class="CardChar0">The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, and related political and economic issues, </span><span class="CardChar0">are serious, not only for the Northeast Asian region but for the whole international community. At worst, there is the possibility of nuclear attack</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">1, whether by intention, miscalculation, or merely accident, </span><span class="CardChar0">leading to the resumption of Korean War hostilities. On the Korean Peninsula itself, key population centres are well within short or medium range missiles. The whole of Japan is likely to come within North Korean missile range. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pyongyang has a population of over 2 million, Seoul (close to the North Korean border) 11 million, and Tokyo over 20 million. </span><span class="CardChar0">Even a limited nuclear exchange would result in a holocaust of unprecedented proportions. But the catastrophe within the region would not be the only outcome. New research indicates that even a limited nuclear war in the region would rearrange our global climate far more quickly than global warming.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Westberg draws attention to new studies modelling the effects of even a limited nuclear exchange involving approximately 100 Hiroshima-sized 15 kt bombs2 (by comparison it should be noted that the United States currently deploys warheads in the range 100 to 477 kt, that is, individual warheads equivalent in yield to a range of 6 to 32 Hiroshimas).</span><span class="CardChar0">The studies indicate that the soot from the fires produced would lead to a decrease in global temperature by 1.25 degrees Celsius for a period of 6-8 years.3 In Westberg’s view: That is not global winter, but the nuclear darkness will cause a deeper drop in temperature than at any time during the last 1000 years. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The temperature over the continents would decrease substantially more than the global average. </span><span class="CardChar0">A decrease in rainfall over the continents would also follow…The period of nuclear darkness will cause much greater decrease in grain production than 5% and it will continue for many years...hundreds of millions of people will die from hunger…To make matters even worse, such amounts of smoke injected into the stratosphere would cause a huge reduction in the Earth’s protective ozone.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">4 These, of course, are not the only consequences. </span><span class="CardChar0">Reactors might also be targeted, causing further mayhem and downwind radiation effects, superimposed on a smoking, radiating ruin left by nuclear next-use. Millions of refugees would flee the affected regions. The direct impacts, and the follow-on impacts on the global economy via ecological and food insecurity, could make the present global financial crisis pale by comparison. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">How the great powers, especially the nuclear weapons states respond to such a crisis, and in particular, whether nuclear weapons are used in response to nuclear first-use, could make or break the global non proliferation and disarmament regimes. </span><span class="CardChar0">There could be many unanticipated impacts on regional and global security relationships</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">5, </span><span class="CardChar0">with subsequent nuclear breakout and geopolitical turbulence, including possible loss-of-control over fissile material or warheads in the chaos of nuclear war, and aftermath chain-reaction affects involving other potential proliferant states. The Korean nuclear proliferation issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">North Korea is currently believed to have sufficient plutonium stocks to produce up to 12 nuclear weapons.6 If and when it is successful in implementing a uranium enrichment program - having announced publicly that it is experimenting with enrichment technology on September 4, 20097 in a communication with the UN Security Council - it would likely acquire the capacity to produce over 100 such weapons. </span><span class="CardChar0">Although some may dismiss Korean Peninsula proliferation risks on the assumption that the North Korean regime will implode as a result of its own economic problems, food problems, and treatment of its own populace, there is little to suggest that this is imminent. If this were to happen, there would be the risk of nuclear weapons falling into hands of non-state actors in the disorder and chaos that would ensue. Even without the outbreak of nuclear hostilities on the Korean Peninsula in either the near or longer term, North Korea has every financial incentive under current economic sanctions and the needs of its military command economy to export its nuclear and missile technologies to other states</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Indeed, it has already been doing this for some time. The Proliferation Security Initiative may conceivably prove effective in intercepting ship-borne nuclear exports, but it is by no means clear how air-transported materials could similarly be intercepted</span><span class="CardChar0">. Given the high stakes involved, North Korean proliferation, if unaddressed and unreversed, has the potential to destabilize the whole East Asian region and beyond. </span>

**Strong partnership prevents aggressive Chinese expansionism**
**Konishi & Avery, Congressional Research Service Analysts, ’09**
[Weston S. Konishi, Analyst in Asian Affairs, Adjunct fellow at the Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation, Member of the United States Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests,” Congressional Research Service, July 23rd 2009, 
<span style="display: block; text-decoration: none;">[[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/128832.pdf]]] AP</span>
Although the U.S.-Japan security partnership grew out of a need to contain the Soviet Union and has endured in large part because of North Korea’s threat, many analysts see countering China as the primary driver of the campaign to enhance cooperation today. The U.S. approach to rising China is often characterized by observers as having two prongs that roughly correspond to the “engagement” and “containment” camps. The “engagement” approach includes the “responsible stakeholder” concept outlined most prominently by former Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick, which aims to convince Beijing to contribute peacefully to the international system that has allowed its economic and political rise. The “containment” aspect of U.S. policy seeks to counter a China that could develop in ways inimical to U.S. interests. The U.S.-Japan alliance plays a role in both approaches. In the former, Japan could serve as a model of responsible multilateral engagement as well as a key economic partner for China in the region. In the latter, enhanced joint defense capabilities from neighboring Japan could deter any aggressive behavior by China’s military. U.S. forward deployment in Japan plays a particularly important role in contingency strategies for a conflict with China over Taiwan. 
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">29 </span>

**Aggression causes War over Taiwan**
**Copley News Service, ’05**
[Copley News Service, “Daily Editorials: Bombs and Butter,” July 24th 2005]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;"><span class="CardChar0">As China gains</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> economic </span><span class="CardChar0">clout, its government's brand of touchy, saber-rattling nationalism becomes more worrisome. That touchiness is rooted in the memory of humiliation inflicted by foreigners, from the Western colonial concessions of the 19th century, and</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> it is rooted in the more recent memory of </span><span class="CardChar0">Japanese atrocities during</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the </span><span class="CardChar0">World War II</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> occupation. That wounded pride explains the orchestrated national spleen-venting over Japanese textbooks, the 2001 U.S. spy plane collision and the mistaken U.S. bombing of China's embassy during the Kosovo campaign. </span><span class="CardChar0">It has much to do with China's oft-repeated threats to attack Taiwan, which seem extreme to everyone except the Chinese. As China gains power, that nationalism becomes more worrisome. China's authoritarian government lacks the natural restraint of voters or of dissenters free to challenge government assumptions that can lead to war.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The Pentagon recently reported that </span><span class="CardChar0">China is rapidly building its military with a goal of extending its influence across Asia.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In the future, </span><span class="CardChar0">its leaders "may be tempted to resort to force or coercion more quickly to press diplomatic advantage, advance security interests or resolve disputes</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">," the report concluded. </span><span class="CardChar0">If more muscle combined with nationalist passions tempt Chinese leaders to attack Taiwan, the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and the world would be faced with a crisis more serious than</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> any since at least </span><span class="CardChar0">the</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 1962 </span><span class="CardChar0">Cuban missile crisis</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> with the Soviet Union. The United States would feel compelled to come to Taiwan's aid, </span><span class="CardChar0">resulting in a war between heavily armed countries that possess nuclear arsenals.</span>
</span>

**Nuclear Armageddon**
**Straits Times, 2K**
[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 24th 2000]
<span class="CardChar0">THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. <span class="CardChar0">Conflict on such a scale </span></span><span class="CardChar0">would embroil other countries far and near and -- horror of horrors -- raise the possibility of a nuclear war. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. </span><span class="CardChar0">If China were to retaliate, East Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> by the likes of Iraq. </span><span class="CardChar0">In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, </span><span class="CardChar0">could enter a new and dangerous phase.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -->If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, <span class="CardChar0">there is little hope of winning a war against China 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. <span class="CardChar0">Major-General Pan Zhangqiang</span>, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He <span class="CardChar0">said </span></span><span class="CardChar0">military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilization. There would be no victors in such a war.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> While the prospect of </span><span class="CardChar0">a nuclear Armageddon over Taiwan</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> might seem inconceivable, it </span><span class="CardChar0">cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else. </span></span>
===﻿Solvency=== 
**The U.S. should scale back its Marine Presence in Okinawa by 15,000 troops to the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit—They are the only troops that can be deployed in combat situations**
**O’Hanlon, ’01**
[Michael E. O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy @ The Brookings Institution, “Come Partly Home, America; How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” March/April 2001, Foreign Affairs, Lexis] AP
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">The United States keeps nearly 20,000 marines on Okinawa. These troops are an important part of the 100,000 U.S. military personnel based or deployed in the western Pacific region. In light of ongoing security concerns in the Taiwan Strait and on the Korean Peninsula, the Clinton administration felt it important to establish a floor below which U.S. military strength in the area would not drop. This goal was accomplished by the Pentagon's 1995 Nye report -- designed to articulate post -- Cold War U.S. military strategy for the Asia-Pacific -- which found that maintaining 100,000 service members in the region was an important symbol of sustained U.S. commitment. But six years later, that number needs rethinking.</span></span> <span class="CardChar0">About half of the marines on Okinawa are deployed there for several months. That makes Okinawa by far the largest regular Marine Corps commitment -- in fact, forces there at any given time usually exceed all other worldwide Marine Corps deployments combined.</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Since the preparation and conduct of these missions is at the heart of the corps' raison d'etre, the marines rarely complain about such deployment. In addition, the marines' presence on Okinawa saves U.S. taxpayers money, since Japan foots much of the bill for operations and base needs.</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">But </span></span></span><span class="CardChar0">the advantages of the deployment -- a diplomatic show of U.S. commitment to the Asia-Pacific, the lack of Marine Corps opposition, and its cost-effectiveness -- do not add up to a strategic rationale for keeping the marines there.</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> And the Okinawa mission carries downsides as well that are not commonly recognized.</span></span> <span class="CardChar0">The marines, with their expeditionary philosophy and capabilities, provide too valuable an asset to squander on a deployment that is not militarily or strategically essential.</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> By default, </span></span><span class="CardChar0">putting them on Okinawa effectively consumes operational resources that could be used elsewhere</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">: peace operations in the Balkans (to give the Army a break, for example), a humanitarian intervention or peace operation (should another genocide occur in Africa or elsewhere), exercises with foreign militaries, or responses to crises.</span></span> <span class="CardChar0">In addition, the marines on Okinawa are not so much forward-deployed as they are marooned. Okinawa itself is not at risk, and Japanese forces have the capacity to defend it even if it were. Furthermore, the three amphibious ships based in Japan can transport only the 2,000 marines of the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">, which patrols the region, </span></span><span class="CardChar0">to areas of actual threat elsewhere in the Pacific. The other 15,000 marines on Okinawa could not quickly deploy elsewhere with their equipment. In the event of a war, these troops could be flown to Korea without their heavy weaponry to help in noncombatant evacuations or similar missions. But they would have no advantage over infantry soldiers airlifted from the United States or local South Korean infantry troops. Keeping so many marines on Okinawa also places a major strain on U.S.-Japan relations</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">, as George Washington University Professor Mike Mochizuki has argued and as an increasingly broad swath of the U.S. defense community now recognizes. In terms of acreage, three-quarters of U.S. bases in Japan are on Okinawa, taking up almost 20 percent of the land of an island that is small and, as home to more than a million people, densely populated even by Japanese standards. Changes to the base structure agreed to in the 1990s will reduce the acreage of the U.S. bases on Okinawa by only about a fifth, even if they are carried out in full. (Local resistance to moving the marines' Futenma air base has stymied efforts to enact much of the plan.) Meanwhile, marine flights continue in and out of Futenma -- located right in the middle of Ginowan City -- with the associated risks of accidents. Polls in recent years showed that more than 80 percent of all Japanese consider the Okinawa arrangement undesirable and unfair to local citizens. By trying to hold on to all of its bases in Japan, the United States risks causing a backlash and ultimately losing everything, including those facilities with the greatest military benefit for crises in Korea, the Taiwan Strait, or elsewhere -- notably, the Kadena Air Force base on Okinawa and U.S. Navy and Air Force facilities on Japan's main islands.</span></span> <span class="CardChar0">Washington should therefore scale back the number of marines on Okinawa to about 5,000. The 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit should remain, as should enough forces to maintain storage and staging facilities for use in a crisis. But most other marines should go elsewhere in the region or return home, and most Marine Corps facilities and training ranges should be returned to Japanese use.</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Compensating steps should be taken, notably increased storage of U.S. military supplies on Okinawa or on ships in Japanese ports to facilitate rapid deployments in the region. Tokyo might well pay for the necessary equipment and many of the redeployment costs. Ideally, Japan would also increase its direct military contributions to the alliance. But major reductions in the marines on Okinawa need not await the normalization of Japanese security policy.</span></span>




**Closing Futenma is the test case for a truly equal alliance—Officials in the White House are blinded by the situations’ potential**
**Van Wolferen, Professor @ U Amsterdam, ’10**
[Karel van Wolferen, Professor Emeritus of Comparative Political and Economic Institutions @ The University of Amsterdam, “Japan’s Stumbling Revolution,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, April 12th 2010, 
<span style="display: block; text-decoration: none;">[[http://japanfocus.org/-Karel_van-Wolferen/3341]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Another crucial subject, a potential hindrance on the path to Minshuto’s success, does not receive the close media attention it deserves. </span><span class="CardChar0">The U.S.-Japan relationship was something that practically everyone took for granted. The problem has been that Washington has not treated Japan as a fully independent country. This situation has already been fundamentally changed by the Hatoyama cabinet. Merely by having opened the subject of inequality for discussion means that things can never be the same again. But the Obama administration is apparently not ready</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> for a non-Jiminto government, which was made poignantly clear by the stern messages of Hillary Clinton just before the election and those of Robert Gates soon after it. </span><span class="CardChar0">The matter of moving an American Marine base in Okinawa is apparently being turned into a test case to see whether the new government understands who is boss. Many governments</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, including Washington, </span><span class="CardChar0">have long wished for Japan to take a more active role on the world stage.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Its economic might changed the fate of industries in the United States and Europe, but </span><span class="CardChar0">from a geopolitical point of view, and in diplomacy, it was barely visible. The rest of the world got used to what was early on labeled as an ‘economic giant but political dwarf’. And now, when the new government says that this undesirable imbalance must change, Americans can only whine about military base arrangements different from what they want.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The two cases of the public prosecutor relentlessly pursuing supposed lawbreaking by Ozawa and American insistence on Japan implementing what Washington had earlier forced the Jiminto to agree to in 2006 have something in common. They share the lack of a general sense of proportion. A stranger to Japan, just reading big newspaper headlines between December and February on a visit, would get the impression that Ozawa was trying to evade something like a murder conviction. Any financial misreporting by Ozawa’s assistants, a misdemeanor that in other democracies would be quietly investigated, does not remotely have the weight warranting the pillory of Ozawa we have just witnessed. And considering that the public prosecutor had so little to go on that he was forced to dismiss the case against Ozawa himself, we can only conclude that things have been crazily out of proportion. That such a relatively small thing could be the source of speculation about an end to the first Minshuto cabinet, and be the basis of daily front page reporting of mainly invented public opinion about the need for Ozawa to resign, like the fever chart of a hospital patient, would make strangers unacquainted with Japanese ways wonder about the sanity of political life here. I just read an editorial in one of the major newspapers that makes the point that while no evidence could be found, this does not mean that Ozawa is innocent. It is a statement that indicates a state of hysteria among some editors, giving the impression that it has become a personal vendetta for them. </span><span class="CardChar0">In the Futenma base case we see a new American presidency entirely missing the significance of what is happening in Japan. Obama and his advisers risk undermining new possibilities for creating a stable new cooperative relationship. Over what? Over something that ought to be minuscule in their global strategic vision. We learn from this that the Obama administration does not have its act together with respect to the revamped diplomatic attitude toward the world it announced when taking over from</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> George W. </span><span class="CardChar0">Bush. It also proves that the American military has taken over far more American foreign policy than the details that relate to the countries it occupies. But considering that almost all of the top American officials dealing with Japan are ‘alumni’ of the Pentagon, this lack of a sense of proportion, this tunnel vision, should not surprise us.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> When you can upset something very big with something that in neutral eyes can only be judged to be pretty small you have extraordinary power. We need to contemplate the vagaries of power when we contemplate the story of today’s Japan. It has undergone the biggest power-shift since the 1950s, and Minshutohas already changed some things beyond a point where they can go back to what they were. But that does not mean that its power has been consolidated. Its strength will be tested again and again. An untimely departure of the Hatoyama cabinet would be very unfortunate. With the Jiminto in charge, an annual change of prime minister hardly mattered. But a return to the ‘musical chairs’ method of change would be disastrous for Japan’s political future. The consolidation ofMinshuto power will, of course, require dealing with the problem of the misplaced priorities of the public prosecutor, and of journalists who feed on leaks from the prosecutor's office like mad dogs. When Ozawa first became the target of investigations last spring, which forced him to resign as Minshuto president, foregoing the chance to become prime minister, several Diet members were quoted as saying that if the prosecutor’s office “would apply the same standards to all of us”, the Diet would be as good as empty. To be sure, the public prosecutor theoretically would have had the power in Jiminto days of emptying, say, half the Diet. But you can imagine that this power would not last beyond the first move of such idiotic action, because everyone in Japan, including the newspapers would conclude that the public prosecutor had gone mad. This thought experiment demonstrates an important quality of power: it is not absolute. Power is a rather elusive thing; hard to catch conceptually in a concrete way. It has no substance that relates in any way to the laws of Newtonian physics. You cannot measure it, count it, or express it in numbers. The attempts of some specialists in political science to quantify power fail miserably. Power is in essence different from influence, which can be measured. It derives its nature to a large extent through what it is in the eyes of the recipient, the person or group to which it is directed (and is in this way somewhat comparable to love). Take an example from recent history. You will remember what happened to the power of the Soviet Union just before the end of the Cold War. A huge power system existed, which was believed to be unshakeable. It had defined the nature of our post-World-War-II geopolitics. Then something relatively small triggered events that led to the collapse of the Berlin Wall. In no time in 1989 the great power emanating from Moscow that kept populations in Eastern Europe in thrall was gone. It vanished in less than a week. Why? Because it rested on the psychology of fear. Fear of Soviet tanks. And that disappeared suddenly because Gorbachev demonstrated that he had meant what he said about not using violence to stop developments. What we have just witnessed in Japan, and will probably witness again, is a power struggle. On one side, reformist politicians eager to implement true reform of the structure of the Japanese power system, and on the other venerable career officials who believe that the established order is something sacred. But the power of these career officials will melt like ice and snow when editorial writers and television commentators warm up to the exciting political possibilities that have opened up for Japan. Being human beings interested in public affairs, as well as Japanese with at least a residual sense of patriotism, such a switch of focus ought not be too difficult for them. With the U.S.-Japan relationship we have another very curious power relationship, whose problems could be solved in favor of Japan. The world’s two greatest industrial powers relate to each other in unique fashion; there is nothing comparable to it. Hatoyama’s critics who blame him for mishandling diplomacy vis-à-vis Washington overlook the fact that normal diplomacy is not possible in this case, because the United States does not truly recognize Japanese sovereignty—an indispensable condition for diplomacy. It has been taken as a matter of course that Japan would in the end always do what the United States wanted. The Hatoyama government must deal with unfinished post-World War II business that its Jiminto predecessors have never looked straight in the eye. </span><span class="CardChar0">People speak automatically about the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and Japan as allies. But, again, we have a conceptual problem here. An alliance is a relationship entered into voluntarily by two or more independent states. When this supposed alliance began Japan had no choice in the matter. During the Occupation following World War II, Washington turned Japan into a protectorate, and has since continued to treat to Japan as such—while, more recently, urging Japan to participate in American military ventures in other countries. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Virtual protectorate status has certainly had some great advantages. Japan’s very rapid growth as a trading power was much facilitated by its sheltering in the American strategic and diplomatic shadow. </span><span class="CardChar0">But, most importantly for Japan’s place in the world until recently was that the main things by which a state is recognized internationally were carried out by American proxy. In other words, Japan did not need to present itself to other countries with a strong government, capable of making fundamental political decisions. We only need to think this through to see the connection between Japan’s lack of a political steering wheel until now and its pathological dependence on the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates. I think that the foremost Minshuto politicians, and certainly Ozawa, are aware of the mutual dependence of these two factors. As long as the United States appeared to supply a substitute for genuine large-scale Japanese diplomacy and strategic arrangements, there was no urgent need for a Japanese government capable of supplying those. </span><span class="CardChar0">And as long as no formal government in Tokyo balked at Japan being treated as a protectorate Washington could afford to meet Japanese sensibilities with disdain, as it is doing now with respect to the Marines on Okinawa. It is therefore natural that by establishing a true political center the conditions that have kept this dependency relationship going are radically altered. </span>
**That’s uniquely key—an equal alliance is key to create the perception of a stable alliance**
**Nye et al., 2K**
[Joseph S. Nye, Professor @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, [[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]] AP

Because the stakes are so high in Asia, it is urgent that the United States and Japan develop a common perception and approach regarding their relationship in the 21st century. The potential for conflict in Asia is lowered dramatically by a visible and “real” U.S.-Japan defense relationship
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">. The use of bases granted by Japan allows the U.S. to affect the security environment from the Pacific to the Persian Gulf. The revised Guidelines for U.S.-Japan Defense Cooperation, the basis for joint defense planning, should be regarded as the floor—not the ceiling—for an expanded Japanese role in the transpacific alliance, and the uncertainties of the post-Cold War regional setting require a more dynamic approach to bilateral defense planning. Japan’s prohibition against collective self defense is a constraint on alliance cooperation. Lifting this prohibition would allow for closer and more efficient security cooperation. This is a decision that only the Japanese people can make. The United States has respected the domestic decisions that form the character of Japanese security policies and should continue to do so. But Washington must make clear that it welcomes a Japan that is willing to make a greater contribution and to become a more equal alliance partner. We see the special relationship between the United States and Great Britain as a model. </span>


**Only closing Futenma can reorient the Alliance to deal with pressing security matters**
**O’Hanlon, Senior Fellow @ Brookings, ’10**
[Michael E. O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy @ The Brookings Institution, “Window on Washington / Putting 1 Okinawa air base in perspective,” February 3rd 2010, 
<span style="display: block; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/columns/commentary/20100203dy01.htm]]</span>
] AP
For 15 years, the two largest economies on Earth and two of the world's top military powers have spent much of their alliance management time discussing the fate of one airfield, the U.S. Marine Corps' Futenma Air Station on the island of Okinawa. This is a poor preoccupation for the allies given the other, huge issues that confront the two countries--dealing with nuclear North Korea, the rise of China, the global problem of Islamic extremism, wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and many other matters such as recovery from the global recession and mitigation of the global warming threat. It is time to move beyond it. Various efforts have been made to propose ways to relocate the base in the past. Of course as we all know, it was to go to another part of the main Okinawa Island, given the current facility's location in the heart of Ginowan City and the associated problems of noise, risk of accident, and interference with local economic development strategies. The arrival of Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama in office, just as a deal finally seemed to be coming together, and now a mayoral election on Okinawa in the jurisdiction that was to host the new base have thrown the latest monkey wrench into the mix. Hatoyama's reluctance pits him against not only the Liberal Democratic Party, but the Japanese bureaucrats who would implement the deal, and the United States--which has said its entire willingness to relocate half of its marines from Okinawa to Guam is contingent on Hatoyama accepting what other parties saw as a done deal. There are arguments on all sides of this issue. Supporters of the proposal to relocate the base on the island note that it is militarily important, economically helpful to Okinawa, which lacks a strong alternative economy, and diplomatically sound as a reasonable and long-sought compromise to the interests of the United States, Japan in general, and Okinawans in particular. But Hatoyama points to the fact that tiny Okinawa continues to host more than half of all U.S. military forces based in Japan, and that its people have been continually conflicted about this sometimes burdensome presence for decades. Some Okinawans worry about the environmental effects of the proposed new airfield site on local sea life; others seek to minimize their island's future economic dependence on the American military. Along with George Washington University professor and Japan expert Mike Mochizuki, I have long argued that the Kadena Air Force Base on Okinawa is much more militarily important than Futenma, given its likely role in possible conflicts in Korea, the Taiwan Strait or elsewhere as well as its role as a hub in the American global military base network. Preserving local political support for Kadena is therefore much more impotant than holding onto Futenma or its successor. Our analyses suggest that a modest number of helicopter and fixed-wing flights can be handled at Kadena, moreover, for day-to-day marine operations. Just as we make pragmatic decisions in other parts of the world, including the broader Middle East and Korea, about when to relocate our forces for the greater good of an alliance, we can factor local sensitivities into this issue as well. Moreover, delays in making a decision on relocation, while frustrating for those working on the problem, do not prevent the United States from ongoing use of Futenma as well as other facilities on Okinawa in the meantime. Provided that the United States could improve its contingency access to other airfields on Okinawa for use in a possible crisis or war, the United States could make do without Futenma or a substitute. However it makes no sense to keep more than 15,000 marines on Okinawa without a dedicated airfield, so in this event, Japan should follow through on its commitment to help finance a major move of many marines from Okinawa to Guam, including an alternative airfield there. Japan only has to spend 1 percent of its gross domestic product on its military, whereas the United States spends 4 to 5 percent and bears a far higher burden in terms of actual combat operations, in an alliance that suits both their purposes but offers Japan the better bargain at the moment on balance. Using commercial or Japanese military airfields in a crisis or war is allowed under the 1996 and 1997 agreements between Tokyo and Washington governing base use in Japan; prestationing of some supplies and engineering equipment on these other airfields could go a long ways toward mitigating the downsides of any loss of a permanent air station. As such, Prime Minister Hatoyama is right not to feel streamrolled by the arguments of defense professionals and establishment figures that Futenma or its successor are militarily crucial to the future of the alliance. However, Hatoyama has another challenge--to avoid using the Okinawa issue as a way to show his distance from LDP governments and prove his mettle as a reformer. One must not exaggerate the inconvenience or insult to Okinawans from the existing plan for relocating the airfield, which as noted reflects 15 years of negotiations that attempted to factor Okinawan interests into the proposed solution. And at a time when many Western nations led by the United States--but notably not including Japan--are asking their soldiers to risk their lives on global military operations, it is important not to exaggerate the degree to which the Okinawans are being asked to sacrifice disproportionately. So what it comes down to is this: Prime Minister Hatoyama, as the sovereign leader of a sovereign state, has every right to rethink previous commitments of his country, just as he already has in replacing Japan's Indian Ocean resupply operations for U.S. Navy ships there with a larger aid package for Afghanistan. But that latter policy suggests the way forward here, too: if Hatoyama is to walk away unilaterally from a deal that others in Japan and the United States have worked hard to create, he needs to do something real, and big, and historic instead. Perhaps it would be best if Japan did a little less to please Americans on the issue of bases and host nation military support--provided that it do more in another way. Providing substantial numbers of Japanese peacekeeping troops for Sudan and Congo, as part of the ongoing U.N. missions in those places, comes to mind as a good example of possible contributions consistent with Japanese political sensibilities and with the proper role of a great power on the world stage. Moving toward a true alliance in this way could do much to not only ease the pain over an Okinawa base disagreement, but transcend it as well, and get what Ambassador Mike Mansfield called "the world's most important bilateral relationship" two decades ago. If Mansfield's words are to remain true, or even partly true, today, we need to lift our sights above bickering over bases and put strategy and the world's real problems back at the center of our alliance. 


**The dispute over Futenma is the key obstacle to a durable alliance—removing the base is key to make the alliance politically sustainable**
**Konishi & Avery, Congressional Research Service Analysts, ’09**
[Weston S. Konishi, Analyst in Asian Affairs, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, Adjunct fellow at the Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation, Member of the United States Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests,” Congressional Research Service, July 23rd 2009, 
<span style="display: block; text-decoration: none;">[[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/128832.pdf]]] AP</span>
<span class="CardChar0">The reduction of Marines from about 18,000 to 11,000 on Okinawa seeks to quell the political controversy that has surrounded the presence of U.S. forces in the southernmost part of Japan for years. Public outcry against the bases has continued since the</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 1995 </span><span class="CardChar0">rape of a Japanese schoolgirl by</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> an </span><span class="CardChar0">American serviceman, and was renewed after a U.S. military helicopter crashed into a crowed university campus in 2004.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Though constituting less than 1% of Japan’s land mass, Okinawa currently hosts 65% of the total U.S. forces in Japan. Okinawan politicians, along with the opposition Democratic Party of Japan, have called for a renegotiation of the Japan-U.S. Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) and a reduction in U.S. troop strength. The U.S. and central Japanese governments have opposed revising the SOFA, but </span><span class="CardChar0">Japan has increasingly pushed the U.S. to alleviate the burden of its military presence in Okinawa.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">9 </span><span class="CardChar0">The DPRI review identified friction between the U.S. forces stationed in Okinawa and the local population as a key obstacle to a durable alliance. In addition to the 1995 rape conviction, complaints about noise pollution from the air bases and concern about safety issues after the crash of a helicopter in August 2004 convinced alliance managers that the burden on Okinawa’s urban areas needed to be reduced in order to make the alliance more politically sustainable. As part of the realignment of U.S. bases, U.S. officials agreed to move most aircraft and crews constituting the Marine Air Station at Futenma</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (a highly populated area) </span><span class="CardChar0">to expanded facilities at Camp Schwab, located in a less-congested area of Okinawa. The challenge of replacing Futenma had dogged alliance managers for years</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">: since 1996, both sides had worked to implement the Special Action Committee on Okinawa (SACO) Report, which called for the return of 12,000 acres of land to the Japanese, provided that appropriate replacement facilities were arranged. </span><span class="CardChar0">In addition to the Futenma agreement, the United States agreed to relocate the Okinawa-based III Marine Expeditionary Force</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (III MEF), which includes 8,000 U.S. personnel and their dependents, </span><span class="CardChar0">to new facilities in Guam.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In return, Tokyo promised to pay $6.09 billion of the $10.27 billion estimated costs associated with the move. </span><span class="CardChar0">With the DPRI review and the revitalized alliance, new momentum led to a tentative agreement in 2006. However, implementation of the agreement has been slow and reflects the long-standing struggle between the Okinawan and central Tokyo governments. Public opposition and cost overruns threaten to further stall the Futenma relocation plan.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Nevertheless, some progress has been made in the Guam relocation initiative. In February 2009, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Japanese Foreign Minister Hirofumi Nakasone signed a new agreement on implementing the Guam relocation plans by 2014. </span>


**Closing Futenma key to transform the alliance and address security challenges in the region**
**Klingner, ’09**
[Bruce Klingner, Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia @ The Heritage Foundation’s Asian Studies Center, Former Chief of CIA’s Korea Branch, “U.S. Should Stay Firm on Implementation of Okinawa Force Realignment,” December 16th 2009, 
<span style="display: block; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2009/12/US-Should-Stay-Firm-on-Implementation-of-Okinawa-Force-Realignment#_ftn1]]] AP</span><span style="display: block; text-decoration: none;"> </span>
The Futenma controversy has caused the Obama and Hatoyama administrations' relationship to get off on the wrong foot. Frustration, suspicion, and anger are increasing in both capitals, threatening to create a crisis of confidence. The FRF controversy has
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">, in the words of one U.S. official, "sucked the air out of the room" by redirecting alliance attention away from strategically important regional and global security issues. The Futenma dispute has already harmed the bilateral alliance. The extent of the damage will depend on the responses of both countries. The alliance is not yet in crisis, but if the situation is mishandled, the alliance could be headed for one.</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">The U.S. and Japan need to keep in mind that the alliance is critically important for both countries and that the contentious issues are only one part of the broader relationship. Washington and Tokyo need to work together to reduce the current tension level and to refocus on transforming the alliance to address security challenges. </span>

**The U.S. should start refashioning the alliance by closing Futenma. Allows for Japan to maintain regional stability—The Marines are not needed.**
**Bandow, ’10**
[Doug Bandow, Senior Fellow @ The Cato Institute, Former Special Assistant to Ronald Reagan, “Japan Can Defend Itself,” May 12th 2010, 
<span style="display: block; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11804]]</span><span style="display: block; text-decoration: none;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thus the U.S. reliance on Okinawa. Lieutenant General Keith Stalder, the Marine Corps Pacific commander, said the island deployment is "the perfect model" for the alliance's objectives of "deterring, defending and defeating potential adversaries." </span><span class="CardChar0">For years the most obvious target of the American forces was North Korea, with the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(MEF) </span><span class="CardChar0">expected to reinforce the Republic of Korea in the event of war. Yet the ROK is both financially and manpower rich. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">More recently some Americans have talked about deploying the MEF to seize Pyongyang's nuclear weapons in the event of a North Korean collapse. Alas, so far the North has proved to be surprisingly resilient, so the Marines might wait a long time to undertake this mission. </span><span class="CardChar0">Checking China is next on the potential Okinawa mission list. However, no one expects the United States to launch a ground invasion of the People's Republic of China irrespective of the future course of events. Thus, the MEF wouldn't be very useful in any conflict. In any case, a stronger Japanese military </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">— which already possesses potent capabilities — </span><span class="CardChar0">would be a far better mechanism for encouraging responsible Chinese development. There's also the kitchen sink argument: the Marines are to maintain regional "stability." Pentagon officials draw expanding circles around Okinawa to illustrate potential areas of operation. The mind boggles, however. Should U.S. troops be sent to resolve</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, say, the long-running Burmese guerrilla war in that nation's east, a flare-up of secessionist sentiment in Indonesia, violent opposition to Fiji's military dictator, or </span><span class="CardChar0">border skirmishes </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">between Cambodia and Thailand? </span><span class="CardChar0">It’s hard to imagine any reason for Washington to jump into any local conflict. America's presumption should be noninvolvement rather than intervention in other nations' wars. Making fewer promises to intervene would allow the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">to reduce the number of military personnel and overseas bases. A good place to start in cutting international installations would be Okinawa. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">America's post-Cold War dominance is coming to an end. Michael Schuman argued in Time: "Anyone who thinks the balance of power in Asia is not changing — and with it, the strength of the U.S., even among its old allies — hasn't been there lately." </span><span class="CardChar0">Many analysts nevertheless want the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">to attempt to maintain its unnatural dominance. Rather than accommodate a more powerful China, they want America to contain a wealthier and more influential Beijing. Rather than expect its allies to defend themselves and promote regional stability, they want Washington to keep its friends dependent. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">To coin a phrase, it's time for a change. </span><span class="CardChar0">U.S. intransigence over Okinawa has badly roiled the bilateral relationship. But even a more flexible basing policy would not be enough. Washington is risking the lives and wasting the money of the American people to defend other populous and prosperous states. Washington should close Futenma — as a start to refashioning the alliance with Japan. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rather than a unilateral promise by the United States to defend Japan, the relationship should become one of equals working together on issues of mutual interest. </span><span class="CardChar0">Responsibility for protecting Japan should become that of Japan. </span>
</span>



**Restructuring the Alliance key to assertive Japanese foreign policy and regional stability—Europe proves.**
**Ikenberry & Kupchan, ’10**
[G. John Ikenberry, Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton, Charles A. Kupchan, Professor of International Affairs @ Georgetown, Senior Fellow @ The Council on Foreign Relations, “A New Japan, a New Asia,” January 21st 2010, 
<span style="display: block; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/21256/new_japan_a_new_asia.html]]] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This week marks the 50th anniversary of the U.S.-Japan alliance, but the Obama administration seems sincerely flummoxed as to whether to bemoan or commemorate the occasion. On the one hand, </span><span class="CardChar0">U.S. officials have reacted with </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">considerable </span><span class="CardChar0">discomfort to the more independent </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">and assertive </span><span class="CardChar0">policies of the new Japanese government. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Secretary of Defense Robert </span><span class="CardChar0">Gates called Tokyo's desire to reopen debate about the location of U.S. bases in Okinawa "counterproductive" </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">and the alternatives to current plans "politically untenable and operationally unworkable." On the other hand, President </span><span class="CardChar0">Obama observed during his visit to Tokyo </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in November that </span><span class="CardChar0">the U.S.-Japan relationship must be one of "equals" and "not a senior-vs-junior partnership." And </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Deputy Secretary of State James </span><span class="CardChar0">Steinberg </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">last week </span><span class="CardChar0">welcomed the </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">"expression of Japan's vibrant democracy" and the </span><span class="CardChar0">opportunity to "conduct an open dialogue on shaping the future of the alliance." As the Obama administration struggles to sort out its Japan policy, it should tilt decidedly toward welcoming rather than rebuffing the fresh approach of the government of </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Prime Minister Yukio </span><span class="CardChar0">Hatoyama. While a cold response to his more assertive foreign policy is predictable</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">--Tokyo since World War II has consistently deferred to its U.S. protector--</span><span class="CardChar0">it is sorely misguided. In questioning the location of the Okinawa bases and seeking a relationship with China not entirely mediated by Washington, the new government is not attempting to demote Japan's alliance with the United States. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">On the contrary, </span><span class="CardChar0">it is seeking to update the alliance to the new political and strategic environment in the region. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rather than warning Tokyo to return to the fold, </span><span class="CardChar0">Washington should work with the Hatoyama government to forge a healthier and more mature relationship. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The election last year of the Democratic Party represents a watershed in Japanese politics, bringing to an end the post-war reign of the Liberal Democratic Party. In breaking the lock that the L.D.P. had on Japanese politics, the D.P.J. has cleared the way for pressures long pent up to rise to the surface. </span><span class="CardChar0">Many voters long for Japan to become a "normal" country - one that assumes more geopolitical responsibility and conducts a foreign policy made in Tokyo</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, not Washington. </span><span class="CardChar0">Mr. Hatoyama has pledged to address citizens' concerns about the social ills that U.S. bases have brought to their communities. And he has vowed to cut back the power of entrenched bureaucrats, who for decades preserved the status quo on foreign policy. Among older Japanese, for whom the U.S.-Japan alliance enjoyed a sacred status, this status quo was more than acceptable. But younger Japanese have begun to ask tough questions</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - to which Mr. Hatoyama is seeking answers. </span><span class="CardChar0">Tokyo's search for a more autonomous foreign policy is also a reflection of a changing strategic environment. China's rise is reshaping the region. It has become Japan's largest export market. Beijing has discovered the merits of regional engagement, opening the door to a new level of dialogue with Japan. Meanwhile, North Korea's nuclear program has provided a new urgency to regional dialogue, encouraging Japan to step out from behind the shadow of U.S. power. Japan is in many respects beginning to travel down the road taken by Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. With the end of the Cold War, the European Union both quickened its pace of regional integration and yearned for more autonomy from Washington. Germany and France even led the charge against the Iraq war </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in 2003, </span><span class="CardChar0">and the trans-Atlantic alliance emerged the stronger for it. Europe no longer grumbles about the excesses of U.S. power. And the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">enjoys the benefits of a more independent and capable Europe that is shouldering a heavy burden in Afghanistan, leading the effort to curb climate change, and helping to stabilize the global economy. Japan needs to similarly update its alliance with the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates, getting a measure of distance from Washington, but </span><span class="CardChar0">ultimately making the partnership stronger and more mature. Japan has the potential to be a regional leader on peacekeeping, foreign aid and clean energy technology. As Japan deepens its bilateral relationship with China, the two countries may finally have the opportunity to replicate the kind of rapprochement achieved by France and Germany after World War II. In the same way that Europeans built a self-sustaining regional peace, Japan should capitalize on the stability afforded by its alliance with the U.S. to make a push for Sino-Japanese reconciliation and regional integration. A more assertive and independent Japan promises to do much more for East Asia and the United States than a Japan that defers to Washington. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">It is past time for Washington and Tokyo to bring the alliance into the 21st century. </span>


**Assertive Japanese foreign policy key to sustainable multilateral peace in Asia**
**Sukma, ’10**
[Rizal Sukma, Executive Director @ The Centre for Strategic & International Studies, Ph.D. in International Relations from The London School of Economics & Politial Science, “East Asia need a strong Japan,” July 14th 2010, 
<span style="display: block; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2010/06/14/east-asia-needs-a-strong-japan.html]]</span>
] AP
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">A change of head of government in Japan no longer surprises anyone. Two weeks ago, Yukio Hatoyama resigned as prime minister and was replaced by former finance minister Naoto Kan. Indeed, over the last four years, Japan has had several prime ministers. The victory of Japan’s Democratic Party (DPJ), which brought an end to the domination of Japanese politics by the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), failed to ensure the stability of government in Japan. Protracted uncertainties in Japanese politics have further undermined the country’s efforts to regain its status as a significant player in East Asia. As the region is being transformed by the rise of China and the arrival of India as two new major powers, Japan has struggled to prove its relevance in the regional strategic equation.It is true that Japan remains an important economic power in the region and beyond. Yet, East Asia has now become a region shaped by countries with both economic and strategic significance. Even as an economic power, Japan is being challenged by China as the second largest economy in the world, and the prospect for Japan to revitalize its economy remains uncertain. In fact, Prime Minister Kan even warned that Japan could face a similar fate as Greece if it did not resolve its mounting national debt, which has reached 218.6 percent of its gross domestic product in 2009. Aware of the danger, as a new leader, Prime Minister Kan has promised to restore Japan’s economic vitality and aimed for more than 2 percent of annual growth by 2020. The challenge for Japan in achieving that target is enormous. In addition to economic problems, the dynamic of Japan’s internal politics often renders it difficult for any government to push for necessary reforms. For example, it is not immediately clear how long Prime Minister Kan would survive. One cannot be sure whether the DPJ would be able to maintain its grip on power in the next election. Despite all the difficulties, we hope Japan would be able to withstand the challenges. As international relations in East Asia enter its most crucial juncture, the role of Japan as a major regional power is very much needed. It is for the first time in Asia’s history that regional politics would be characterized by more than two powerful players. China will undoubtedly soon emerge as the most powerful country, second only to the US. India too will become a power that would shape the future of East Asia. As a result, a new emerging regional order is in the making. Southeast Asian countries, having good relationships with all four major powers, expect that the ongoing power shift in East Asia will continue to be peaceful and to the benefits of all regional nations , small and big. I, for one, believe that some sort of multi-polar structure in East Asia would ensure that the region continues to enjoy the stability it has experienced over the last five decades. In that context, a strong Japan would greatly contribute to the preservation of peace, stability and prosperity in the region. A strong Japan would be beneficial for the fulfillment of the ideal of an East Asian community. The role that Japan has played in Southeast Asia — an important component of East Asia’s stability and security — has helped the region flourish economically, which in turn contributes to peace and stability in the region.Southeast Asian states wish to see Japan, under the new administration led by Prime Minister Kan, to succeed. Southeast Asian states, and also East Asia as a whole, needs a strong partnership with Japan to ensure that the 21st century is indeed an Asian century.Indonesia is no exception. Our relationship with Japan will continue to occupy an important place in our foreign policy. Japan is the largest trading partner and investor in Indonesia. Japan has been playing an important role in our economic development and is a fellow democracy with whom we share many values and norms. </span>