= = 
[[toc]]
=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Affirmative</span>= 

=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">PLAN</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should phase its military presence out of South Korea.</span>



=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> 1AC North Korea</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">North Korea didn’t back off – future provocations and attacks remain credible</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Feigenbaum 12/21**—Adjunct Senior Fellow for East, Central, and South Asia at the Council on Foreign Relations, PhD in Chinese politics (Evan A, 21 December 2010, “North Korea “Backs Off”?”, http://blogs.cfr.org/asia/2010/12/21/north-korea-%E2%80%9Cbacks-off%E2%80%9D/) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">So, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/22/world/asia/22korea.html?_r=1&ref=world|the New York Times ]]... “gone soft.” </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">North Korea doesn’t take U.S. deterrence seriously anymore</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Fenenko 12/**8—leading research fellow at the Russian Academy of Sciences' Institute of International Security, PhD (Alexei, 8 December 2010, “North Korea no longer takes the U.S. security guarantees seriously”, http://en.rian.ru/valdai_op/20101208/161686288.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The current crisis reveals ... two theaters of conflict: Iraq and Afghanistan.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">More provocations will go nuclear—we’re on the brink of massive South Korean retaliation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Guardian 12/23 (</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">23 December 2010, Jonathan Watts, “North Korea threatens nuclear 'holy war' with South”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/dec/23/north-korea-holy-war-warning, RBatra) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Tensions on the Korean ... escalated display of self-defence. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">U.S. deterrence fails and only provokes the North. The root cause of all prior attacks as well as North Korean prolif is U.S. hostile policy. Only troop withdrawal prevents war with North Korea and China. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Beal 12/13**—PhD in China's terms of trade, MA with Honors in modern Chinese studies (Tim, 13 December 2010, “A Second Korean War would become a Sino-American War”, http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1012/S00127/a-second-korean-war-would-become-a-sino-american­war.htm) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The US-ROK joint military exercises not ...a certain degree of influence in Pyongyang. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Only troop withdrawal can overcome Chinese concerns </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Carpenter 10**—vice president for defense and foreign-policy studies at the Cato Institute, PhD in history (Ted Galen, 3 August 2010, China Spats, http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/china-spats-3778, RBatra) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Beijing's failure to... nothing at all in return.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">US engagement with North Korea is doomed to fail – only China can induce reform in the North Korea regime and solve nuclearization</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Bandow, 09** – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (7/1, Doug, Cato Institute, “The China Card,” http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10325, KL)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">North Korea appears ...the Obama administration to play the China card.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The plan solves regional prolif without undermining the nuclear umbrella </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bandow 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">– senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (4/18/10, Doug, “Let the Koreans Take Care of the Koreas,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/let-the-koreans-take­care_b_542141.html, JMP) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">What value, then, is the alliance... economic tools on Pyongyang. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Korea war goes global and nuclear </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**STRATFOR 10** (5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula, JMP)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">So the real issue is the potential ... situation escalates much further.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Failure to de-nuclearize North Korea guarantees global proliferation and nuclear strikes that kill millions**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10** – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)**</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The international community is increasingly ... end of American nuclear hegemony.”8</span>**


**Guarantees nuclear war**
**Cimbala 10 - Prof. of Political Science @ Penn State, (Stephen, Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century, p. 117-8)**

**Failure to contain... triggering a mistaken preemption.**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">De-nuclearizing North Korea sets a vital precedent to eventually solving global peace— unilateral shows of force fail</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ivashentsov 10</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ambassador of Russia to Korea (Gleb, International Affairs, No. 5, October 2010, page(s): 128-139, “The Korean Issue and Security in Northeast Asia”, https://dlib.eastview.com/browse/doc/22820970, RBatra)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">Progress on the Korean...</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> as a prosperous neighbor and a friendly partner. </span>

=1AC China= 

<span style="line-height: 12.55pt; margin-bottom: 12.6pt;">**Strategic reassurance to China is failing now—more effective concessions are needed to spur co-operation on multiple vital interests** </span>
<span style="line-height: 12.55pt; margin-bottom: 12.6pt;">**Lee 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—the moving force behind the Asian affairs website China Matters which provides continuing critical updates on China and Asia-Pacific policies, publishes frequently in Asia Times, has spent thirty years observing, analyzing, and writing on Asian affairs (Peter, 19 July 2010, "The New Face of U.S.-China Relations: <span style="color: black;">'Strategic Reassurance' or Old-Fashioned Rollback?", The Asia-Pacific Journal, http://www.japanfocus.org/­Peter-Lee/3385, RBatra) </span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Obama administration took office ...</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> political, military or economic. </span>


<span style="line-height: 12.55pt; margin-bottom: 12.6pt;">**Disputes over North Korea mean there’s no chance of a cooperative relationship with China—a new U.S. military posture is necessary**</span>
<span style="line-height: 12.55pt; margin-bottom: 12.6pt;">**Sanger 11/6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">— Chief Washington Correspondent for The New York Times, appointed adjunct professor of public policy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard AND Michael Wines, the China bureau chief for The New York Times, M.S. degree (David E., 6 December 2010, “North Korea Is Sign of Chilled U.S.-China <span style="color: black;">Relations”, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/07/world/asia/07china.html?ref=northkorea, RBatra) </span></span></span>

<span style="line-height: 12.65pt; margin-right: .25in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">But in Beijing, ...</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">off China’s borders.</span>__</span>


<span style="line-height: 12.55pt; margin-bottom: 12.6pt;">**Troop withdrawal prevents a cycle of mistrust between China and the U.S.—that solves Asian peace** </span>
<span style="line-height: 12.55pt; margin-bottom: 12.6pt;">**Zhu 12/13**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur chair in East Asian politics and an associate professor of political science and international relations at Bucknell University (Zhiqun, 13 December 2010, “North Korea <span style="color: black;">tests US-China relations,” http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2010/12/137_77935.html, </span>RBatra) </span></span>

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; line-height: 12.55pt; margin-bottom: 12.6pt;">Beijing is deeply concerned ... long-lasting peace in Asia.</span>


<span style="line-height: 12.55pt; margin-bottom: 12.6pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 26.5pt; margin-top: 0in;">**Concessions on sphere influence are critical relations** </span>
<span style="line-height: 16px;">**Carpenter 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato, Ph.D. in U.S. diplomatic history from the University of Texas (Ted Galen, 19 October 2010, “Resets and Spheres of Influence”, </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-skeptics/resets-spheres-influence-4266, RBatra)</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 12.55pt; margin-bottom: 12.6pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The Obama administration has explicitly ...</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;"> China confirm that point.</span>__</span>


<span style="line-height: 12.55pt; margin-bottom: 12.6pt;">**Cooperation on the Korean peninsula is key to __overall__ Chinese relations** </span>
**Bandow 9 (Spring, Doug, “A New Approach to Counter Nuclear Proliferation on the Korean Peninsula,” International Journal of Korean Studies, p55-83,http://www.icks.org/publication/pdf/2009-SPRING­SUMMER/4.pdf, DA 9/1, MaT)**

But American engagement may not be enough... nuclear proliferation in Northeast Asia.


<span style="line-height: 12.55pt; margin-bottom: 12.6pt;">**China relations are key to solve multiple scenarios for planetary destruction** </span>
<span style="line-height: 12.55pt; margin-bottom: 12.6pt;">**Cohen 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William S. Cohen is chairman and CEO of The Cohen Group, a strategic business consulting firm based in Washington, D.C. Secretary Cohen served as U.S. secretary of defense, Maurice R. Greenberg is chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. Mr. Greenberg retired four years ago as chairman and CEO of American International Group (AIG) after more than 40 years of leadership, creating the largest insurance company in history, “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,” pg online @ <span style="color: black;">http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf //ef)// </span> </span></span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The evolution of Sino-U.S. relations over the next months, ... </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">U.S.-China partnership**,** </span>__**__though not inevitable__**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, is indispensable</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//


//**Left unchecked, warming will cause extinction**//
//**Sify 2010** – Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html, WEA)//

//The findings of the comprehensive report...warned, according to a GCI release.//


//<span style="line-height: normal;">**The plan stops the worst form of Chinese containment** </span>//
//**Lee 10—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the moving force behind the Asian affairs website China Matters which provides continuing critical updates on China and Asia-Pacific policies, publishes frequently in Asia Times, has spent thirty years observing, analyzing, and writing on Asian affairs, quoting Chosun Ilbo, an influential Korean newspaper (Peter, 9 July 2010, “It's Official: America Has a China-Containment Policy”,http://chinamatters.blogspot.com/2010/07/its-official-america-has-china.html) </span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S.-South Korea alliance forms ... use Washington as a counterweight to Beijing. </span>//


//<span style="line-height: 12.55pt; margin-bottom: 12.6pt;">**Containment causes a self-fulfilling prophecy that guarantees war throughout Asia** </span>//
//<span style="line-height: 12.55pt; margin-bottom: 12.6pt;">**Klare 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, 2006 [Michael, “Containing <span style="color: black;">China: The US's real objective”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html] </span></span></span>//

//__Accompanying__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">all </span>__these__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">diplomatic </span>__initiatives...__ __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">There can be no victors</span> from such a conflagration.__//


**Any// US-China conflict will go nuclear**
**<span class="cite">Kolko, 06</span>**(Gabriel, Historian of modern warfare, “The Age of War: The United States Confronts the World”, pg. 102)

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">It is neither possible...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> consummate folly.</span>__ </span>


**Taiwain conflict causes the apocalypse.**
**Hsiung 2001** – prof. of politics and intl. law at NYU (James “21st Century World Order And The Asia Pacific”, p. 359-60)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">But decision-makers cannot<span style="letter-spacing: 2.6pt;"> ...</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">__or in the conflict’s wake.__ </span>


=2ac econ add-on= 
**Military presence enrages China and causes them to sell U.S. treasury bonds—kills US economy**
CSmoniter.com 11/24/2010 (The Christian Science Moniter, “Obama uses gunboat diplomacy with North Korea -- and China,” http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/the-monitors-view/2010/1124/Obama-uses-gunboat-diplomacy-with-North-Korea-and-China, KL)


__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">President Obama made a clever strategic move ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ruin what could be a productive partnership. </span>


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Bigger i/l to econ</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;"> **<span style="color: black;">Williams 4</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (1/23/04, Ian, Asia Times, “China-US: Double bubbles in danger of colliding,”http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/FA23Dj01.html, JMP) American companies may have forgotten ...</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black;"> Chinese could manage at the moment.</span>__ </span>





<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Spills over globally</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;"> **<span style="color: black;">Wharton 9</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (9/2/09, Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, “Is the World Losing Faith in the U.S. Dollar?”http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2332, JMP) Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul A. Samuelson,...</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black;"> investments when converted to dollars.</span>__ </span>





=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Negative</span>= 


==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Congress CP 1NC</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: The Congress of the United States should cut off all funds for <the plan></span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Congress exclusively has the power to cut off funds—military strategy and troop movements are exclusively the power of the President. This proves that the CP would sever out of the plan action of withdrawal.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> **Feldman, 07** Noah, Harvard Law Professor, 2/4/2007, "THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-04-07; Whose War Powers?," http://select.nytimes.com/gst/abstract.html?res=F50912FD3F5B0C778CDDAB0894DF404482, access 9/9/10</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The president, as usual, is having none of it... it should stick to oversight and not try to dictate tactics.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Now is the key time for Congress to assert itself by cutting off funds—it will set a precedent that will reign in future Presidential abuses.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Schenwar, 09** (Mary, Executive Director of truthout, Congress Aims to Take Back Constitutional War Powers Wednesday 14 January 2009 http://www.truth-out.org/011409J) </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> As America anticipates the official arrival .... Delahunt stated upon introducing the legislation.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Unfettered executive power puts too much power in the hands of one person. Empirically, this creates massive foreign policy crises and risks nuclear conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> **Adler, 96** (David, professor of political science at Idaho State, The Constitution and Conduct of American Foreign Policy, p. 23-25)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The structure of shared powers in foreign relations...those of the American people and their representatives in Congress.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> ﻿</span>
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Russia Sphere of Influence DA 1NC</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Russia is not looking to expand its influence now </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Matthews and Nemtsova 7/5** (7/5/10 Owen, studies modern history at Oxford, Anna, “Finding a Friendly Face in Russia” http://proquest.umi.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqdweb?index=0&did=2064617061&SrchMode=1&sid=1&Fmt=3&VInst=PROD&VType=PQD&RQT=309&VName=PQD&TS=1277748512&clientId=17822)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">What has come over Vladimir Putin? ... strengthening Moscow's leadership of a Central Asian security bloc that spans the region.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">U.S. Withdrawal from Afghanistan causes Russia expansionism, kills U.S.-Russian Relations, undermines U.S. Hegemony, and increases terrorism </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Hahn, 9** Gordon M Hahn 5/21/2009 senior researcher, Monterey Terrorism Research and Education Program, and visiting assistant professor, Graduate School of International Policy Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, California; senior researcher, Center for Terrorism and Intelligence Studies (CETIS), Akribis Group, California; and analyst/consultant. “U.s. Russian relations and the war against jihadism" http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf p. 8-9 ZM</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">However, there is some space between... can only benefit the region’s jihadists.6</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Russian expansionism triggers multiple scenarios for extinction </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Blank, 09** - Stephen J. Blank, strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago, March 2009. “</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">RUSSIA AND ARMS CONTROL: ARE THERE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?”</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Proliferators or nuclear states like China and Russia... on their neighbors or their own people.172 </span>