[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
International law ac

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas Donaldson.[ Thomas Donaldson is the Mark O. Winkelman Professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He has written broadly in the area of business ethics, values, and leadership. His books include: //Ties that Bind: A Social Contract Approach to Business Ethics// (Harvard University Business School Press, 1999), with T. Dunfee;//Ethical Issues in Business//, 8th Edition (Prentice-Hall Inc., 2007), with P. Werhane; and //Ethics in International Business// (Oxford University Press, 1989). His book, //Ties that Bind//, was the winner of the 2005 SIM Academy of Management Best Book Award. ] International Deontlogy defended: A response ot Russell Hardin. Published in Ethics and International Affairs 1995. Vol. 9.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> States are moral agents</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas Donaldson</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">hardin first rejects the... they are inescapable</span>


Moral Constructivism:
A Phenomenological Argument1 Carla Bagnoli

defines what it means to make an ethical judgment
Bagnoli 1
Moral phenomenology suggests... they are inescapable.

Explains how we form ethical judgments through deliberation
Bagnoli 2
To say that... are objects of construction.

Explains how the deliberative process and our ethical judgments must take into account other agents
Bagnoli 3
First of all... sought to explain

What we owe each other T.M. Scanlon Harvard University Press
We must honor our promises
T.M. Scanlon
consider first a...you in return


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">H.L.A. Hart. Are there any natural rights? (in the anthology, contemporary political philosophy). PG 284-285. 2006.</span>

Promises are important 
H.L.A. Hart
By promising to... else can complain


<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Haralambos Athanasopulos. Nuclear disarmament in international law. McFarland & Company, inc. 2000. Print.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">the UN and international law calls for disarmament </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Haralambos Athanasopulos</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">since 1985 the... to the NPT</span>


==Negative== 
logical consequence nc

Definition of logical consequence
Inference and the Logical "Ought" Author(s): Samuel C. Wheeler III Source: Noûs, Vol. 8, No. 3 (Sep., 1974), pp. 233-258 Published by: Blackwell Publishing Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2214752
Wheeler 1
by the "logical ought"... inconsistency of belief.

ought sentences have truth conditions
Wheeler 2

<span style="line-height: 150%;">__**"Ought"-sentences have**__...__**have truth-conditions.**__</span>

<span style="line-height: 150%;">the only definition of ought that preserves these truth conditions is logical consequence</span>

<span style="line-height: 150%;">Wheeler 3</span>
<span style="line-height: 150%;">Persuasive examples with... __**of his beliefs.**__</span>

<span style="line-height: 150%;">it is obligatory that statements are inconsistent with the use of the word ought</span>

<span style="line-height: 150%;">Wheeler 4</span>
<span style="line-height: 150%;">A factor which...obligation or logic.</span>

Sovereignty off


humans are not capable of moral rationality outside of the community.

<span style="color: black;">The libertarian perspective… enhanced or diminished (for details, see Etzioni 1968a, 1988).

Thus states have an inherent right to sovereignty as sovereignty is the only way to reflect states communal freedom and decisions.</span>






=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]