[[toc]]
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Impact Turns</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AT: China War Good</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Impact---100 Million People Die</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">More than 100 million would die in a U.S.-China war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> ATL, 07 (“United States vs China – Consequences of a Nuclear War”, May 26th 2007, http://www.abytheliberal.com/world-politics/united-states-vs-china-consequences-of-a-nuclear-war, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A nuclear war between China and United States will likely...their much larger population, which is also much more adapted to adversity and wars than the American people.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Impact---Environment</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A US first strike decimates the environment – cause extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Takai, 09, Retired Colonel and Former Researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force (“U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, October 7, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> What would happen if China launched...staggering sums, and to promote nuclear disarmament talks with China. Such advice is worth heeding by nuclear hard-liners.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China Fights</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China would fight – nationalism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Christensen, 02 – Associate Professor of Political Science at MIT and a China specialist (Thomas J., “The Contemporary Security Dilemma: Deterring a Taiwan Conflict”, Washington Quarterly, Vol. 25, No. 4, Autumn 2002, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Given the Taiwan issue and relations among...the leadership transition currently under way in China.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> That means we control uniqueness on nuclear usage – nationalism is the only scenario for China using nukes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moore, 06 – Undergraduate Research Assistant, East Asia Nonproliferation Program (Scott, “Nuclear Conflict in the 21st Century: Reviewing the Chinese Nuclear Threat”, CNS, October 18th 2006, http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_80.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It thus appears...which could include nuclear weapons.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nationalists will demand an attack</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hanlon, 05 – Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy at Brookings (Michael, “The Risk of War Over Taiwan is Real”, Brookings, May 1st 2005, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2005/0501asia_ohanlon.aspx, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It is not just China's...operation might be preferable to inaction.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Escalation</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Taiwan-China war is the most probable impact – escalation is politically necessary for the CCP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Shirk, 08 – Ho Miu Lam Professor of China and Pacific Relations at the University of California-San Diego (Susan, China Fragile Superpower, p. 2, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Taiwan is an...depended on it.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> China would have to escalate</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Shirk, 08 – Ho Miu Lam Professor of China and Pacific Relations at the University of California-San Diego (Susan, China Fragile Superpower, p. 186-187 Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> During the 1990s, the Communist...House actively discourages provocations from Taiwan, it helps China's leaders restrain themselves and not overreact.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nationalism and extended deterrence ensure escalation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Long, 08 – Adjunct Researcher at the RAND Corporation (Austin, “Deterrence From Cold War to Long War”, RAND, 2008, p. 84-85, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The potential for a U.S.-China clash...independence. The following section briefly discusses a few scenarios for Chinese use of force and steps the United States could take to mitigate them.12</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Studies go aff</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Brookings, 09 – Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies (“Simulation of a Crisis in the Taiwan Strait”, Brookings, August 20th 2009, http://www.brookings.edu/events/2009/0520_taiwan_simulation.aspx, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A second benefit of...from the crisis (viewing it in part as an opportunity). </span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lieber and Press Indicts</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lieber and Press’ study is flawed – we don’t know where China’s weapons are – a first strike is literally impossible</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bin, 06 – Professor of the Institute of International Studies, Tsinghua University (Li, “Paper Tiger with Whitened Teeth”, 2006, http://www.wsichina.org/cs4_5.pdf, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Rather than exploring why China...illusion, and if taken seriously it would bring dire risks to the United States.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, they’re arg is wrong – poor conclusions and belief in nuclear primacy proves you err aff</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bin, 06 – Professor of the Institute of International Studies, Tsinghua University (Li, “Paper Tiger with Whitened Teeth”, 2006, http://www.wsichina.org/cs4_5.pdf, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In a recently published paper...action as a result of a reliance on this false belief would lead to disaster for America and the rest of the world.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AT: China Loses</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Even if China loses conventionally they will use nukes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Chase, Erickson and Yeaw, 09 – *Assistant Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department at the Naval War College, Assistant Professor in the Strategic Research Department at the U.S. Naval War College, *Associate Professor in the Warfare Analysis and Research Department at the U.S. Naval War College (*Michael, Andrew, *Christopher, “The Future of Chinese Deterrence Strategy”, The Jamestown Foundation, March 4th 2009, http://www.jamestown.org/single/?no_cache=1&tx_ttnews[tt_news]=34661, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Among the other issues reportedly...military conflict over Taiwan.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Even if they are right that the crisis is stable initially, Chinese doctrine ensures escalation to nukes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lieber and Press, 07 – *Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame AND Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Military Consultant for the DOD (*Keir A., Daryl G., “U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the Future of the Chinese Deterrent”, China Security, Winter 2007, p. 72-74, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A second line of criticism...may in fact be grave.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Proliferation Good---Generic</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Prolif is inevitable and stabilizing – restricting deterrence fails to solve and simply puts the US at greater risk</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lowther, 09 – Research Professor at the Air Force Research Institute, Defense Analyst (Adam B., "Learning to love the bomb", Boston Globe, March 18th 2009, July 14th 2010, http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2009/03/18/learning_to_love_the_bomb/, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Third, conventional capabilities...not be a wise idea. It certainly deserves careful thought.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 2. Regardless of if they solve in the abstract, current geopolitical realities make controlling proliferation impossible</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Eyal, 08 – Director of International Security Studies at RUSI, Ph.D. from Oxford in International Relations (Jonathan, "Zero chance of 'zero option'", News Clips, December 15th 2008, July 14th 2010, http://heresthenews.blogspot.com/2008/12/zero-chance-of-option.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Yet, as compelling...never properly addressed.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 3. History proves – prolif is slow and solves conflict through mutual deterrence</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bennett, 05 – Staff Writer for the Boston Globe (Drake, "Give nukes a chance", Boston Globe, March 20th 2005, July 14th 2010, http://www.boston.com/news/globe/ideas/articles/2005/03/20/give_nukes_a_chance?pg=full, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> KENNETH N. WALTZ, adjunct...welcomed than feared.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 4. Even if wars still happen, prolif solves escalation – history proves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sechser, 08 – Assistant Professor at the Woodrow Wilson Department of Politics at the University of Virginia (Todd S., "Nuclear Weapons", University of Virginia, December 30th 2008, July 14th 2010, p. 4-5, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> What about conflicts which, despite...eventually the challenger backed down.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 5. Prolif makes miscalc less likely and rational self-interest solves preemption</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Woods, 02 – Ph.D. from the University of Nottingham (Matthew, "Reflections on nuclear optimism: Waltz, Burke and proliferation", Review of International Studies, 2002, July 14th 2010, Vol. 28, Issue 1, p. 5-6, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Optimism appears in four waves. It arises in Europe...to this problem, contends Gallois, the intentional proliferation of nuclear weapons.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 6. History disproves all their warrants for war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sechser, 08 – Assistant Professor at the Woodrow Wilson Department of Politics at the University of Virginia (Todd S., "Nuclear Weapons", University of Virginia, December 30th 2008, July 14th 2010, p. 1, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The idea that the...greater international stability.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 7. Finally, prefer our ev – proliferation pessimists give in to nuclear phobia and fail to make rational, calculated assessments</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Tepperman, 09 -- Former Deputy Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, Assistant Managing Editor at Newsweek (Jonathon, "Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb", Newsweek, August 29th 2009, July 14th 2010, http://www.newsweek.com/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Put this all together and nuclear weapons...make to the public.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---Slow</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Prolif will be slow – too expensive, too time consuming, and history proves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Tepperman, 09 -- Former Deputy Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, Assistant Managing Editor at Newsweek (Jonathon, "Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb", Newsweek, August 29th 2009, July 14th 2010, http://www.newsweek.com/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The risk of an arms race—with, say...tend to mellow behavior.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nuclear materials are expensive and difficult to come by</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Schilling, 02 – President of the Washington Institute of Technology, a Washington-based Defense Analysis Firm (William R., Nontraditional Warfare: Twenty-First-Century Threats and Responses, “Nuclear Weapons Proliferation”, p. 231, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Another important reason...from building nuclear weapons.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---Rationality</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">More ev – prolif deters conflict and forces leaders to think and act rationally</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sechser, 08 – Assistant Professor at the Woodrow Wilson Department of Politics at the University of Virginia (Todd S., "Nuclear Weapons", University of Virginia, December 30th 2008, July 14th 2010, p. 4-5, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The optimist camp’s first and most important claim...conventional war might become nuclear.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---Prefer Our Evidence</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, empirics go our way – even if leaders talk of nuclear war they won’t ever actually do it</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hagerty, 96 – Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Sydney (Devin, “Nuclear Deterrence and the 19990 Indo-Pakistan Crisis, International Security, Vol. 21, No. 1, Summer 1996, p. 184, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, the senior U.S...expect that this will change.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Modules</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bioweapons</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Solving nuclear prolif causes a shift to bioweapons</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Zilinskas, 00 [Raymond A., Former Clinical Microbiologist and Dir. – Chemical and Biological Weapons Nonproliferation Program – Center for Nonproliferation Studies of Monterey Institute of International Studies, in “Biological Warfare: Modern Offense and Defense,” Ed. Raymond A. Zilinskas, p. 1-2, Google Print]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It is an odd characteristic...cadavers into citadels (Poupard and Miller, 1992).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Horowitz, 05- Ph.D. in Political Science from Harvard (Does Proliferation Matter? Assessing the Empirical Impact of Biological, Chemical and Nuclear Weapons on International Security, p. 19)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Though biological weapons...the following hypothesis.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Conventional Wars</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Proliferation deters conventional wars</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Delvoie, 02 [Louis, Former Assistant Deputy Minister – National Defense Headquarters (Canada) and Senior Fellow – Center for International Relations – Queens U., Canadian Military Journal, “VIEWS AND OPINIONS IN PRAISE OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS”, Autumn, http://www.journal.forces.gc.ca/vo3/no3/doc/66-69-eng.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The first of these truths...overly hegemonistic ambitions.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Conventional wars outweigh</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Waltz, 98 – Professor of Political Science at UC Berkeley (Kenneth, “Interview: Is Kenneth Waltz Still M.A.D. about Nukes?”, Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, Winter/Spring 1998, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It is conventional...for small nuclear countries.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Satellites</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Prolif spurs satellite expansion</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Norris, 07 [Pat, Space Strategy Manager – Logica UK, “Spies in the sky: surveillance satellites in war and peace”, p. 169-170, Google Print]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Surveillance satellites that are...tests undertaken by North Korea.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Key to global environmental sustainability</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Reibaldi, 95 [Giuseppe, European Space Agency, Acta Astronautica, “Contribution of Space Activities to Peace”, 35:8, ScienceDirect]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The 1970s have seen...of sustainable development.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cairns, 04 [John Cairns, 2004. Department of Biology, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. “Future of Life on Earth,” Ethics in Science and Environmental Politics, www.int-res.com/esepbooks/EB2Pt2.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> One lesson from the five great...to live unsustainably?</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Proliferation Good---Asia---Generic</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Asian proliferation key to peace</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alagappa, 09 – Distinguished Senior Fellow at the East-West Center, PhD in International Affairs from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University (Muthiah, “Nuclear Weapons Reinforce Security and Stability in 21st Century Asia”, Journal of the East Asia Foundation, Spring 2009, http://globalasia.org/articles/issue9/iss9_17.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Continuing emphasis on...to security and stability in Asia.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 2. Small arsenals solve</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cha, 01 – Professor of Government at Georgetown, Former Director for Asian Affairs in the White House's National Security Council, with responsibility for Japan, North and South Korea, Australia, and New Zealand, Bush’s Top Advisor on North Korean Affairs (Victor, “The Second Nuclear Age: Proliferation Pessimism Versus Sober Optimism in South Asia and East Asia”, Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 24, No. 4, Galileo, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> These arguments also...and de-stabilizing outcomes. </span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---Peace and Small</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">No impact to historical animosity</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cha, 01 – Professor of Government at Georgetown, Former Director for Asian Affairs in the White House's National Security Council, with responsibility for Japan, North and South Korea, Australia, and New Zealand, Bush’s Top Advisor on North Korean Affairs (Victor, “The Second Nuclear Age: Proliferation Pessimism Versus Sober Optimism in South Asia and East Asia”, Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 24, No. 4, Galileo, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Either explicitly or implicitly informing...commit suicide as the primary cause.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nuclear taboo ensures no intentional use</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cha, 01 – Professor of Government at Georgetown, Former Director for Asian Affairs in the White House's National Security Council, with responsibility for Japan, North and South Korea, Australia, and New Zealand, Bush’s Top Advisor on North Korean Affairs (Victor, “The Second Nuclear Age: Proliferation Pessimism Versus Sober Optimism in South Asia and East Asia”, Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 24, No. 4, Galileo, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Proliferation pessimists...as a nuclear state.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Consensus goes neg – prolif in Asia reduces the likelihood of conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alagappa, 08 – Distinguished Senior Fellow at the East-West Center, PhD in International Affairs from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University (Muthiah, The Long Shadow: Nuclear Weapons and Security in 21st Century Asia, 2008, p. 26, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In exploring the implications of...situation of complex interdependence.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT: Cimbala</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cimbala is wrong – 2 reasons</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cha, 01 – Professor of Government at Georgetown, Former Director for Asian Affairs in the White House's National Security Council, with responsibility for Japan, North and South Korea, Australia, and New Zealand, Bush’s Top Advisor on North Korean Affairs (Victor, “The Second Nuclear Age: Proliferation Pessimism Versus Sober Optimism in South Asia and East Asia”, Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 24, No. 4, Galileo, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Proliferation pessimists...responsibility to be borne as a nuclear state.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, animosity means nothing</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cha, 01 – Professor of Government at Georgetown, Former Director for Asian Affairs in the White House's National Security Council, with responsibility for Japan, North and South Korea, Australia, and New Zealand, Bush’s Top Advisor on North Korean Affairs (Victor, “The Second Nuclear Age: Proliferation Pessimism Versus Sober Optimism in South Asia and East Asia”, Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 24, No. 4, Galileo, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Either explicitly or implicitly informing...nuclear exchanges in Asia should focus not on hate but on the willingness to commit suicide as the primary cause.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Empirically proven</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Powell, 07 – Robson Professor of Political Science at UC Berkeley (Robert, “When is Nuclear Proliferation Dangerous?”, 2007, http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1474&p=3, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nuclear deterrence theory...exchange between India and Pakistan.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Proximity doesn’t cause war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Waltz, 00 – Professor of Political Science at UC Berkeley (Kenneth, “Interview: Is Kenneth Waltz Still M.A.D. about Nukes?”, Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, Vol. 1, No. 1, Winter/Spring 2000, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Stability in the subcontinent...small enough to place in a van and move around.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Proliferation Good---Japan</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Japanese prolif solves Asian stability</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> White, 08 – Visiting Fellow at the Lowy Institute for International Policy and Professor of Strategic Studies at the Australian National University (Hugh, “Why Japan might have to go nuclear,” The Lowy Interpreter, July 16th 2008, http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2008/07/Why-Japan-might-have-to-go-nuclear.aspx, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I should have known Sam...for a stable Asian region.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 2. Japan prolif deters China</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> White, 08 – Visiting Fellow at the Lowy Institute for International Policy and Professor of Strategic Studies at the Australian National University (Hugh, “Why Japan might have to go nuclear,” The Lowy Interpreter, July 16th 2008, http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2008/07/Why-Japan-might-have-to-go-nuclear.aspx, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The risk of failure to...deterrent is necessary for peace in Asia.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 3. Japan prolif forces Chinese sanction on North Korea – removes Kim from power</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Martin, 09 – Journalist Covering Asia for 25+ Years, Former Bureau Chief for: The Baltimore Sun, The Asian Wall Street Journal, Newsweek, and Asia Times (Bradley K., “Opinion: Time to encourage Japan and South Korea to go nuclear?” Global Post, May 27th 2009, http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/southkorea/090527/time-encourage-japan-and-south-korea-go-nuclear?page=0,1, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A different view is that what is...leveraged buyout negotiations.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> North Korea will sell nukes to terrorists</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Allison, 09 – Professor of Government at Harvard University, Former Director at Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, Former Dean at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard (Graham, “North Korea's Nuclear Program: Looking Forward,” Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, June 9th 2009, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/19105/north_koreas_nuclear_program.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Graham Allison: President Obama...Obama's national security priority list.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Alexander, 03 (Yonah, Prof at the Inter-University for Terrorism Studies in Israel and the United States, “Terrorism myths and realities”, Washington Times, 8/28/1903, p. http://www.washingtontimes.com/commentary/19030827-084256-8999r.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Last week's brutal suicide...security concerns.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---Asia Stability</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Japan prolif creates balance of power with China – key regional stability</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sisci, 03 – Beijing-Based Asia Editor of La Stampa (Francesco, “In Beijing, diplomatic opportunities abound,” Asia Times, April 19th 2003, http://wvw.atimes.com/atimes/China/ED19Ad01.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Tokyo is extremely concerned...been keeping</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---Deters China</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Japan arsenal prevents Chinese nuclear aggression</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kase, 01 – Post-Doctoral Research Fellow at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies and Monterey Institute of International Studies, Ph.D. from the Mountbatten Centre for International Studies (Yuri, “The Costs and Benefits of Japan’s Nuclearization: An Insight into the 1968/70 Internal Report”, The Nonproliferation Review, Summer 2001, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, other Japanese academics...against China.39</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---North Korean Sanctions</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, not stopping the regime causes loss of liberty</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Rummel, 03 – Professor Emeritus of Political Science at the University of Hawaii (Rudolph, “The Democidal Famine In North Korea,” Korea and World Affairs, Summer, http://www.orthodoxytoday.org/articles4/RummelKorea.php, Crowe)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The North Korean communist regime should...the cost of war?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Outweighs everything</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Petro, 74 (Sylvester professor of law, Wake Forest University, Spring, TOLEDO LAW REVIEW, p. 480. MH)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> However, one may...with undying spirit.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Japan prolif key to force Chinese sanctions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Krauthammer, 09 – Nationally syndicated columnist, Pulitzer Prize winner, and columnist for the Washington Post (Charles, “Krauthammer’s Take”, National Review Online, May 27th 2009, http://corner.nationalreview.com/post/?q=NTFmMTFmNjhjNjk1MmE2ZjY0YmJjZmMzNjgwZGNhOTI=, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I think it's time to recognize that...Otherwise, nothing happens.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Perception spurs Chinese action</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Klein, 06 – Washington Correspondent for the American Spectator (Philip, “Nuclear Japan”, American Spectator Blog, October 20th 2006, http://spectator.org/blog/2006/10/20/nuclear-japan, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In his Washington Post column today..nuclear to twist China's arm.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> North Korea totally dependent on China – Chinese sanctions would change North Korean behavior</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Noland and Haggard, 09 – *Senior Fellow at the East-West Center and the Peterson Institute for International Economics AND Professor at UC San Diego’s Graduate School of International Relations and Pacific Studies (*Marcus AND Stephan, “Economic Shifts Critical for North Korea Sanctions,” East West Center, June 20th 2009, http://www.eastwestcenter.org/news-center/east-west-wire/economic-shifts-critical-for-north-korea-sanctions/, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A second, and apparently contradictory...located right at China’s doorstep.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Proliferation Good---North Korea</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. North Korea prolif is slow
Thompson, 09 – Editor for TIME (Mark, “Will Offshore Searches Slow North Korean Nukes?”, Times Magazine, June 17th 2009, http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1905098,00.html, KONTOPOULOS)
Under last week's U.N. resolution...something equally nonthreatening."

2. North Korea will continue to nuclearize – our ev is comparative with countries who gave up
Lavelle, 09 – Ph.D. in European Economic History from UC Davis (Peter, “North Korea and the Inevitable”, Russia Today, May 29th 2009, http://www.russiatoday.com/About_Us/Blogs/Untimely_Thoughts/2009-05-29.html, KONTOPOULOS)
Is it inevitable that the world will have to accept...course – North Korea doesn’t.

3. North Korean proliferation key to US-Sino relations
Mazarr, 95 – Director of the New Millennium Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Michael J. “Going Just A Little Bit Nuclear”, International Security, Vol. 20, No. 2, Autumn 1995, p. 92-122, KONTOPOULOS) PDF
There are risks as well...relationship with the world's most important emerging power because of a dispute over tactics.

Solves world peace
Fu, 06 – Senior Research Professor of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and former Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in Behavioral Science at Stanford (Zhengyuan, “The Taiwan Issue and Sino-US Relations”, Transnational and Contemporary Problems, 2006, Lexis Nexis, KONTOPOULOS)
I. Introduction In the Twenty-First Century, China's...only for the two peoples, who account for more than one-fourth of mankind, but for the rest of the world as well.

4. Nuclear North Korea prevents war
Waltz, 95 – Professor of Political Science at UC Berkeley (Kenneth, “Peace, Stability, and Nuclear Weapons”, Columbia International Affairs, Galileo, KONTOPOULOS)
Despite North Korea's exposed position...states counseled patience.

5. The experts are on our side – North Korea will act rationally
Saunders and Pinkston 03 – *Director of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program at Monterey Institute’s Center for Nonproliferation Studies AND **Senior Research Associate at Monterey Institute’s Center for Nonproliferation Studies (*Phillip C. AND **Daniel A., “Seeing North Korea Clearly”, Survival, Autumn 2003, Vol. 45, No. 3, pp. 79-102, KONTOPOULOS) PDF
Lack of information and...counter-productive results.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---Inevitable</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">NK nuclear development inevitable – five reasons
Mazarr, 95 – Director of the New Millennium Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Michael J., “Going Just a Little Bit Nuclear”, International Security, Vol. 20, No. 2, Autumn 1995, p. 92-122, KONTOPOULOS) PDF
North Korea's effort...Pyongyang's freedom of action.

And, they’re too driven to give up nukes now
Cha, 09 – Former Director for Asian Affairs in the White House's National Security Council and D. S. Song-Korea Foundation Chair in Asian Studies and Director of the Asian Studies program at Georgetown University (Victor D., “Pyongbang!”, Foreign Affairs, April 7th 2009, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/64919/victor-d-cha/pyongbang, KONTOPOULOS)
Instant commentary in the West...by Kim's debility.

DPRK will continue to nuclearize, they view it as the only way to deal with the US
Carpenter and Peña, 05 – *Vice President for Defense and Foreign Policy Studies at CATO AND **Former Director of Defense Policy Studies at CATO (*Ted Galen AND **Charles V., “Rethinking Non-Proliferation”, National Interest, 2005, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=6337, KONTOPOULOS)
America's goal of stopping nuclear non-proliferation...weapons--the last thing Washington wanted.

And only way to deter the US
Carpenter and Peña, 05 – *Vice President for Defense and Foreign Policy Studies at CATO AND **Former Director of Defense Policy Studies at CATO (*Ted Galen AND **Charles V., “Rethinking Non-Proliferation”, National Interest, 2005, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=6337, KONTOPOULOS)
Contrast those actions with Washington's...price we are now paying.

It’s an economic necessity for DPRK to continue to develop
Tennant, 07 – Editor and M.A. in IR from the University of Chicago (Agnieszka, “What To Do About Nukes”, Christianity Today, August 13th 2007, http://www.christianitytoday.com/ct/2007/august/15.50.html, KONTOPOULOS)
A nuclear-free world is not...takes on in the TV series 24.

Past failures in diplomacy make nuclearization inevitable
Cha, 09 – Former Director for Asian Affairs in the White House's National Security Council and D. S. Song-Korea Foundation Chair in Asian Studies and Director of the Asian Studies program at Georgetown University (Victor D., “Pyongbang!”, Foreign Affairs, April 7th 2009, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/64919/victor-d-cha/pyongbang, KONTOPOULOS)
Sunday's launch was a violation...programs slowly advance.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---Chinese Relations</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, it solves every scenario for extinction
Cohen and Greenberg, 09 (William S. Cohen is chairman and CEO of The Cohen Group, a strategic business consulting firm based in Washington, D.C. Secretary Cohen served as U.S. secretary of defense, Maurice R. Greenberg is chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. Mr. Greenberg retired four years ago as chairman and CEO of American International Group (AIG) after more than 40 years of leadership, creating the largest insurance company in history, “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,” pg online @ http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf)
The evolution of Sino-U.S. relations...EP-3 reconnaissance plane collision in April 2001.

A perceived nuclear threat from North Korea is critical to maintaining the US-Sino relationship
Glaser and Liang, 08 – *Senior Associate at CSIS AND **CSIS Research Analyst (*Bonnie S. AND **Wang, “North Korea: The Beginning of a China-U.S. Partnership?”, The Washington Quarterly, Summer 2008, Vol. 31, Issue 3, p. 165–180, KONTOPOULOS)
“This whole six-party process...stakeholder” in the international system.

Failed talks and rapid Korean nuclearization push the US and China into a healthy partnership
Glaser and Liang, 08 – *Senior Associate at CSIS AND **CSIS Research Analyst (*Bonnie S. AND **Wang, “North Korea: The Beginning of a China-U.S. Partnership?”, The Washington Quarterly, Summer 2008, Vol. 31, Issue 3, p. 165–180, KONTOPOULOS)
Even though the agreement lacked specificity, and Washington...Koizumi of Japan’s visits to the Yasukuni Shrine.34


North Korean nuclear co-op resulted in best US-Sino relations in 30 years
Glaser and Liang, 08 – *Senior Associate at CSIS AND **CSIS Research Analyst (*Bonnie S. AND **Wang, “North Korea: The Beginning of a China-U.S. Partnership?”, The Washington Quarterly, Summer 2008, Vol. 31, Issue 3, p. 165–180, KONTOPOULOS)
In early September, Powell described U.S.- Chinese relations...find a solution to this problem.”</span>







<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]</span>