[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Observation One: Inherency
Current Futenma relocation plans are deadlocked—negotiations between the United States and Japan get nowhere, straining the alliance.
Sakai, researcher, writer and editor of Tanaka News (www.tanakanews.com), a Japanese-language news service on Japan and the world, 8/10 [ Tanaka, The Asia Pacific Journal, "How Long Will US Forces Continue to Occupy Japan and Korea? China, the US and the New Division of Power in the Asia-Pacific," The Asia-Pacific Journal, 33-1-10, August 16, 2010http:www.japanfocus.org/-Tanaka-Sakai/3401]
During the former administration …… be difficult to do so.
Thus the Plan: The United States Federal Government should close down the Futenma Air Base. 
Advantage 1: Alliance and Cooperation
Failure to close Futenma risks alienating the Japanese public, ensuring an end to the 60-year old alliance that is the foundation for broader cooperation on global issues – now is the key time, and broader cooperation solves for North Korean instability and China miscalculation.
Sheila A. Smith, Senior fellow for Japan Studies, Council on Foreign Relations, July 28, 2010, “Successful U.S.-Japan Agenda Must Meet Public Expectations,” http://e.nikkei.com/e/fr/tnks/Nni
20100728D28JF008.htm)
Adapting this relationship ……………and confident U.S.-Japan partnership.
There are multiple impacts—1. North Korea
Cooperation necessary to curtail North Korean Aggression. Failure to de-nuclearize North Korea results in miscalculation, leading to regional arms race and a nuclear holocaust.
Hamel-Green 10 (1/5, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/)
The consequences of failing to ……….American nuclear hegemony.”
2. Warming
U.S.-Japan cooperation is key it sets a precedent for cooperation on clean energy in Asia—solves climate change.
Nirav Patel, a research associate, specializing in Asian affairs, at the Center for a New American Security.// December 7 2007 World Politics Review, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance Should Evolve to Encompass Environmental Cooperation,” http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/1420/the-u-s-japan-alliance-should-evolve-to-encompass-environmental-cooperation,”)
Historically, U.S.-Japan …………….undermine international peace, stability and security.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">And a Warming induced Methane leak sparks a host of impacts
JE Robertson 9 ( 3-9-2009,Building the Green Economy, crisis Policy Forum, Renewable Resources, Water Scarcity, Zero-combustion paradigm:
[[http://www.casavaria.com/hotspring/%202009/03/337/global-climate-%20destabilization-is-major-%20security-economic-threat|www.casavaria.com/hotspring/ 2009/03/337/global-climate- destabilization-is-major- security-economic-threat]]---BG)</span></span>
The new administration in …………….<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> dependent on the monsoons.</span>
3. Missile Defense
US Japan cooperation is necessary for Joint Missile defense – it is key for ongoing tests
Payne, 10, Member of the Defense Science Board, the DoD Threat Reduction Advisory Committee, [Keith Co-chairman of the Nuclear Strategy Forum, Thomas Scheber, Principal Associate Director for Nuclear Weapons Program; March “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia”; http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf; Accessed 7/16/10] 
In recent years, joint ………… missile defense training.157 
US-Japan BMD key to checking prolif
Swaine et. al. ‘7
(Michael D. Swaine, 12/7, Ph.D., Harvard University, Senior Associate and Co-Director of the China Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Rachel M. Swanger and Takashi Kawakami @ Rand, “Japan and Ballistic Missile Defense,” p.RAND)
Finally, Japanese participation ……………are worthless and wasteful.5 
Nuclear war
Utgoff ‘2
(Victor – deputy director for strategy, forces and resources division at the Institute for Defense Analysis, Survival, p. OUP Journals)
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Widespread proliferation </span>……………….cities or even <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">whole nations</span>
Advantage 2: Kadena Air Base
Not doing the plan undermines our ability to hold onto Kadena – The plan saves the base without impacting deterrence
O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings, Director of Research for the 21st Centry Defense Initiative, 9-2-4 (Michael, before the Commission on Review of Overseas Military Facility Structure of the United States,http://govinfo.library.unt.edu/osbc/documents/
OSBC%20transcript%209-2-04.pdf)
Second point. Okinawa……………reconsider some of that.
And, Kadena is categorically more important to deterrence than our Marine presence – The plan is critical to shoring up political support for the base.
Mochizuki, Ph.D., Japan-U.S. Relations Chair in Memory of Gaston Sigur at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University & O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings, Director of Research for the 21st Centry Defense Initiative, 1-10 (Mike & Michael, “A proposed compromise on Futenma: The unnecessary crisis,” The Oriental Economist)
Why have Washington and …………..the 50th anniversary of the US- Japan Security Treaty.
And, Kadena is critical to deterring a China – Taiwan conflict
Ross, Political Sicence Professor at Boston College & Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies at Harvard University, 2 (Robert, “Navigating the Tiawan Strait: Deterrance, Escalation Dominance, and US-China Relations, International Security)
Deterrence could fail if ……… strategy to challenge the status quo.
The U.S. will get drawn into the conflict – It escalates globally and causes nuclear war
Hunkovic, of the American Military University, 9 (Lee, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict: Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan, and the United States,” American Military University Course Paper, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/
Hunkovic.pdf)
Observation Two: Solvency
First, Futenma is an immediate threat to U.S.-Japan relations and alliance—only closing the base can ease tensions and stop future protests that will erode US presence further.
Feffer 10 ”Okinawa and the New Domino Effect,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh01.html, )
The immediate source of tension ………… new government in Tokyo into a corner. 
Futenma has no strategic military value to the US in the region. However, closing it would prevent protest movements from spilling over into other bases.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Mochizuki and O’Hanlon, , is Associate Dean of the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University and holds the Japan-US Relations Chair in Memory of Gaston Sigur. Michael O’Hanlon, Director of Research and a Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, is author of The Science of War. “A proposed compromise on Futenma The unnecessary crisis, 2010 January Mike Mochizuki” THE ORIENTAL ECONOMIST http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=32&ved=0CDUQFjABOB4&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.gwu.edu%2F~elliott%2Fassets%2Fdocs%2Fnews%2Fmochizuki_futenma_orientalEconomist_0110.pdf&ei=tP8gTMnVCYaDnQfKjdVf&usg=AFQjCNFKUnjurrUisw0LtFv1LQ-7PrX5cg&sig2=QHHKqwcaJTnvLAPzK0mP-Q)</span></span>
What then should be done to prevent an alliance crisis? ………….the US- Japan Security Treaty.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]