<span style="height: 75pt; width: 168.75pt;"> </span> 
=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Contact me </span>__</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">You can contact me for any cites at: </span>[[mailto:db8erbibas@gmail.com|db8erbibas@gmail.com]] 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">If you are having trouble finding the cite, just email me and i'll send you a full text.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Affirmative </span>__</span>= 
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Japan Navy </span></span>== 
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">1ac University of Texas Longhorn Classic </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Text: The United States federal government should end nearly all of its naval presence in Japan.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Advantage 1 is JAPAN** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Rising public opposition in Japan to US naval presence is straining the relationship – a substantial reduction of presence is critical to lay the foundation for the future of the U.S./Japan alliance** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Shorrock 10-4-**2010 (</span>[[http://www.ipsnewsasia.net/bridgesfromasia/node/21]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">, “Public Pressure to Shape US Military presence in Region)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__A combination of public opposition….__sure Japan should take on a military role."  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – U.S. Naval presence is a particularly volatile issue** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**McCurry 6 (**Justin, //The Guardian,// 1-7-06, Murder fuels Japan's hostility to US navy presence, </span>[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2006/jan/07/usa.japan|__http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2006/jan/07/usa.japan__]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)DR </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The decision to hand the sailor…..to the streets in protest.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – Japanese public opposition matters – the formation of new Japanese foreign policy guarantees that public opposition will translate into action** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Mereand 9 (**Richard, //National Security Analyst with the Association with the United States Army’s (AUSA’s) Institute of Land Warfare,// 12-29-09, The Evolution of the U.S.-Japan Alliance, </span>[[http://www.ausa.org/publications/ilw/ilw_pubs/nationalsecuritywatch/Documents/NSW09-4.pdf|__http://www.ausa.org/publications/ilw/ilw_pubs/nationalsecuritywatch/Documents/NSW09-4.pdf__]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)DR  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) ….. __can strongly assert Japan’s will__.”3 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – the U.S./Japan alliance is unsustainable as long as the Japanese people see their country as a base for U.S. adventurism, the plan is key** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Blumenthal No Date (**Dan, //Resident Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research,// No Date Given, The Revival of the U.S.-Japanese Alliance, </span>[[http://www.aei.org/outlook/22027|__http://www.aei.org/outlook/22027__]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)DR </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">However, __the United States cannot take …..__support for Tokyo's independent strategic concerns. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – These political tensions jeopardize the effectiveness of the alliance.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Kyodo News International 9-16-**2010 (</span>[[http://newsystocks.com/news/3697375]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">, “FOCUS, Progress in US-Japan Relations hinge on Kan’s leadership”) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Naoto Kan's victory in Tuesday's presidential …..**whether it's diplomacy or otherwise**.'__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – This makes cooperation over a litany of issues impossible** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The Atlantic Council of the United States 2002** (</span>[[http://www.rips.or.jp/english/publications/special_reports/pdf/new_frontiers.pdf]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">, “ New Frontiers for US-Japan Security Relations”)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Reducing Friction in the Alliance. Three problem ….. **in the absence of such a relationship.**__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And –relations are key to Asian stability – prevents multiple nuclear conflicts throughout Asia** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**INSS 2k** (Institute for National Strategic Studies – National Defense University, //The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership//, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Major war in Europe is inconceivable for ….. redefining and reinvigorating bilateral security ties. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Advantage 2 is GREAT POWER CONFLICT** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**US naval presence in Japan will escalate into great power conflicts with China and Russia** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Rozoff 11-4 (**Rick, //author and geopolitical analyst,// 11-4-10, Washington-Tokyo Axis: U.S. Supports Japan, Confronts China And Russia Over Island Disputes, </span>[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=21769]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)DR </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">In a six-day span the __U.S. State Department has …..__ 1950s, though now in an Asia with several nuclear powers.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">We’ll isolate two scenarios: </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">First US-China War </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Specifically, the development and deployment of the DF-21D guarantees a fatal naval miscalculation between the US and China.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__Yoshihara ‘10__** (Dr. Toshi, //Associate Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department at the Naval War College, former Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air War College, Ph.D. International Relations, The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, M.A. International Relations, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University, B.S. International Relations, School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University,// 7-1-2010, “Chinese Missile Strategy and the U.S. Naval Presence in Japan: The Operational View from Beijing,” Naval War College Review, (... denotes non-US-ASCII text omitted) </span>[[http://www.faqs.org/periodicals/201007/2046727461.html]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">In recent years, **__defense analysts in the__** **__…..__**militarily, against Beijing's emerging missile strategy. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">That causes Extinction.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Straits Times, 2000__ (June 25) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Conflict on such a scale would embroil ….. would see the destruction of civilisation**.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">And – All of their deterrence and containment good arguments are based on flawed methodology. The rise of China does not threaten U.S. power or make conflict inevitable.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Shambaugh, 5 (David, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, International Security, Winter) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Some observers in the United States, however, ….. considering China’s new ascendance in Asian affairs.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Scenario Two – RUSSIA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Sour US-Russian relations embolden Syria </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Ghattas, 08 (Sam F. Ghattas. “Syria takes advantage of Russia-U.S. tensions; Iran may be next” Associated Press, Aug 26, 2008, http://www.startribune.com/templates/Print_This_Story?sid=27439334) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Syria's President Bashar Assad has publicly stepped ….. harder against Israel and the U.S."  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">This opportunity translates into Syrian Iskander Missiles, evoking aggression and making war inevitable with Israel </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Kass, 05 (Lee- analyst in the research and analysis division of Science Applications International Corporation; “Syria after Lebanon: The Growing Syrian Missile Threat” Middle East Quarterly. Fall 2005. http://www.meforum.org/article/755) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The Syrian regime's efforts to upgrade ….. and its ability to wage a future war </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Syrian missile strike snowballs to nuclear Armageddon  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Strategic Analysis, 2k [Sharad Joshi. “Israel’s Nuclear Policy: A Cost-Benefit Analysis” Strategic Analysis: A Monthly Journal of the IDSA March 2000 (Vol. XXIII No. 12) http://www.ciaonet.org/olj/sa/sa_00jos01.html] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__The Syrian__ chemical __arsenal ….. be ripe for a nuclear Armageddon__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Add-Ons </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Rape</span>** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Naval presence at Yokosuka fuels rape and public opposition** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**McCurry 6** (Justin, The Guardian, 1-7-06, Murder fuels Japan's hostility to US navy presence, http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2006/jan/07/usa.japan)DR </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The decision to hand the ….on to the streets in protest. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Militarized rape is grounded in dichotomies of victory and defeat – D-rule** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**ENLOE 00** (Chloe, “Maneuvers: The International Politics of Militarizing Women's Lives,” 2000, p111) SLV </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">There are as many different …. institutions of organized violence. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">2ac Stuff </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">China - Deterrence Fails</span>** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Deterrence failure and rise of China inevitable** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Ghani 8-29** (Rizwan, author for the Pakistan Observer, 8-29-10, Time for China’s Blue Water Navy, http://pakobserver.net/detailnews.asp?id=49512)DR </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Following American Navy’s joint …. to China’s naval power. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**US maritime hegemony has failed.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Asia News 9-24 (**Asia News, Asian News Source, Japan: China: Us: The Senkaku Diaoyu conflict and the end of U.S. supremacy on the seas, 9-24-10, Japan: China: Us: The Senkaku Diaoyu conflict and the end of U.S. supremacy on the seas , http://www.speroforum.com/site/article.asp?id=40324&t=Japan:++China:++Us:+++The+Senkaku+Diaoyu+conflict+and+the+end+of+U.S.+supremacy+on+the+seas)DR </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Milan - The recent conflict between …. and the beginning of the Chinese? </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Deterrence fails in the context of China – modernization.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Global Times 6-8** (global Times, 6-8-10, Carrier Casts a Shadow over Northeast Asia, </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Asahi Shimbun 6-21 (Asahi Shimbun, Chinese news station, China Seeks to Neutralize Japan-U.S. Treaty, http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201006200174.html)DR </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">A rapid buildup of nuclear …. gone cold on the idea. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The US would lose a war vs. China** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Yoshihara 10** (Toshi, associate professor in the Strategy and Policy Department and an affiliate member of the China Maritime Studies Institute at the Naval War College, Summer 2010, Chinese Missile Strategy and the U.S. Naval Presence in Japan: The Operational View from Beijing, http://www.andrewerickson.com/2010/05/chinese-missile-strategy-and-the-u-s-naval-presence-in-japan-the-operational-view-from-beijing/)DR </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">In recent years, defense analysts …. missile campaign. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">South Korea Navy </span></span>== 
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">GDS 1AC: </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Plan: The United States federal government should terminate the presence of its navy in the Republic of Korea.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Advantage 1 is Jeju Island:  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The U.S. is about to build a naval base on Jeju that would devastate marine and coral habitats** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The Times Record, 10 (“South Korean Villagers Say ‘No!’ to U.S. Navy Base”, July 2,</span>[[http://www.timesrecord.com/articles/2010/07/02/opinion/commentaries/doc4c2e2493e0dfe283807936.txt|__http://www.timesrecord.com/articles/2010/07/02/opinion/commentaries/doc4c2e2493e0dfe283807936.txt__]]**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">I have recently returned from a weeklong trip to …on the rocks at Pemaquid Point? I bet Mainers would fight to the bitter end.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – Jeju Island’s marine biodiversity is uniquely important – destruction of the corals would collapse the ocean ecosystem** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Jeju Weekly, 9** (November 26, </span>[[http://jejuweekly.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=426|__http://jejuweekly.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=426__]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Some of Jeju’s treasures areclearly visible, …. It is not just imperativefor environmental reasons, but for tourism, which affects the socio-economics of the local communities.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – Destruction of corals not only collapses entire marine ecosystems, but also causes global famine and severe political unrest** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Red Orbit, 10** (Space, Science, Health & Technology News Source, March 26,</span>[[http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/|__http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/__]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Coral reefs are slowly becoming extinct and …who are facing hunger, and this is just going to aggravate the situation. We will not be able to maintain food security around the world."  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – Extinction** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Craig, 3**(Robin Kundis, Associate Professor at Indiana University’s School of Law, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, Lexis)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for …wherever possible - even if a few fishers go out of business as a result.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Advantage two: China** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Deteriorating relations between the U.S. and China are paving the way for conflict. In particular, strike-group naval exercises in the waters surrounding South Korea guarantee confrontation.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Rozoff, 8/16**/2010 (Rick, Author and Geopolitical Analyst, “U.S.-China Conflict: From War of Words to Talk of War”, Eurasia Review,</span>[[http://www.eurasiareview.com/201008157048/us-china-conflict-from-war-of-words-to-talk-of-war.html|__http://www.eurasiareview.com/201008157048/us-china-conflict-from-war-of-words-to-talk-of-war.html__]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Relations between the U.S. and China have been steadily deteriorating …The noose is tightening around China and the nation’s military knows it.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – These naval exercises doom our ability to influence China’s emergence towards a source of stability and peace in the region. Using our naval presence in South Korea to support a maritime containment strategy of China destroys relations and will dangerously escalate tensions.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Reuters, 8/13**/2010 (Chinese Admiral Says U.S. Drill Courts Confrontation, </span>[[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67B11W20100813?type=politicsNews|__http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67B11W20100813?type=politicsNews__]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">A senior Chinese military strategist called planned U.S. naval … can see that this carries something of a warning to China," wrote Yang.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – China’s rise as a regional power is inevitable – the question is whether the U.S. and China cooperate to resolve global problems or compete through adherence to out-dated concepts of deterrence. Only the plan facilitates a healthy, stable relationship that is necessary to avoid all-out war.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Yi, 8/13**/2010 (Yang, Rear Admiral and Former Director of the Institute for Strategic Studies at the People’s Liberation Army National Defense University, Cold War Mindset Harms Peace, </span>[[http://www.hrana.org/articles.asp|__http://www.hrana.org/articles.asp__]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The recent decision by the United States to involve its … if the two powers really want to avoid confrontation.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – Failure to allow China to rise peacefully ensures catastrophic nuclear war.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Eland, 5** (Ivan, Coexisting With A Rising China, April 11, HTTP:WWW.INDEPENDENT.ORG/NEWSROOM/ARTICLE.ASP?ID=1494)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Instead of emulating the policies of pre-World War I Britain … future catastrophicwar or even a nuclear conflagration.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – Escalation is guaranteed. US-China war causes extinction.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Straits Times, 2k**(June 25)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and ….we would see the destruction of civilisation.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – Their general impact defense does not apply – despite economic interdependence, naval missteps and miscalculations will ignite major conflict** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Reuters, 8/17**/2010 (“China and U.S. Playing Risky Game on the High Seas”, </span>[[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67G10J20100817|__http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67G10J20100817__]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The game of military bluff that China and the United States … the People's Daily said in a commentary on Tuesday.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – Independent of direct U.S.-China war, good relations prevent multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict throughout Asia** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Conable and Lampton, 93**(Barber B, President Emeritus of the World Bank, David, President of the National Committee, China: the Coming Power, Foreign Affairs, December/January, Lexis)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Regionally American interests are both numerous and … of the increasing importance the region attaches to building positive ties to the P.R.C.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – These are the most probable scenarios for great-power nuclear escalation.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Dibb, 1** (Paul, Professor at the Australian National Universtiy, Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review, Winter, HTTP:WWW.NWC.NAVY.MIL/PRESS/REVIEW/2001/WINTER/ART2-W01.HTM)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The areas of maximum danger and … Forum have shown themselves to be ineffective when confronted with major crises.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – Their deterrence disad is a non-starter. Deterrence will inevitably fail between the U.S. and China – we can either peacefully move away from attempting to deter China now, or we must accept the inevitable, catastrophic collapse of our deterrent relationship in the short-term future.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Sayers, 10** (Eric, Master of Science Candidate in the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies at Nanyang Technological University, “Miliatry Dissuasion: A Framework for Influencing PLA Procurement Trends”, NDU Press, </span>[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/military-dissuasion.html|__http://www.ndu.edu/press/military-dissuasion.html__]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The PLA believes America's ability to project power is … observed almost a decade ago, deterrence alone cannot suffice as the guiding mantra of U.S. defense strategy in the Asia-Pacific.7  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – All of their deterrence and containment good arguments are based on flawed methodology. The rise of China does not threaten U.S. power or make conflict inevitable.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Shambaugh, 5** (David, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, International Security, Winter)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Some observers in the United States, however, see China’s Asian … These are essential points to bear in mind when considering China’s new ascendance in Asian affairs. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Blue Key 1AC:</span>** </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The U.S. is about to build a naval base on Jeju that would devastate marine and coral habitats </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The Times Record, 10 __(“South Korean Villagers Say ‘No!’ to U.S. Navy Base”, July 2,__</span>[[http://www.timesrecord.com/articles/2010/07/02/opinion/commentaries/doc4c2e2493e0dfe283807936.txt]]__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>__
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__I have recently returned from a weeklong trip to__ … __on the rocks at Pemaquid Point? I bet Mainers would fight to the bitter end.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__And – Jeju Island’s marine biodiversity is uniquely important – destruction of the corals would collapse the ocean ecosystem__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Jeju Weekly, 9 __(November 26,__ </span>[[http://jejuweekly.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=426]]__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>__
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Some of__ Jeju’s treasures are __clearly visible, …. It is not just__ imperative __for environmental reasons, but for tourism, which affects the socio-economics of the local communities.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__And – Destruction of corals not only collapses entire marine ecosystems, but also causes global famine and severe political unrest__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Red Orbit, 10 __(Space, Science, Health & Technology News Source, March 26,__</span>[[http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/]]__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>__
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Coral reefs are slowly becoming extinct and … __who are facing hunger, and this is just going to aggravate the situation. We will not be able to maintain food security around the world."__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__And – Extinction__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Craig, 3 __(Robin Kundis, Associate Professor at Indiana University’s School of Law, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, Lexis)__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for … wherever possible - even if a few fishers go out of business as a result.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__And – The Jeju base will trigger an uncontrollable naval arms race throughout the Asia-Pacific region ensuring conflict.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Cha 10 __(Kyoungeun, Foreign Policy in Focus, “Jeju and a Naval Arms Race in Asia”,__</span>[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/jeju_and_a_naval_arms_race_in_asia]]__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>__
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The Jeju naval base is a likely bone of … could escalate into a naval arms race in the Asia-Pacific region. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__And – A naval arms race in Northeast Asia would guarantee catastrophic miscalculations.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Strait Times 9 __(November 18,__ </span>[[http://www.asianewsnet.net/news.php?id=8691&sec=3]]__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>__
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">A naval arms race __that__ could have …__, he warned:__ "The consequence of the navy's build-up is the increasing probability of accidents __and incidents at sea."__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__And – These are the most probable scenarios for great-power nuclear escalation.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Dibb, 1 (Paul, Professor at the Australian National Universtiy, Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review, Winter, HTTP://WWW.NWC.NAVY.MIL/PRESS/REVIEW/2001/WINTER/ART2-W01.HTM)//__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__The areas of maximum danger and …__// //have shown themselves to be ineffective when confronted with major crises__.__// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__And – A Jeju naval base would collapse peace on the Korean Peninsula.__// </span>
//__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">UNCPD 7 (United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia, May 22, “The establishment of a naval base in Jeju would lead to the militarization on Jeju Island”, </span>__[[http://blog.peoplepower21.org/English/19790]]__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)</span>__// 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__Our concerns that__// //the establishment … of Jeju will help make the __residents' lives and furthermore the__ Korea Peninsula better.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__And – This will destroy the planet__// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Africa News, 99 __(“Third World War: Watch the Koreas”, October 25, Lexis)__// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__If there is one place today … normalising relations with North Korea.__// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__Advantage two: China__// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__Deteriorating relations between the U.S. and China are paving the way for conflict. In particular, strike-group naval exercises in the waters surrounding South Korea guarantee confrontation.__// </span>
//<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Rozoff, 8/16__/2010 (Rick, Author and Geopolitical Analyst, “U.S.-China Conflict: From War of Words to Talk of War”, Eurasia Review,__</span>[[http://www.eurasiareview.com/201008157048/us-china-conflict-from-war-of-words-to-talk-of-war.html]]__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)</span>__// 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Relations between the U.S. and China have been steadily deteriorating __…__The noose is tightening around China and the nation’s military knows it.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__And – These naval exercises doom our ability to influence China’s emergence towards a source of stability and peace in the region. Using our naval presence in South Korea to support a maritime containment strategy of China destroys relations and will dangerously escalate tensions.__// </span>
//<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Reuters, 8/13__/2010 (Chinese Admiral Says U.S. Drill Courts Confrontation,__ </span>[[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67B11W20100813?type=politicsNews]]__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)</span>__// 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//A senior Chinese military strategist called planned U.S. naval … __can see that this carries something of a warning to China," wrote Yang.__// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__And – China’s rise as a regional power is inevitable – the question is whether the U.S. and China cooperate to resolve global problems or compete through adherence to out-dated concepts of deterrence. Only the plan facilitates a healthy, stable relationship that is necessary to avoid all-out war.__// </span>
//<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Yi, 8/13__/2010 (Yang, Rear Admiral and Former Director of the Institute for Strategic Studies at the People’s Liberation Army National Defense University, Cold War Mindset Harms Peace,__ </span>[[http://www.hrana.org/articles.asp]]__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)</span>__// 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//The recent decision by the U__nited__ S__tates__ to involve its … if the two powers really want to avoid confrontation.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__And – Failure to allow China to rise peacefully ensures catastrophic nuclear war.__// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Eland, 5 __(Ivan, Coexisting With A Rising China, April 11, HTTP:__//__WWW.INDEPENDENT.ORG/NEWSROOM/ARTICLE.ASP?ID=1494)__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Instead of emulating the policies of pre-World War I Britain … future catastrophic war or even a nuclear conflagration.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__And – Escalation is guaranteed. US-China war causes extinction.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Straits Times, 2k __(June 25)__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and …. we would see the destruction of civilisation.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__And – Their general impact defense does not apply – despite economic interdependence, naval missteps and miscalculations will ignite major conflict__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Reuters, 8/17__/2010 (“China and U.S. Playing Risky Game on the High Seas”,__ </span>[[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67G10J20100817]]__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>__
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The game of military bluff that China and the U__nited__ S__tates__ … __the People's Daily said in a commentary on Tuesday.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__And – Specifically, sending the USS George Washington aircraft carrier into the yellow sea would collapse Sino-U.S. relations.__ </span>
__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Washington Times 10 (July 21, </span>__[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/jul/21/inside-the-ring-300362848/]]__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>__
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Chinese government and … Sea," __Gen. Zhu said.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__And – Independent of direct U.S.-China war, good relations prevent multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict throughout Asia__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Conable and Lampton, 93 __(Barber B, President Emeritus of the World Bank, David, President of the National Committee, China: the Coming Power, Foreign Affairs, December/January, Lexis)__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Regionally American interests are both numerous and … of the increasing importance the region attaches to building positive ties to the P.R.C.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__And – Bad relations will cause China to militarize space.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Pike, 98 __(John, Director of the Space Policy Project with the Federation of American Scientists, FNS, June 25, Lexis)__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">We live in a real world in which the art of decision making lies not in choosing obvious and … and a critical player in the effort to extend human presence to the Moon, Mars, and beyond. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Extinction.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Mitchell, 1 __(Gordon, Associate Professor of Communication at the University Pittsburgh, Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads, ISIS Briefing, No. 6, July, HTTP://WWW.ISISUK.DEMON.CO.UK/0811/ISIS/UK/BMD/NO6_PAPER.HTML)//__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace … a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.__// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__And – Their deterrence disad is a non-starter. Deterrence will inevitably fail between the U.S. and China – we can either peacefully move away from attempting to deter China now, or we must accept the inevitable, catastrophic collapse of our deterrent relationship in the short-term future.__// </span>
//<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Sayers, 10 __(Eric, Master of Science Candidate in the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies at Nanyang Technological University, “Miliatry Dissuasion: A Framework for Influencing PLA Procurement Trends”, NDU Press,__ </span>[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/military-dissuasion.html]]__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)</span>__// 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//The PLA believes America's ability to project power is … __observed almost a decade ago,__ deterrence __alone__ cannot suffice as the guiding mantra of U.S. defense strategy in the Asia-Pacific.__7__// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Add-Ons </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">North Korea</span>** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Joint naval exercises involving an aircraft carrier cause North Korea to retaliate with nuclear weapons** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Yu, 2010** (Quincy, Staff Writer for the Epoch Times, Tensions Rise as Largest US-South Korea Military exercise Kicks Off, Epoch Times, July 26, http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/content/view/39879/) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The drill is also the first to …. that its aggressive behavior must stop.” </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And – Even limited nuclear use by North Korea guarantees extinction.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Hayes and Hamel-Green, 2010** (Peter, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for security and Sustainable Development, Michael, Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education, and Human Development at Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, Nautilus Institute Special Report 10-001, January 5, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The international community is increasingly ….priority consideration from the international community. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">2ac stuff </span></span>=== 
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">China Adv.</span>** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Their general impact defense does not apply – despite economic interdependence, naval missteps and miscalculations will ignite major conflict.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Reuters, 8/17/2010 (“China and U.S. Playing Risky Game on the High Seas”,</span>[[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67G10J20100817]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__The game of military bluff ….__**Daily said in a commentary on Tuesday. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**US will not retain preeminent naval dominance forever.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**AFP 9 (**AFP, //Associated Press,// 3-22-10, China tells Japan it wants Aircraft Carrier,</span>[[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5i1VgupeIW5R1tIsnjTeUXW8oZlNw|__http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5i1VgupeIW5R1tIsnjTeUXW8oZlNw__]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)DR </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">BEIJING (AFP) — China will not remain …. patrol boat to the region. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The only thing that naval presence deters is good relations with China.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**AFP 9-1 (**Associated Foreign Press, 9-1-10, China Launches War Games in Yellow Sea, </span>[[http://news.smh.com.au/breaking-news-world/china-launches-war-games-in-yellow-sea-20100901-14mxv.html]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)DR </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">China has launched live…. Korea's closest ally and trade partner.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Sending a U.S. aircraft carrier to the Yellow Sea would uniquely trigger conflict  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Hawkins, 2010 (William R., Consultant Specializing in International Economic and National Security Issues, Former Economics Professor and Former Congressional Staff Member, Family Security Matters, July 27,</span>[[http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/id.6857/pub_detail.asp]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__To claim and defend ….__**decisions about where to deploy its forces. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Beijing condemns US Navy presence – heightens tensions and causes retaliation** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Washington Times 8-30 (**Washington Times, //leading American reporting station,// 8-30-10, China to Conduct Live-Ammo Drills in Yellow Sea,</span>[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/aug/29/china-to-conduct-live-ammo-drills-in-yellow-sea/]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)DR </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">BEIJING | China said on Sunday its navy will ….harms me, I must harm them." </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Deployment of the USS George Washington to the Yellow Sea would be seen as particularly aggressive – it’s the key internal link </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">People Forum, 8/6/2010 (</span>[[http://www.peopleforum.cn/viewthread.php?tid=22015]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">As tensions escalate on the Korean ….**will definitely irk Beijing.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Aircraft carrier in the Yellow Sea is key – it would put Beijing in striking distance </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Associated Press, 2010 (August 5, </span>[[http://www.cleveland.com/world/index.ssf/2010/08/chinese_aircraft-carrier-kille.html]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Nothing projects U.S. global ….range of U.S. F-18 warplanes.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Deterrence failure and rise of China inevitable** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Ghani 8-29 (**Rizwan, //author for the Pakistan Observer,// 8-29-10, Time for China’s Blue Water Navy, </span>[[http://pakobserver.net/detailnews.asp?id=49512]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)DR </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Following American Navy’s ….add to China’s naval power.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**US maritime hegemony has failed.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Asia News 9-24 (**Asia News, //Asian News Source, Japan: China: Us: The Senkaku Diaoyu conflict and the end of U.S. supremacy on the seas,// 9-24-10, Japan: China: Us: The Senkaku Diaoyu conflict and the end of U.S. supremacy on the seas ,</span>[[http://www.speroforum.com/site/article.asp?id=40324&t=Japan:++China:++Us:+++The+Senkaku+Diaoyu+conflict+and+the+end+of+U.S.+supremacy+on+the+seas%29DR|http://www.speroforum.com/site/article.asp?id=40324&t=Japan:++China:++Us:+++The+Senkaku+Diaoyu+conflict+and+the+end+of+U.S.+supremacy+on+the+seas)DR]] 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Milan - The recent conflict ….and the beginning of the Chinese? </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**US-China relations threatened by negative campaign politics** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Zeliff 10/24** (Bill, former congressman for the 1st Congressional District, US-China relationship threatened by negative campaign politics, 10/24/10, accessed 10/24/10, </span>[[http://www.nashuatelegraph.com/opinionperspectives/889287-263/us-china-relationship-threatened-by-negative-campaign-politics.html]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Political campaigns bring ….of the U.S.-China relationship. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Jeju Adv.</span>** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Loss of marine biodiversity leads to extinction** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Davidson, founder of the Turtle House Foundation and award-winning Journalist, 2003  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Fire in the Turtle House, p.47-51) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">But surely the Athenians had it ….and just twelve on land.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Consult CP Stuff</span>** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
=====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">//**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Russia</span>**// </span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**//Nonbinding consultation solves best.//** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**//Daily Oklahoman, 01//** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//WITH his arrival in Spain….ruffling some feathers along the way.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**//Russia will say no- will join US naval exercises to deter North Korea//** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**//Reuters, 10//**//,news agency, 5/27/2010, “Russia plans big naval exercise off North Korea”,[[http://uk.reuters.com/article/idUKTRE64Q3KI20100527]]// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Russia will hold large-scale….adequate by the international community."// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
=====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">//**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">NATO</span>**// </span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**NATO will say no- wants US navy participation in annual Russia-NATO drills in the Sea of Japan** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**RIA Novosti, 08**, national-level Russian News Agency, 7/23/08, “Russia to Host FRUKUS-2008 International Naval Exercises”, http://en.rian.ru/russia/20080723/114741533.html </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Russian, U.S., U.K., and French ….destroyer from Russia's Northern Fleet. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**NATO says no- trying to contain China** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Chang, 08**, Andrei, editor in chief of Kanwa Defense Review Monthly, 8/08/2008, “NATO Keeps Eye on China”, http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2008/02/08/Analysis-NATO-keeps-eye-on-China/UPI-29441202506036/ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">NATO is closely watching China's ….n articles published by the Chinese media.  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
=====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">//**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">South Korea</span>**// </span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**South Korea will say no- wants US naval commitment** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Harden, 09**, Blaine, writer for The Washington Post Foreign Service, 6/16/2009, “S. Korea Seeks Assurances From U.S. of Nuclear Shield”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/06/15/AR2009061500944.html </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">As state media in North Korea continued to ….South Korea on imports of U.S. beef. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**South Korea will say no- more naval exercises coming up** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Garamone, 8/19**, Jim, writer for American Forces Press Services, 8/19/2010, “US, South Korea Announce Yellow Sea Exercise”, http://www.navy.mil/search/display.asp?story_id=55421 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The United States and South Korea ….stability on the Korean peninsula." </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**South Korea will say no- naval exercises will continue for months** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Whitlock, 7/19**, Craig, reporter for The Washington Post, 7/19/2010, “U.S., South Korea prepare for naval exercises”, http://voices.washingtonpost.com/checkpoint-washington/2010/07/us_south_korea_prepare_for_nav.html </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">After weeks of feints and indecision, the USS George Washington….Tuesday with South Korean Defense Minister Kim Tae-Young. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
=====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">//**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">China - Minor Mod DA</span>**// </span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Giving China influence on US policy would lead to repeal of new sanctions on North Korea- they hate them** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Ryall and Hutchinson, 7/21**, Julian and Peter, reporters for The Telegraph, 7/21/2010, “US sanctions against North Korea provoke Chinese anger”, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/northkorea/7902684/US-sanctions-against-North-Korea-provoke-Chinese-anger.html </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The United States announced new sanctions….signed at the end of their three-year conflict. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**New sanctions on North Korea key to prevent North Korean prolif** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Lam and Bruce, 8/31**, Sen and Scott, director of US operations at the Nautilus Institute, done by interview on Radio Australia, 8/31/2010, “New US sanctions on North Korea”, http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/asiapac/stories/201008/s2998852.htm </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">US president Barack Obama has ordered new financial …. across the border, severely destabilising China. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**North Korean aggression and nuclearization will cause intentional, miscalculated, or accidental nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war triggers horrific impacts** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10** – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The international community is increasingly …. the international community.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A2: China War Good </span>**</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Turn: Chinese space technologies undermine U.S. hegemony – disrupts balance of power in East Asia and causes Chinese development of ASATs.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Murray and Antonellis ’03// **//(William Murray, analyst at Science Applications International Corporation specializing in East Asia, Robert Antonellis, analyst with the U.S. government, Orbis, “China’s Space Program” Autumn, 2003)//** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**In the near future, the also intends….military forces that depend upon it., 21**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Ground troops are comparatively more important -// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Kim 99//**//—Associate Professor, Institute of Foreign Affairs (Sung, U.S. Military Presence in a Unified Korea, www.cap.lmu.de/transatlantic/download/kim.doc, AMiles)//** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Nevertheless, a drawback of this scenario….could harm U.S.-China relations.**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A2: South Korea Prolif DA </span>**</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//South Korea won’t go nuclear- public opposition.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Yi ‘9// **//(Kiho, Dir. Nautilus Institute of Seoul and Prof. – Hanshin U., The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, “The North Korean nuclear test: The South Korean reaction,” 6-5, [[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-north-korean-nuclear-test-the-south-korean-reaction]])//** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**But back to the domestic response in South Korea. __….. to a practical process of denuclearization__ and disarmament on the Korean Peninsula.**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Plan won’t lead to rearm- we would still have troops near the border to serve as a deterrent against land invasion// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Adams ‘5// **//(Karen Ruth, Associate Prof. IR – U. Montana, and PhD Pol Sci. – UC Berkeley, “New Great Powers: Who Will They Be, and How Will They Rise?”, [[http://www.cas.umt.edu/polsci/faculty/adams/greatpower.pdf]], p. 11)//** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**__Extended deterrence can be ….. effective as deployments of 500,000.42__**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//South Korea views ground troops as key to deterrence because of the direct defense they provide against a DPRK invasion- withdrawal of naval forces is irrelevant to credibility// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Payne et al ’10// **//(Keith, Pres. – National Institute for Public Policy, Prof. and Dept. Head of Graduate Defense and Strategic Studies – Mo. St. U., Chair – Policy Panel of theh US Strategic Command’s Senior Advisory Group, Thomas Scheber, VP – National Institute for Public Policy and former Dir. Strike Policy and Integration – Office of the Sec. Def., and Kurt Guthe, Dir. Strategic Studies – NIPP and former Deputy assistant Sec. Def. for Forces Policy, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia”,[[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf]], p. 11-13)//** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**__The forward presence of U.S. ….. the U.S. commitment to the defense of the ROK__**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Not enough plutonium, economic disincentives – at worst, long-timeframe </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Hughes 7 **- Senior Research Fellow and Deputy Director at the CSGR and teaches the course on the International Relations of Pacific Asia in PAIS (January 2007, Christopher, “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan”, Asia Policy #3, [[http://www.nautilus.org/publications/essays/napsnet/policy-forums-online/security/copy_of_07021Hughes.pdf]]) MGM** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Finally, despite having made impressive …. were to seek nuclear weapons.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Negative </span>__</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Topicality </span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">T-Substantial </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Interpretation – presence refers to the totality of US military power in a country </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Blechman et al, 97 **– President of DFI International, and has held positions in the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget (Barry, Strategic Review, Spring, “Military Presence Abroad in a New Era: The Role of Airpower,” p. 14)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The highly complex nature of ….and sustainment capabilities.”2** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">A substantial reduction in presence requires at least a 50% decrease </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act, 92 **(1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION AT MILITARY …. __reassigned__ and moved to another installation.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">T-Combat Troops </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Interpretation - Presence requires regular, non-combat activities – forces engaged in combat or one-time noncombat missions aren’t part of U.S. presence </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Thomason, 2 **– Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, [[http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf]]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE?….__operation or contingency should call for them__.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">T-Substantial vs. Futenma </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">A. Interpretation – presence refers to the totality of US military power in a country </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Blechman et al, 97 **– President of DFI International, and has held positions in the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget (Barry, Strategic Review, Spring, “Military Presence Abroad in a New Era: The Role of Airpower,” p. 14)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The highly complex nature … infrastructure and sustainment capabilities.”2** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">A substantial reduction in presence requires at least a 50% decrease </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act, 92 **(1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION … reassigned and moved to another installation.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">B. Violation – the affirmative is a minor reduction in presence </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">We have about 3200 troops in Futenma </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Globalsecurity.org no date **– (“Futenma Marine Corps Air Station Okinawa, Japan”,[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/futenma.htm]]) MGM** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**More than 3,200 … helicopters and KC-130 aerial refueling airplanes.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">We have 35,562 troops in Japan </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">DoD 3/31 **(**DoD Active Duty Military Personnel Strengths by Regional Area and by Country **3/31/2010,[[http://siadapp.dmdc.osd.mil/personnel/MILITARY/history/hst1003.pdf]]) MGM** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Kritiks </span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Cap K - vs Mt Hebron </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The affirmative’s act of withdrawal is only a token gesture aimed at making U.S. imperialism seem benign in order to buy of resistance. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Gowan 4 **[Peter, Professor of International Relations at London Metropolitan University, “Triumphing toward International Disaster: The Impasse in American Grand Strategy, Critical Asian Studies,”[[http://www.socialistresistance.co.uk/Triumphing%20toward%20International%20Disaster.pdf]]]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The Problems of Rebuilding …. monetary and financial instabilities.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Increasing the sovereignty of other nations, allows the U.S. to futher capitalism absent direct intervention </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Kiely 5 **(Ray, Professor of International Politics, Queen Mary University of London, UK, Senior Lecturer in Development Studies, SOAS, University of London, The Changing Face of Anti-Globalization Politics: Two (and a Half) Tales of Globalization and Anti-Globalization, Globalizations; May2005, Vol. 2 Issue 1, p134-150, 17p, [[http://web.ebscohost.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=2&hid=9&sid=1f1398b6-fb2d-43d0-8fbf-23531a469b4b%40sessionmgr4]]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**These comments on the ….rights and freedom—is poor.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Capitalism makes extinction inevitable – its focus on growth makes ecological decline inevitable, triggering multiple scenarios for extinction. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Kovel 2 [**Joel, Alger Hiss Professor At Bard, The Enemy of Nature, Zed Books, p. 22-24]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The scenario of ecological collapse…place behind its walls.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative as an instance of capital– only through a radical rejection of the system can we avoid extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Herod 4**(James, author of several books on capitalism, Getting Free, [[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm]])** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**It is time to try to …shape of their social world** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2nc/1nr Impact Calc </span>**</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Take whatever risk of the aff’s impacts you want – the alternative is a prerequisite to life </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Zizek, 2k3 **(Slavoj, professor of sociology, University of L, The Puppet and the Dwarf)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__Insofar as “death” and “life” …. yet drink health like wine.__** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Our humanity must come first </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Raz**, Philosopher,** 1986 **(Joseph,** //**The Morality of Freedom**//**, page 307)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**One way to test the thesis of the …. __being alive can be better than that life__.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2nc/1nr Impact to Environment </span>**</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The way we treat the environment spills over, allowing the destruction of the environment justifies human extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Murray** Bookchin**, co-founder of the Institute of Social Ecology, 1987 ("An Appeal For Social and Psychological Sanity,"** //**The Modern Crisis**//**, Published by Black Rose Books Ltd., ISBN 0920057624, p. 106-108)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Industrially and technologically, we ….reproduce a green and living world.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2nc/1nr Role of the Ballot </span>**</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Changes from within fail - every time we refuse to act within capitalism we put efforts towards strengthening a better system </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**David** Korten**, President of the People-Centered Development Forum, BEYOND THE GLOBAL SUICIDE ECONOMY, June 22,** 2002**, p. http://iisd1.iisd.ca/pcdf/2002/Gobal6Billion.htm.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__The first step is to get clear ….__ employment and investment choices.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Their arguments about alternative solvency are irrelevant - as long as we act as if the alternative solves it will be enough to make it successful </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Zizek 7 **(Slavoj,** //**How to Read Lacan**//**, Ch 2 Empty Gestures and Performatives)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__In spite of all its grounding ….. that is sustained by their continuous activity.__** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Links </span>**</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Withdrawal from Iraq only solidifies Iraq’s place in global capitalism. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Panitch and Gindin 04 (Leo and Sam, Leo is the Canada Research Chair in Comparative Political Economy and a Distinguished Research Professor of Political Science at York University in Toronto. Panitch is also the author of Global Capitalism and American Empire. Sam is the Packer chair in Social Justice, Department of Political Science at York University in Toronto, **[[http://attacberlin.de/fileadmin/Sommerakademie/Panitch.Gindin_Global_Capitalism.pdf]])** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**This could turn out to be a challenge ….historically made it plausible and attractive.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Military presence is no longer used to directly control other nations, new imperialism uses indirect control. The affirmatives withdrawal will solidify new markets absent direct intervention. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Sakellaropoulos 8[**Spyros, Ph.D. in Political Sociology and an Assistant Professor in the Social Policy Department of the Panteion University “American Foreign Policy as Modern Imperialism: From Armed Humanitarianism to Preemptive War,” Science and Society, [[http://www.atypon-link.com.proxy1.cl.msu.edu.proxy2.cl.msu.edu/GPI/doi/pdf/10.1521/siso.2008.72.2.208?cookieSet=1]]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**4.1. Hegemonic Aspects of Current American …. __demonstrations of immigrant workers__ (Koronado and Knopp, 2006).** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Reducing our presence only strengthens U.S. imperialism, just because the plan decrease the number of troops doesn’t make them an anti capitalist effort. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Patnaik 90 **(Prabhat, Eminent and prolific economist who has worked creatively for 40 years at the intersection of Marxian and Keynesian theoretical traditions, professor at the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning in the School of Social Sciences at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. He is currently Vice-Chairman of the Planning Board of the Indian state of Kerala., “Whatever happened to imperialism?,” Monthly Review Foundation, [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1132/is_n6_v42/ai_9101140/?tag=content;col1]])** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**It is unnecessary to go on. The point is not…. and vigor it is displaying at present.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Turns Case </span>**</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Defeating capitalism is the ultimate ethical obligation </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Zizek and Daly 4 **(Slavoj, professor of philosophy at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana, and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek, pg 14-16)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**For Zizek it is imperative that …. Other to that of a 'glitch' in an otherwise sound matrix.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Capitalism is the root cause of biopower </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Internationalist Persepective, 2000 – **staff writer [Issue 36, “Capitalism and Genocide,” Spring – 2000, [[http://www.geocities.com/wageslavex/capandgen.html]]]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Michel __Foucault's concept of ….__of mass death and genocide.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Disads </span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">START DA </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">UNIQUENESS -- WILL PASS – NOW KEY TO ENSURE GOP VOTES. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">AP 6/11 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**A key US Senate committee will vote on a landmark nuclear arms treaty with Russia before lawmakers leave for their monthlong August break, the panel's top two members said Thursday. "We plan to hold a …. the US arsenal.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Obama cannot make meaningful changes to US policy in the Koreas without sacrificing anther part of his overloaded agenda. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Shen, 09 **(Dingli, Professor of International Relations, Executive Dean of the Institute of International Studies at Fudan University in Shanghai, & Director of Center for American Studies at Fudan University, October, “Cooperative Denuclearization toward North Korea”, The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 32 No. 4, pg. 181, FT & RV)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Washington has long viewed North … regards to its nuclear program.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">PC KEY TO START PASSAGE. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Sharp 8/28/09 **(travis, military policy analyst at the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, where he specializes in defense budgeting, military policy, and congressional involvement in national security, [[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/local-priorities-vs-national-interests-arms-control]])** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**While beliefs about national…effort from the White House.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">IMPACT -- START KEY TO SOLVE ACCIDENTS, THEFT, PROLIF AND RELATIONS </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Montreal Gazette 9 </span>
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">. [July 4, “Duck and cover or a world without nukes?” -- </span>[[http://www.montrealgazette.com/story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor]]** 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Still, Blair and many ….buried by them," Blair said.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**T**HE IMPACT IS EXTINCTION. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">American Prospect, 2/26/01 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The bitter disputes over….war by checklist, by rote** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Midterms DA - GDS </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**GOP expected to take over the House** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Politico 9/22 (Bruce J. Schulman, 9/22/10, " GOP has a 'natural' House majority ",</span>[[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0910/42501.html]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)</span>** 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**As the midterm campaign ….lose congressional seats at midterm.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The plan’s a step away from Bush—mobilizes the democratic base in the midterms and they’re key. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Kilkenny 2k9. **Allison, “New poll paints ugly 2010 picture, [[http://trueslant.com/allisonkilkenny/2009/11/29/new-poll-paints-ugly-2010-picture/]]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Two in five. That’s 40 percent …. __won overwhelming victories in both houses__.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Republican majority after the midterms is key to a climate bill – ensures lame duck session, which is the only hope to get democrats to vote for the bill. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Cousins 8/30. **Cousins Farron, senior staff writer for The American Trial Lawyer magazine, and his writings have appeared in publications such as California's Information Press, and Pensacola's Independent Weekly. He has also worked for the Ring of Fire radio program with hosts Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., “WILL CONGRESS RESURRECT THE CLIMATE BILL?,” [[http://www.energyboom.com/policy/will-congress-resurrect-climate-bill]]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**After being declared legally dead ….**__only shot that this climate bill has left.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">A national RPS will establish uniform standards and signal a national commitment to renewable energy that will spillover into other policies and move away from fossil fuels, which is key to stop warming. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Sovacool and Cooper 7. **Ben Sovacool, PhD former Fellow at Oak Ridge national lab and professor at VaTech, and Christopher Cooper, executive director of Network for New Energy Choices (NNEC) a nonprofit focused on expanding energy choices, “Big is Beautiful: The Case for Federal Leadership on National renewable Portfolio Standard” The Electricity Journal vol 20, issue 4 May pg. 48-61** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**While the value of renewable …. answer is clear: big is truly beautiful.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Henderson 6 **[Bill Henderson, environmental scientist, “Runaway Global Warming Denial.” __Countercurrents.org__ August 19, 2006.[[http://www.countercurrents.org/cc-henderson190806.htm]].]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The scientific debate about human …. greenhouse gases leading to ever accelerating global** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Small Businesses DA - Ghill </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Will pass- Voinovich is the key 60th vote- but political capital’s key </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The Hill 9-9-2010 (Jay Heflin, **[[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/801-economy/117907-voinovich-to-support-small-business-bill?page=2#comments]]**) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__Sen. George Voinovich (R-Ohio) ….by the oil-and-gas industry.__** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**(insert link)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Small business lending is key to short-term and long-term economic growth and competitiveness </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Favole 8-30 (Jared, Writer for Dow Jones Newswire, “3rd White House: More Economic Stimulus Measures Coming,” 2010,**[[http://www.automatedtrader.net/real-time-dow-jones/14148/3rd-update-white-house-more-economic-stimulus-measures-coming]]**) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__President Barack Obama on Monday said his economic team ….__Chairman Christina Romer and economic adviser Larry Summers** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Continued economic decline causes global WMD conflict.** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Kerpen 08 (Phil, Policy Director for Americans for Prosperity, National Review, October 28,</span>[[http://www.americansforprosperity.org/afps-phil-kerpen-discusses-financial-crisis-national-review]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)</span>** 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__It’s important that we avoid__ all …. __armed conflicts on an even greater scale__** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">__Tax Cuts DA - UT__ </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Compromise on Tax Cuts in the Lame Duck </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Jeffry Bartash. 11/16**/10. “Geithner Expects Tax Cut Extension Soon” Market Watch http://www.marketwatch.com/story/geithner-sees-deal-on-tax-cuts-soon-2010-11-16?reflink=MW_news_stmp** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) — …competitive America,” he added.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Insert Partisan Link) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">BIPART KEY TO SHORT TERM EXTENSION – PARTISANSHIP RESULTS IN EXPIRATION OF CUTS. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">FINANCIAL TIMES 11-16. **[“Advice for Capitol’s lame ducks” -- http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/f93f9dec-f1b9-11df-bb5a-00144feab49a.html#axzz15XLklTuv]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**On taxes, the …. were not Washington.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">These tax increases would cripple the US and global economies </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Lambro, ’09 **– Chief political correspondent for The Washington Times (Donald, “Critical review missing”, 1/29, Lexis)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**If you've been watching …. Times, is a nationally syndicated columnist.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">That causes nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Mead, 09 **- senior fellow for [[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._foreign_policy|U.S. foreign policy ]]at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, 2/4/09, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger,” [[@http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]] AD 6/30/09)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Frequently, the crisis ….we may still have to fight** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">South Korea Prolif DA </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Withdrawal causes South Korea and Japan to proliferate </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Wimbush 8 **– Director of the Center for Future Security Strategies and Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute (January 2008, S. Enders, “A Parable: The U.S.-ROK Security Relationship Breaks Down”, Asia Policy Number 5, presented at the Korea Institute for Future Strategies,[[http://kms2.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/RESSpecNet/105147/ichaptersection_singledocument/C4F1A704-3F9E-4AEE-B55F-E1ADEB9CFA23/en/2.pdf]]) MGM** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">NOTE: ARTICLE FOLLOWS THE EVENTS THAT WOULD OCCUR POST-WITHDRAWAL. THE EVENTS IN THE ARTICLE HAVE NOT HAPPENED </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__A Russian think-tank__ …. __the country’s nuclear energy requirements__. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**That collapses the NPT** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Einhorn 4 –** Department of State’s Special Advisor for Nonproliferation and Arms Control (2004, Robert, “Will the Abstainers Reconsider”, part of “Nuclear Tipping Point : Why States Reconsider Their Nuclear Choices.”, accessed at Umich ebrary) MGM </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The ones listed above were chosen …. __step toward the tipping point.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Escalates to global nuclear war** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Cirincione, 2k** – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The blocks would fall quickest ….__use of a nuclear weapon since__ 19__45__. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">China DA </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Troops in Japan deter Taiwan invasion** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Ross 2 –** Professor of Political Science, Boston College, and Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies, Harvard University (John, International Security Journal, Fall 2002, Vol. 27, p.79, Muse) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Deterrence could fail if China’s ….__ intervention with Kadena-based U.S. aircraft. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Military exercises are critical to deterrence of China** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Payne, et. al, 10** – Professor in Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University (3/2010, Keith, Thomas Scheber – VP National Institute for Public Policy, Kurt Guthe – Director of Strategic Studies at the National Institute for Public Policy, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,”</span>[[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) MGM </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Military exercises and operations, ….nuclear guarantee will be more direct.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**US-China nuclear war goes global** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Hunkovic 9,** American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, </span>[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__A war between China, Taiwan ….__ other countries will not be considered in this study. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Allied Prolif </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Withdrawal causes rapid allied prolif – intervening actors can’t solve and miscalc outweighs other factors </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Wimbush 8 **– Director of the Center for Future Security Strategies and Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute (January 2008, S. Enders, “A Parable: The U.S.-ROK Security Relationship Breaks Down”, Asia Policy Number 5, presented at the Korea Institute for Future Strategies,[[http://kms2.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/RESSpecNet/105147/ichaptersection_singledocument/C4F1A704-3F9E-4AEE-B55F-E1ADEB9CFA23/en/2.pdf]]) MGM** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">NOTE: ARTICLE FOLLOWS THE EVENTS THAT WOULD OCCUR POST-WITHDRAWAL. THE EVENTS IN THE ARTICLE HAVE NOT HAPPENED </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">What does this parable of …. detriment of nearly everyone. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Escalates to global nuclear war** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Cirincione, 2k** – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The blocks would fall quickest …. a nuclear weapon since 1945. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">India DA </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Plan kills US-Indian Relations – causes South Asian instability and undermines our credibility in India**<span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;">  </span>**]**** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Kaplan 10 **– senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security (8/2010, Robert, “South Asia’s Geography of Conflict,” www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__He or she who sits …. on how we perform in Afghanistan__.** </span>
**<span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span>**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">]</span>**** 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Asia Society Task Force 9 **– (1/2009, “Delivering on the Promise: Advancing US Relations With India”, http://www.asiasociety.org/policy-politics/task-forces/delivering-promise-advancing-us-relations-india) MGM** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__India matters to virtually every ….__ Secretary of Political Affairs R. Nicholas Burns.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Prolif escalates to global nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Cirincione, 2k **– Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The blocks would fall quickest …. __nuclear weapon since__ 19__45__.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Warming causes extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Cummins and Allen 10 **–** *International Director at Organic Consumers Association AND **Policy Advisor at Organic Consumers Association (2/14/2010, Ronnie and Will, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The hour is late. __Leading …., cold, heat, disease, war, and starvation.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">2nc Links - <3 matt marcus</span>** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Afghanistan is key to US-Indian relations – the plan destroys firm US support** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Kulkarni 10** – degree in International Security and Economic Policy from University of Maryland’s School of Public Policy and interned with the Arms Control Association (4/20/2010, Manasi, “US looking to increase Indian role in Afghanistan”, http://india.foreignpolicyblogs.com/2010/04/20/us-looking-to-increase-indian-role-in-afghanistan/) MGM </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The meeting between Prime ….prove that wrong in Afghanistan. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Relations are improving now, but India is waiting to see what Obama does – their change in the Afghanistan strategy destroys relations and our ability to cooperate** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Ganguly 6/14** – professor of political science and holds the Rabindranath Tagore Chair in Indian Cultures and Civilizations at Indiana University, Bloomington (6/14/2010, Sumit, “Indo-US Strategic Dialogue Aftermath: Relations on the Mend?”, http://opinionasia.com/IndoUSDialogue) MGM </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">In early June, the Obama administration …. attentive to each other’s concerns. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Rapid drawdown from Afghanistan before stabilizing the region would devastate US-India relations** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Ure 11-5-2010**(Laurie, http://articles.cnn.com/2010-11-05/politics/india.relations_1_afghanistan-withdrawal-john-mccain-india?_s=PM:POLITICS, Afghanistan withdrawal could imperil US-India relations, McCain warns, CNN National Security Producer) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">If the United States leaves….discussions with military leaders, he said. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Any reduction is perceived as the beginning of a withdrawal strategy** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Riedel and O’Hanlon, 9** - *Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Saban Center for Middle East Policy AND Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy at Brookings (Bruce and Michael, USA Today, 9/24, “Why We Can't Go Small In Afghanistan,” http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0924_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Third, we would likely lose….most might try to beat us to the exit. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A2: Kaplan Sucks</span>** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Kaplan is an expert on foreign affairs- he has written for leading newspapers, was a consultant for the Special Forces and the CIA, and is among the four most widely read authors defining the post-Cold war era.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Center for a New American Security No Date Given** (“Robert Kaplan”, http://www.cnas.org/node/71) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Robert Kaplan, a prolific and influential …. and an abiding concern for the future </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Here’s a more familiar person who makes the exact same claim as Kaplan** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Kissinger 6-25-2010** (http://www.henryakissinger.com/articles/iht062510.html, Henry A. Kissinger served as national security advisor and as secretary of state in the administrations of Presidents Nixon and Ford) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The facile way out is to blame ….or execute its proclaimed goals </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Kaplan is right- defense officials in New Delhi view Afghanistan as a key element of the security of the Indian subcontinent- withdrawal would result in the loss of India as a strategic partner** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Karl 10-5-2010** (“ The Crucible of Afghanistan”, http://india.foreignpolicyblogs.com/tag/obamas-wars/, President of the Asia Strategy Initiative, Received his doctorate in international relations at the University of Southern California, writing his dissertation on the India-Pakistan strategic rivalry) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Sounding an unusual cautionary note, …. U.S.-China balance of power. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Withdrawal DA - Afghan </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Ending counterinsurgency leads to Taliban takeover, causing Afghanistan and Pakistan to collapse, prolif, and nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Kagan and Kagan 9 **- *Resident Scholar and Director, AEI Critical Threats Project, former prof of military history @ West Point AND** military historian (Fredrick W., Kimberly, “Don't Go Wobbly on Afghanistan”, 10/12/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/101110) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__It is very likely that the …. use of nuclear weapons.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**And, premature withdrawal destabilizes Pakistan and collapses US leadership globally. This destroys NATO and prevents efforts to curtail Iranian prolif** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Twining, 9** – Senior Fellow for Asia at the German Marshall Fund of the United States (Dan, “The Stakes of Afghanistan Go Well Beyond Afghanistan”, </span>[[http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__The surreal belief__ in some … our interests nor our values. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">New Ptx DA-Saudi Arms Deal (St. Marks) </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Obama’s pushing the arms deal – despite some opposition it won’t be blocked.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Jerusalem Post 9/21 (Lexis)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**While Baraq's meetings with …. understand it has to accept the political reality.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**[INSERT PLAN COST CAPITAL]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Political capital’s key – especially in an election year.** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Dumke 6 (David T. Dumke, former legislative director for Representative John D. Dingell, 3-15-2006 “Saudi Arabia and Congress: Understanding the Tension” </span>[[http://www.saudi-us-relations.org/articles/2006/ioi/060315-congress-dumke.html]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)</span>** 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Foreign policy is no different ….seeking to bolster their security credentials.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Impact goes one direction – their impacts are empirically denied by past sales, but the most recent request is key to solidify US-Saudi relations. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Forbes 10 **(9/2/10, [[http://www.forbes.com/2010/09/01/saudi-arabia-military-defense-weapons-business-oxford.html]])** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Though a trickle of Saudi purchases …. with Washington for at least another 20 years.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">US-Saudi relations are key to keep oil priced in dollars and maintain US hegemony </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Charles** Shaw**, Editor-in-Chief, June,** 4**, [[http://www.newtopiamagazine.net/content/issue17/features/greenleap.php]]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The second critical issue is that the US …. ends, through revolution or war, US hegemony ends, unless we occupy the oil fields till they run dry.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Collapse of American hegemony causes nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Alexei** Arbatov 7 **corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs, “Is a New Cold War Imminent,” Russia in Global Affairs, No. 2, July-September 2007, [[http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/20/1130.html]]** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**However, the low probability of a new Cold War ….s__everal major capitals of the world.__** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Allied Prolif </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Withdrawal causes rapid allied prolif – intervening actors can’t solve and miscalc outweighs other factors </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Wimbush 8** – Director of the Center for Future Security Strategies and Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute (January 2008, S. Enders, “A Parable: The U.S.-ROK Security Relationship Breaks Down”, Asia Policy Number 5, presented at the Korea Institute for Future Strategies, </span>[[http://kms2.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/RESSpecNet/105147/ichaptersection_singledocument/C4F1A704-3F9E-4AEE-B55F-E1ADEB9CFA23/en/2.pdf]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) MGM </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**NOTE: ARTICLE FOLLOWS THE EVENTS THAT WOULD OCCUR POST-WITHDRAWAL. THE EVENTS IN THE ARTICLE HAVE NOT HAPPENED** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**What does this parable of …. detriment of nearly everyone.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Escalates to global nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Cirincione, 2k **– Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The blocks would fall quickest …. a nuclear weapon since 1945.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Heg DA </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Regional states’ confidence in the U.S. commitment is key to East Asian stability and U.S. global leadership – the impact is rapid Japan remilitarization, Taiwan conflict and instability in India-Pakistan and Korea** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Goh, 8** – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database ) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The centrality of these mutual….appear to be much worse. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**This causes great power nuclear conflict** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Gray, 5** – Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” http://www.carlisle.army. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">6. Interstate War, Down….for war: “fear, honor, and interest.”23 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Russia Relations DA </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**US-Russia relations are higher than ever** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**LeVine, 6/23** (Steve, contributing editor at Foreign Policy, “The beginning of a beautiful friendship (maybe)”, 6/23/10, Accessed 9/9/10, http://oilandglory.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/23/the_beginning_of_a_beautiful_friendship_maybe) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">When the Obama administration's….be part of reset, he said. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**(Insert Link)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**US-Russian relations are key to solve prolif, energy insecurity, terrorism, disease, and global warming** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Graham 8** – former foreign service officer on academic leave with RAND in Moscow, previously had several assignments in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, including head of the Political/Internal Unit and acting political counselor, he worked on Russian/Soviet affairs as a member of the policy planning staff of the State Department and as a policy assistant in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, has a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University and a B.A. in Russian studies from Yale University (July 2008, Thomas, “US-Russian Relations: Facing Reality Pragmatically”, CSIS, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080717_graham_u.s.russia.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">What trends? Simply put, ….lasting security and economic structures. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Extinction** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Cummins and Allen 10** – *International Director at Organic Consumers Association AND **Policy Advisor at Organic Consumers Association (2/14/2010, Ronnie and Will, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The hour is late. Leading climate ….heat, disease, war, and starvation.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Links - Counter Narcotics </span>**</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Russia hates our ending of drug operations </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Wingfield-Hayes 10 **(Rupert, writer for BBC, Russia blames Nato for heroin surge from Afghanistan, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/8540726.stm, 2/27/10, MM)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The head of Russia's federal …. whom are addicted to heroin.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Russia hates when the US lacks on drugs </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">BBC 09 **(leader in world news, Russian anger over Afghan drugs, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/8319585.stm, 10/21/09, MM)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Russia is highlighted as …. heroin production in Afghanistan.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Kills relations </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Voice of Russia 10 **(renowned Russian newspaper, Russia expects NATO to step up drug war in Afghanistan, http://english.ruvr.ru/2010/09/01/18212906.html, 9/1/10, MM)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Russia expects NATO …. “has dragged on too long”.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Nato DA </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">NATO’s credibility is at a crossroads – sustaining the COIN mission in Afghanistan is key to maintain the alliance </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Morelli and Belkin 9 **– *section research manager AND** analyst in European Affairs (12/3/2009, Vincent and Paul, “NATO in Afghanistan: A Test of the Transatlantic Alliance”, Congressional Research Center, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33627.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">NATO’s mission in Afghanistan….2001 invasion of Afghanistan.3 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**NATO key to prevent multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Jackson 99** – President of the US Committee on NATO (4/23/1999, Bruce, Policy Review, http://www.policyreview.org/apr99/jackson_print.html) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">NATO is at the center ….expenditures at near wartime levels. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Link - Counter Narcotics</span>** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**NATO is engaged in counternarcotics now – only a risk of a link** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**NATO HQ 9** – (“NATO’s support to counter-narcotics efforts in Afghanistan”, http://www.nato.int/isaf/topics/factsheets/counter-narcotics-factsheet.pdf) MGM </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The Afghan Ministry of Interior….narcotics networks’ ability to operate. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Ending counternarcotics in Afghanistan ditches NATO** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Pothier no date** – director of Carnegie Europe (“Reframing Counter-narcotics Policy in Afghanistan”, House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee, Carnegie Endowment, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/?fa=view&id=23024) MGM </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Political will is the real …. an effective Afghan capacity. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Counterplans </span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Russia + NK War CP </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Text: The United States federal government should** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**-establish and publicly portray a willingness to engage North Korea diplomatically in a reciprocal process** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**-convince other regional actors to participate in a multilateral security solution with negotiations being open and scheduled on a continuous basis.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**-offer Russia the mediator role** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**This solves Korean War better than the aff and avoids the (deterrence/economy) DA** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Kinne 4 – US Army Colonel (5/3/2004, Gary, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea”, US Army War College Strategy Research Project,</span>[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) MGM</span>** 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__The U__nited __S__tates, __through its …. and potential world super power.__** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The CP also brings Russia to the table, solving Russian relations and Korean tensions** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Toloraya, 8 –** diplomat with the rank of Minister and Director of Korean Programs at IMEMO, the top Russian Foreign Ministry official in charge of the Korean peninsula, Doctor of Economy and a Full Professor degree in Oriental Studies (Georgy, //Asian Perspective**,**// **“**THE SIX PARTY TALKS: A RUSSIAN PERSPECTIVE”, ProQuest) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__The real root of the controversy, as …. might have much wider global implications__.53** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Econ internal net benefit</span>** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Continued presence is key to the US economy** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Kinne 4** – US Army Colonel (5/3/2004, Gary, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea”, US Army War College Strategy Research Project, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691) MGM </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Strategic withdrawal of …. into the global marketplace. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Economic collapse cause global nuke war** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**O’Donnell, 9** (2/26/09, Sean, “Will this recession lead to World War III?” http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III ) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Could the current economic …. history repeats itself. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Consult Russia </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Russia will say yes—benefits of cooperation outweigh benefits of opposition** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Simes ‘3** (Dmitti – President of the Nixon Center – FDCH Political Testimony, 9/30) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__For this Commission's purposes ….unavoidable differences on other issues.__** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The net benefit is relations—** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Relations are failing** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Sheftsova 6-16 (**Lilia, //Senior Associate, Russian Domestic Politics and Political Institutions Program, Moscow Center,// 6-16-2010, It Takes Two to Reset, </span>[[http://www.carnegie.ru/publications/?fa=41036]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)DR </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__The Kremlin is willing…. effect of what was intended.__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Binding veto power is critical to prevent relations from collapsing. Only the counterplan solves—non-binding consultation is inevitable through the NRC, but viewed as insufficient by Kremlin.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**International Herald Tribune ‘7** (4/5, </span>[[http://www.iht.com/articles/2007/03/05/news/russia.php]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**"Our response to that is, if that is their view, then __…. which their concerns were not weighed.__** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**US-Russian relations are key to reorient Russian military power and check Russia-China nuclear war.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Newsweek ’95** (Michael Elliot, “Why Russia Still Matters to America,” May 15, Lexis) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**"__Russia__," says Deputy Secretary of State….economic development and the rest.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Russia-China war kills hundreds of millions and ends in extinction.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Sharavin ‘1** (Alexander – director of the Institute for Military and Political Analysis – What the Papers Say, October 3,</span>[[http://www.cdi.org/russia/johnson/5470.html]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Chinese propaganda has constantly …. yet available to the Russian Armed Forces!** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__Russia may face the "wonderful" ….possible__** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__nuclear winter.__** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Jungle CP </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The United States federal government should renegotiate the Agreement Between the Government of Japan and the Government of the United States of America Concerning the Implementation of the Relocation of III Marine Expeditionary Force Personnel and Their Dependents from Okinawa to Guam to relocate non- Jungle Warfare Training Center United States Marine Corps presence from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Okinawa’s JWTC is the only jungle warfare training center in the world – key to contingency training** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Ryan D.** Libbert**,** Marine Corporal, 2-22-2004, “Okinawa’s jungle premiere training,” Global Security,</span>[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2004/02/mil-040222-mcn01.htm]] 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Marines serving on Okinawa take ….hone our own basic skills to keep this place strong." </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**US jungle war training is key to fight drug trafficking in Colombia – solves regional instability and Latin American democracy** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Lieutenant Colonel Thomas J.** Comodeca United States Army THE NEED FOR SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES INVOLVEMENT IN THE ANDEAN REGION’S COUNTER DRUG EFFORTS April 7, 2003 accessed July 31, 2010 </span>[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA415480]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Donnie// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//The US must continue to use SOFs ….while protecting democracy in the region today.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//*Note: SOF = Special Operations Forces *// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Failure of Latin American democratization causes regional proliferation and nuclear conflict**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Donald// **//Schulz//**//, Chairman of the Political Science Department at Cleveland State University, March 2000, The United States and Latin America: Shaping an Elusive Future, p. 3&26-28, [[http://stinet.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA375197&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//In short, democracy and economic integration …. different blocs or coalitions in the hemisphere.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Tribes CP - Afghanistan</span>** </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Text: The United States federal government should** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**-alter the counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan to focus on protecting tribes and other local actors, cooperating with them, and helping to establish “community watch” programs.**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**-substantially increase its end strength and incorporate dedicated pay raises and retention bonuses for the armed forces**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**-not abide by the withdrawal deadline**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**-discontinue public apologies concerning the war effort in Afghanistan and should forcefully denounce claims of exaggerated civilian and troop deaths by highlighting heroic aspects of U.S. military presence in Afghanistan**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**-discontinue jamming Taliban-controlled broadcasts**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**The counterplan gets the tribes on board which is empirically the only way to achieve stability – creates popular support for the central government and organizes additional people to fight the insurgents.**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Jones 9**// //– [Seth G., political scientist at the RAND corporation and professor at Georgetown, author of “Graveyard of Empires: America’s War in Afghanistan,” “Going Local: The Key to Afghanistan The U.S.’s strategy of building a centralized state is doomed to fail in a land of tribes,” Wall Street Journal, August 7, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204908604574336402390524212.html]// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//The reality, then, is that …. __with the central government.__// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Substantially increasing pay will easily expand quality recruits**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Henderson 6**// //(JD, lawyer and former Army non-commissioned officer who majored in military history at Clemson, Message sent to the “Intel Dump” blog, 4/28, [[http://www.intel-dump.com/posts/1146050299.shtml]])// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__We could DOUBLE the….__republic we should ALL pay something.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">2nc CP Solvency</span>** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**The CP gets the tribes on board – this destroys Al Qaeda and the Taliban, stabilizes Pakistan, and solves overstretch**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Ackerman quoting an unnamed former CIA counterterrorism operative, 10 –**// //*American national security reporter AND served in Afghanistan and Pakistan and reports to top military officials (5/13/2010, Spencer, “A CIA COINdinista’s Misgivings on Counterinsurgency in Afghanistan”, http://washingtonindependent.com/84811/a-cia-coindinistas-misgivings-on-counterinsurgency-in-afghanistan) MGM// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__The best strategy for Afghanistan …. that could incubate another 9/11.__// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Empirics are on our side – the most successful dynasties in Afghanistan emphasized the local. All of their “losing the war” arguments are reasons why the status quo fails**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Jones 9 –**// //[Seth G., political scientist at the RAND corporation and professor at Georgetown, author of “Graveyard of Empires: America’s War in Afghanistan,” “Going Local: The Key to Afghanistan The U.S.’s strategy of building a centralized state is doomed to fail in a land of tribes,” Wall Street Journal, August 7, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204908604574336402390524212.html]// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//The rapidly deteriorating situation ….Karzai on his 2008 visit to Afghanistan.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**The CP turns the public against the Taliban**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Jones 9 – [**Seth G., political scientist at the RAND corporation and professor at Georgetown, author of “Graveyard of Empires: America’s War in Afghanistan,” “Going Local: The Key to Afghanistan The U.S.’s strategy of building a centralized state is doomed to fail in a land of tribes,” Wall Street Journal, August 7, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204908604574336402390524212.html]// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__After the overthrow of the Taliban….__September 11, 2001 attacks.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**And even people who think a large presence is bad agree that engaging tribes is critical**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**FPIF 2/17 –**// //[David Castonguay, contributor, foreign policy in focus, “In Praise of Warlords,” 2010, http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords]// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//The United States helped develop and ….__structure will remain incoherent.__// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">2nc Solves Overstretch</span>** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Counterplan results in tribal forces filling in for the U.S. – solves overstretch** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Jones 9 –**// //[Seth G., political scientist at the RAND corporation and professor at Georgetown, author of “Graveyard of Empires: America’s War in Afghanistan,” “Going Local: The Key to Afghanistan The U.S.’s strategy of building a centralized state is doomed to fail in a land of tribes,” Wall Street Journal, August 7, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204908604574336402390524212.html]// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__Strengthening security from the ….central government or outside armies__.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">2nc Solves Pakistan</span>** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**The counterplan results in tribes protecting the border which prevent insurgents from taking over Pakistan**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Miniter and Gorka 9 –**// //[Richard Miniter is a writer of several bestselling books on terrorism, Dr. Sebestian Gork is a member of the Strategic Advisers' Group of the Atlantic Council of the United States and Military Affairs Fellow with the Foundation for Defense of Democracies]// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//As strategists and commentators….other group than they do about you.”// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
====<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">2nc Pay Raises</span>** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The counterplan substantially increases troops and their morale – solves overstretch** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Chu 1** – [David, under secretary of defense, “Personnel and Readiness,” July 18, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2001_hr/01-07-13chu.htm </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Competitive pay is clearly one …. the advantage provided by top-caliber people. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Pay raises and cash bonuses empirically work** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**NYT 6** – [Thom Shanker, “Army and Other Ground Forces Meet '06 Recruiting Goals,” Oct 10, http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9902E6DA1330F933A25753C1A9609C8B63 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">One year after the Army….military service by young Americans. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Information Release CP - Depleted Uranium Bullets </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**CP text: The United States federal government, specifically the Department of Defense, should demonstrate its proactive behavior by publically releasing information on the locations of Depleted Uranium munitions.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**CP solves 100% of the 1ac—their 1ac solvency evidence. Only CP solves Genocide post withdrawal 1ac cross-x proves** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Fahey 04** (Dan Fahey has a masters in IR from Tufts University, March 24 2004, “Unresolved Issues Regarding Depleted Uranium And the Health of U.S. Veterans of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom,” online: http://www.wise-uranium.org/pdf/duunris.pdf, MBIBAS) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">DoD has withheld information …. information publicly available. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Heg Debate</span>** </span>== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Heg Bad - US China War - Michael McCutie cut these :D</span>** </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**US heg causes a US-China war and a rivalry**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Kliman ’10**// //(// Dr. Daniel M. Kliman is a visiting fellow at the Center for a New American Security, where he contributes to the Asia-Pacific Security Program and other initiatives. He is also completing a book on how to navigate the rise of new power, //America's Enduring Challenge: Maintaining International Order, [[http://www.cnas.org/node/4809]], 8/4/10, DA: 8/11/10, MM)// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__The emergence of new …. in a full-blown U.S.-China rivalry__.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Extinction**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Straits Times, 2000**// //[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 25, LN, DA:8/12/10]// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat ….interview given to the Chinese press.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">//<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Heg Bad/Heg Solvency Takeout - Coordination Failures - also mccue...</span>// </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**It’s empirically proven- US heg causes coordination failures- this accesses every impact**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Kliman ’10**// //(// Dr. Daniel M. Kliman is a visiting fellow at the Center for a New American Security, where he contributes to the Asia-Pacific Security Program and other initiatives. He is also completing a book on how to navigate the rise of new power, //America's Enduring Challenge: Maintaining International Order, [[http://www.cnas.org/node/4809]], 8/4/10, DA: 8/11/10, MM)// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__Another danger is the …. hallmark of good leadership__.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">//<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Heg Bad - Disease</span>// </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Hegemony causes disease spread// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Fidler 04**// //Professor of Law and Ira C. Batman Faculty Fellow, Indiana University School of Law Bloomington (David, “Fighting the Axis of Illness: HIV/AIDS, Human Rights, and U.S. Foreign Policy” Harvard Human Rights Journal, Vol 17, Spring 04)// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//The hegemony and human rights ….__mobility, and globalization.__// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//Extinction// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//John D.// **//__Steinbruner__//**//, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution, “Biological Weapons: A Plague Upon All Houses,” FOREIGN POLICY n. 109, Winter 1997/19//**//__98__//**//, pp. 85-96, ASP.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//It is a considerable comfort ….//**//__f__//**//or the species as a whole.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">//<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">Heg Bad - Power Wars</span>// </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Hegemony causes extended deterrence break downs and nuclear war**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**__LAYNE__**// //(Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M)// **//__’06__//** //[Christopher, __The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to Present,__ Cornell University Press (Ithica), p. 169// wyo-tjc] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Proponents of U.S. hegemony__ __….__ in Eurasian conflicts by its alliance commitments. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Heg Bad - Prolif </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**First, hegemony creates security vulnerabilities, increasing nuclear proliferation** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__JERVIS__ (Prof. Of Int’l Politics at Columbia) **__’03__** [Robert, “The Compulsive Empire”, __Foreign Policy__, Jul/Aug, p. asp //wyo-tjc]// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//__The United States is the strongest….__might be in the Pentagon's gun sights.// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**Second, new horizontal proliferation risks several scenarios for nuclear war**// </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">//**__TOTTEN__**// //(Assoc. Professor at University of Arkansas)// **//__’94__//** //[Samuel, The Widening Circle of Genocide, p. 289// wyo-tjc] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">There are numerous dangers inherent …. assistance of a renegade government. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">*Advantage Frontlines </span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">__Korean War__ </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**. Kim Jong-il is rational and won’t risk suicidal war – risk of war is extremely low** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Marshall 9 –** Asia Political Risk Correspondent (10/27/2009, Andrew, “Why it's sane for Kim Jong-il to be crazy”</span>[[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE59Q0BE20091027]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">For those who see ….him to throw away his best cards. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**2. War won’t escalate –Empirics and experts** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Strobel and Landay 5/25** – *Foreign affairs correspondent AND **Reporter (5/25/2010, Warren and Jonathan, “Will North Korea's saber rattling lead to war?”, [[http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/05/25/94820/will-north-koreas-saber-rattling.html#ixzz0ycjuaAZf]]) MGM** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Still, Brown and other former top ….Korean presidential residence, the Blue House.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">3. Turn –No more provocations – deterrence is working. Also, war won’t escalate – empirics </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Interview with Admiral Willard 7/20 **– (7/20/2010, “Presenter: Pentagon Press Secretary Geoff Morrell, Commander, U.S. Pacific Command Adm. Robert Willard and a Senior Defense Official”, [[http://www.defense.gov/transcripts/transcript.aspx?transcriptid=4657]]) MGM** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Q And do you believe that ….** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**attempting to change the behavior of North Korea.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">6 Party Talks </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**No six party talks even after U.S. withdrawal – sunken South Korean ship prevents** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific 10 (“South Korea says nuclear talks not possible if North linked to ship sinking”, 4/20/10, Accessed through LexisNexis, DA: 7/19/10)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**SEOUL, April 20 (Yonhap) - The resumption ….its actions," he told the briefing.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**North Korea enters six-party talks only to shift attention away from sunken South Korean ship – no real interest** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Global Security Newswire ‘10 (“North Korea to Again Meet With U.N. Command”, 7/19/10, DA: 7/19/10, Online:</span>[[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100719_1830.php]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">)</span>** 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Seoul's Unification Ministry wrote in a …. incident," he said in a television interview.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**North Korea is developing nuclear weapons for its own sake – will never come to six-nation efforts** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Greg Torode is the Chief Asia Correspondent at South China Morning Post 09 (“A policy adrift; Despite its might, the US Navy is no match for Pyongyang's rust-bucket cargo fleet”, 6/24/09, South China Morning Post, Accessed through LexisNexis, DA: 7/19/10)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Mainland ports are far more likely to ….to give up its nuclear weapons."** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Biodiversity </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Biodiversity isn’t key to survival** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Calgary Herald, August 30, 1997** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Ecologists have long maintained that …. against ecological collapse__."__** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Species loss is inevitable: they can’t solve all causes** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**New Straits Times (Malaysia), February 4**, 2001 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Malaysia's Bachelor of Science …. and even over population."** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Ecosystems are resilient: they won’t collapse** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Tony** Meacham**, research analyst and journalist, 19**97**, How the Tiger Lost Its Stripes** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Before such apocalyptic imagery ….. times more powerful than Krakatoa.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Patriarchy </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Patriarchy isn’t the root cause of war – blaming it deters investigations into more likely causes </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Barbara Ehrenreich, journalist, former Professor of Journalism at UC-Berkeley, 1997, Blood Rites, p. 232. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">In trying to understand what war is, we ….which really does have “a life of its own”? </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**War is no longer associated with masculinism – proves their alt can’t solve it** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Barbara Ehrenreich**, journalist, former Professor of Journalism at UC-Berkeley, 1997, Blood Rites, p. 231 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">But the inclusion ….without human direction or supervision.” </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Changing conceptions of gender doesn’t solve militarism** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Michael Lind,** the Whitehead Senior Fellow at the New America Foundation, Of Arms and Women, January 20, 2005, online:</span>[[http://feminism.eserver.org/of-arms-and-the-woman.txt]] 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">This recurrent focus on …. counsel and study war no more. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Enloe concludes neg – aff does nothing to solve gender** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Enloe 93 –** Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley (Cynthia Enloe, “The Morning After: Sexual Politics at the End of the Cold War” p. 150, MT) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">There is no evidence ….catering to soldiers are motivated by profit. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
===<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">South Korea Prostitution </span></span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Prostitution in South Korea is decreasing. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Dujisin ’09**, “Prostitution Thrives with US Military Presence, [[http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=47556]], Zoltan Dujisin, staff writer for IPS, July 7, 2009, DA: 8/9/10, MLH** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**There has been a reduction in prostitution ….them is difficult given they enjoy a special legal status since 1945.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Prostitution down – crackdowns and training check. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Stars & Stripes ’10 **“Prostitution crimes down among troops in S. Korea”, Ashley Rowland, September 26, 2008,[[http://www.stripes.com/news/prostitution-crimes-down-among-troops-in-s-korea-1.83440]], DA: 8/9/10, MLH** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**SEOUL — As South Korea continues a nationwide …., home to the headquarters for the U.S. military in South Korea.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Economic conditions for Korean women are improving. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Hughes No date </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Donna M Hughes, PhD University of Rhoode Island, Katherine Y. Chon and Derek P Ellerman co-founders of the Polaris Project, “Modern-Day Comfort Women: The US Military, Transnational Crime, and the Trafficking of Women”, Ch. 11, International Sex Trafficking of Women and Children: Understanding the Global, DA: 7/8/10, MLH** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**In the last decade, the economic ….Russian (Union of Women’s Social Organizations, n.d.).** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The closing of bases reverses this. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Hughes No date </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Donna M Hughes, PhD University of Rhoode Island, Katherine Y. Chon and Derek P Ellerman co-founders of the Polaris Project, “Modern-Day Comfort Women: The US Military, Transnational Crime, and the Trafficking of Women”, Ch. 11, International Sex Trafficking of Women and Children: Understanding the Global, DA: 7/8/10, MLH** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**For decades, Filipina women have been …. in when the U.S. military bases were in the Philippines.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">And, our impacts are NOT constructed – DPRK rhetoric proves our arguments </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Wallace 4 **– Colonel of the US army (Joseph K., 5/3, “TRANSFORMING DETERRENCE ON THE KOREAN PENINSULA”,[[@http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA423758&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]) *note: the footnotes from 1 and 2 are from Homer T. Hodge, a Senior Intelligence Officer for Asia at the US Army National, footnote 3 is from the DPNK news agency** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Throughout the 50-year alliance the United ….fight against the United States.”3** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
=<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Tournaments </span>__</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">GDS </span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2nrs: Cap, ptx/cp, ptx/case </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="height: 9pt; width: 8.25pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Blue Key </span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Round 1--** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**1nc:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**T substantial** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Saudi Arms DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Cap K** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Allied Prolif DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Biodiversity (Case)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Patriarchy (Case)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Block:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Cap K** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Allied Prolif DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Biodiversity** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Patriarchy** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2nr: </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Cap K </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Round 4--** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**1nc:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Saudi Arms DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Jungle CP** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Futenma CP** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Allied Prolif DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Biodiversity (Case)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Warming (Case)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Japan-US Alliance (Case)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Block:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**debate ended after the 2ac** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Round 5--** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**1nc:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Allied Prolif** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Corea PIC** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Prostitution CP** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Framework** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Structural violence (case)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Prostitution (case)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Imperialism (case)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**block:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Allied Prolif** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Framework** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Corea PIC** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2nr: </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Corea PIC </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">University of Texas </span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Round 1-- Afghanistan Aff (Heg and LCS)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**1nc:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Tribes CP w/ heg plank and w/ LCS plank** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Withdrawal DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**India DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**x-tra T** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Case** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**block:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Tribes CP** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**India DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**xtra T** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Case** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2nr: </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">X-tra T </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Round 4-- Japan Okinawa (Self Defense Force and Alliance)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**1nc:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Alliance CP** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Tax Cuts ptx DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Japan Prolif DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Case** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Block:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Everything** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2nr: </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Heg Bad Turns </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Round 6--Afghanistan (Heg, Pakistan)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**1nc:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**India DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Tribes CP** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**withdrawal DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Plan Flaw/PIC** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Case** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**block:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**India DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Tribes CP** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Case** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2nr: </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">CP and DA w/ a tiny bit of case on heg </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">University School Sunvitational </span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Round 2 vs COIN (Heg and Insurgency)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**1nc:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**India DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Tribes CP** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Withdrawal DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Case (Heg Bad Turns and Insurgency defense)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Block:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**India DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Tribes CP** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Case** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2nr: </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Heg Bad turns </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Insurgency defense </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Round 4 vs DUBs (Genocide)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**1nc:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**T-Substantial** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Information Release CP** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Nato DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Case** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Block:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Everything** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2nr: </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">T-Substantial </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Semis vs South Korea (Korean War, Arms Sales, Prolif)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**1nc:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**North Korean War CP w/ Economy internal net benefit** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Heg DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Deterrence DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Case** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Block:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Everything** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2nr: </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">CP w/ internal net benefit </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Deterrence DA </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Crestian Classic </span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Round 2 vs Afghanistan COIN (Heg and Insurgency)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**1nc:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Tribes CP** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**India DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Nato DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Case** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Block:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Tribes CP** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**India DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Case** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2nr: </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Tribes CP and India DA </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Round 4 vs Gulliver Counter Narcotics (Small Scale Producers and Large Scale Producers)** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**1nc:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**T-Substantial** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Nato DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Russia DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Case** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Block:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Case** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Nato DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Russia DA** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2nr: </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Case and Russia DA** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span></span></span>