=[[#_Toc149669675]]= 
**Contention 1: Inherency.**

**The U.S.’s increased targeted killings are unprecedented globally.**
**Branfman, 10.** (Fred, editor of “Voices From the Plain of Jars: Life Under an Air War” (Harper & Row, 1972), exposed the U.S. secret air war while living in Laos from 1967 to 1971. “Why General Petraeus’ Assassination Inc. Threatens Us All” Global Research. <
http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=20794>)

What is unprecedented...officially at war


=[[#_Toc149669676]]= 

**Thus the plan: The United States Supreme Court should rule that targeted killing missions in Afghanistan are in violation of International Law.**


=[[#_Toc149669677]]= 

**Contention 2: Soft Power**

**International Law is crumbling now.**
**Paulus, 04.** (Andreas, assistant professor at Ludwig-Maximillians Universitat Munchen. Counsel of Germany in La Grande case. “From Neglect to Defiance? The United States and Intenational Adjudication.” European Journal of International Law. <http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=803772>)

What explains the shift in...not outright hostility.



**US targeted killings violate international law, using technology such as drones.**
**Alston, 10.** ( Philip, Professor of Law and co-Director of the Center for Human Rights and Global Justice at New York University School of Law, UN Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial executions in 2004 “UN expert criticizes "illegal" targeted killing policies and calls on the US to halt CIA drone killings” United Nations Human Rights Council, June 2nd < http://reliefweb.int/rw/rwb.nsf/db900sid/EGUA-862QK3?OpenDocument>)

"Targeted killings pose ...prevent extrajudicial executions."




**US disobedience of international law means global spillover.** 
**Alston, 10.** ( Philip, Professor of Law and co-Director of the Center for Human Rights and Global Justice at New York University School of Law, UN Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial executions in 2004 “UN expert criticizes "illegal" targeted killing policies and calls on the US to halt CIA drone killings” United Nations Human Rights Council, June 2nd < http://reliefweb.int/rw/rwb.nsf/db900sid/EGUA-862QK3?OpenDocument>)

A t﻿argeted killing﻿ is the intentional...States in the future



<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> **US adherence to I-Law is key to other nations increasing human rights, reducing violence, and preventing conflict escalation.** </span></span>
**Seita, 05.** 
<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 24px;">(Alex, M.B.A., Stanford; J.D., Stanford. Professor of Law, Albany Law School of Union University. “Globalization and the Convergence of Values.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 24px;">Cornell International Law Journal</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 24px;"> (1997) 429-491. < http://www.cisg.law.pace.edu/cisg/biblio/seita.html#*>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> </span>




<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The process of **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">converging values...</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 11px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 16px;">principles are important decisions.</span></span>




**Humanized international law—far from being a western construct—is a tool of liberation of all peoples—International law key to stop extinction from nuclear war, ethnic violence, and environmental destruction**





**[[#_Toc265314358]]** 


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">[Marcus, Co-founder of the Institute for Policy Studies and Professor of Public Policy at Georgetown, “Re-framing international law for the 21st century: The International Law of Reconstruction,” 9 Transnat'l L. & Contemp. Probs. 513, lexis]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Like law itself, international ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">merely to a particular group.</span>




<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">2 IMPACT SCENARIOS:</span>
<span class="cite">**1. Adhering to I-Law solves resentment towards US military, encourages leadership through soft power, and prevents counterbalancing.**</span>
<span class="cite">**Sadat 5**</span> (Leila Nadya, Henry Obserschelp Professor of Law at the Washington University in St. Louis, 4. Wash. U. Global Stud. L. Rev. 329, Lexis) 
America's preoccupation with foreign affairs...Williams, the organizer, reportedly replied: "e-mail." [[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1277328085141&returnToKey=20_T9613899546&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.440465.10452261847#n25|n25]]




**offshore balancing won’t solve, but strong US leadership can reduce the negative effects and deter rivals.**


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kagan and Kristol</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">2000</span>** (Robert and William, Senior Associate at Carnegie, Washington Post, March 19)</span>
It is fair to ask how the rest of the world would respond...should we fail to create such a deterrent.


2. A renewed commitment to international liberalism is key to a cooperative international environment that prevents great power wars, environmental collapse and disease spread
Deudney and Ikenberry 9 (Daniel and John, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University and Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton, "The Myth of Autocratic Revivial: Why Liberal Democracy Will PRevail," Foreign AFfairs, Jan/Feb, Vol. 88, Issue 1, EBSCO))


TWO decades of post-Cold War liberal triumph...states regardless of regime type


**Unchecked disease spread will cause extinction**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Yu 09</span>** [Victoria, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” Dartmouth Journal of Undergraduate Science, May 22, http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]</span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">In the past,...</span></span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">human-viable strain.</span></span>**




Extinction
Tickell 8 (Oliver. The Guardian. [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/profile/olivertickell]]
)

We need to get prepared ...undoubtedly die.





**Absent effective international law – nuclear war is inevitable**
**Damrosch and Mullerson 95** (Professor of Law, Columbia, Professor of International Law, King’s, Beyond Confrontation, International Law for the Post Cold War Era, p. 2-3)


The contemporary world ...norms of international law.



=1AC- STABILITY= 

Contention 3: Assassinating the Hearts and Minds of the People


**1. Failing policies of the Afghan and US government are strengthening the Taliban now.**
**WSJ, 9/10.** (“Karzai Divides Afghanistan in Reaching Out to Taliban” Wall Street Journal. <http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703720004575476913015061570.html>)

The home of legendary Northern Alliance...not living in Afghanistan."


**January drone strikes bring Pakistan to the brink of war**
**UPI, 1/3/10.** (United Press, Inc. “U.S. Drone strikes unpopular in Pakistan” Special Reports < http://www.upi.com/Top_News/Special/2011/01/03/US-drone-strikes-unpopular-in-Pakistan/UPI-83031294096559/>)

PESHAWAR, Pakistan, Jan. 3...halt to the drone attacks." 




**Obama’s targeted killings hurt US’s ability to gather intelligence by killing the key info sources—increases risk of terrorist attacks more than ever** 
[[#_Toc265313399]][[#_Toc265313748]][[#_Toc265314446]]
[Marc Thiessen, Foreign Policy, 2/8/10, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/08/dead_terrorists_tell_no_tales?page=0,1]

Obama's drone campaign ...terrorist attack


[[#_Toc265313401]][[#_Toc265313750]][[#_Toc265314448]]
[[#_Toc265313402]][[#_Toc265313751]][[#_Toc265314449]]<span class="cite">  </span>[Dr. Ely Karmon, ICT Senior Researcher, The Role of Intelligence in Counter-Terrorism, This article is based on a paper presented at the Conference on “Intelligence in the 21st Century” (Castle of San Marino, Priverno, Italy 14 – 16 February 2001), to be published by the Center for Advanced Studies of Terrorism and Political Violence (CEAS - Italy) in a book on the conference’s proceedings, 2/26/01, http://212.150.54.123/articles/articledet.cfm?articleid=152.]


<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Intelligence is essential...</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">threat to future generations. </span>




**A strong insurgency creates a jihadist, unstable Pakistan.**
**Brown 10** (Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute. “The Drug Conflict Nexus in South-Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits & Afghanistan.” he Afghanistan-Pakistan Theater: Militant Islam, Security, and Stability. May.

There, ﻿the anti-American Taliban...perceived or actual.




**Break down of Pakistan leads to nuclear war involving India, China, and Russia.**
**Morgan 7** (Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]) 


The Northern Alliance originally...China and Russia pitted against the US.




**Indo- Pak war ends in extinction.**
**Fai 7/8/01** (Ghulam Nabi; Executive director - Kashmiri American Council) Washington Times l/n wbw)

The foreign policy...Material/Cut-off Convention. 





=[[#_Toc149669698]]= 

**Contention 4: Solvency.**

**State behaviors determine the norms of international law—in turn norms help dictate the policies of individual states.** 
[[#_Toc265313355]][[#_Toc265313704]][[#_Toc265314402]] [W. Jason Fisher, * Judicial Clerk to the Honorable James O. Browning, United States District Court for the District of New Mexico, Targeted Killing, Norms, and International Law, 45 Colum. J. Transnat'l L. 711, Columbia Journal of Transnational Law, 2007]

International law and international...consistency in international law. 






**Enduring stability in Afghanistan and Pakistan can be achieved through ending targeted killing and therefore rebuilding confidence among the locals.**
**Innocent, 09.** (Malou, writer for Lebanon Daily Star. “The US must reassess their drone policy” CATO Institute. < http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10479>)

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">America's interests lie...objectives in the region.</span>




**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Plan solves civilian deaths caused by CIA misinformation; eliminates the “oops” factor.</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Special Report, 10. </span>**(“How White House Learnt to Love Drones?” //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">The Financial Daily. Vol. 3 Iss 285. </span>//< <span style="font-size: 10pt;">http://proquest.umi.com/pqdweb?RQT=569&curl=http%3A%2F%2Fproquest.umi.com%2Fpqdweb%3Fdid%3D2038339441%26sid%3D3%26Fmt%3D3%26clientId%3D24726%26RQT%3D309%26VName%3DPQD&TS=1287590418&cfc=1>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of the 500 militants the agency...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">only to prevent imminent attacks.</span>

﻿