[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**Inherency**

**Turkey currently hosts 90 U.S B-61 gravity bombs at the Incirlik Air Base – and there outdated**

Bell and Loehrke 09 (Alexandra is a Truman National Security Fellow and Benjamin is a grad student at the U of Maryland, “The status of U.S. nuclear weapons in Turkey”, accessed at http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey on 6/21/10//dml)//

//For more than 40 years…. without military value or purpose.//

//**Plan Text**//

//**Text: The United States federal government should withdraw its tactical nuclear presence from Turkey.**//

//**Advantage One - Iran**//

//**Iran is building a nuclear arsenal**//

//Pike, 10. (John Pike, Globalsecurity.org, Weapons of Mass Destruction: Nuclear Weapons, http://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/world/iran/nuke.htm, 2010.)//

//In December 2003 Presidential …….potentially others," Edwards said.//


//**Turkish credibility is key to reducing Iran’s arsenal – they’re the single most influential actor**//

//Ben-Meir, 09 (Alon Ben-Meir, Senior Fellow at the Center for Global Affairs in New York University and teaches courses on the Middle East and international negotiations, Spring 2009, The Whitehead Journal of Diplomacy and International Relations, Nuclear Iran is Not an Option: A New Negotiating Strategy to Prevent Iran from Developing Nuclear Weapons)//

//The presence of a third party……… long and friendly relations.//


//**However, Turkey can’t convince Iran to stop their nuclear program unless the U.S removes their TNWs**//

//Kibaroglu 6/7/10 (Mustafa, Professor and Vice Chair of the IR dept @ Bilkent U, “Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, Arms Control Today pg 12, June 2010//dml)

In addition to improvements in bilateral relations …….. its policy on U.S. nuclear weapons.

**A nuclear Iran makes proliferation inevitable: the nuclear program has already violated many terms of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty**

Calabresi, 03. (Massimo Calabresi, author for Time magazine, “Iran’s Nuclear Threat.” March 8th, 2003. http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,430649,00.html) AV

Iran announced last week that ……issue be solved in other ways."

**Iranian proliferation leads to spiraling regional conflict including Israeli first strike**

Romero, 99 (Juan Romero, Researcher of Middle Eastern affairs at Jane’s Intelligence Review, March 1st, 1999)

Recently, Israel expressed concern about ……Israelis is with a gun in one's hand.

**An Israeli strike results in extinction**

Ivashov, 07 (Leonid Ivashov, analyst at the Strategic Culture Foundation, 4/21/2007, "Iran: the Threat of a Nuclear War," http://www.megachip.info/modules.php?name=Sections&op=viewarticle&artid=3871)

What might cause the force major event…….. much more nightmarish than WWII.

**The impact is ARMAGEDDON – Iranian proliferation leads to every major impact**

Wimbush and Ford, 10 (S. Enders Wimbush, Senior Vice President for International Programs and Policy at Hudson Institute, and Christopher A. Ford, senior fellow and director of the Center for Technology and Global Security at Hudson Institute, 1-14-10, Hudson Institute, Perspectives Upon a Nuclear Iran)

Possession of nuclear arms may ………while defining America’s role to everyone else.

**Destabilization in the region leads to prolif and causes an arms race**

Gregor 10, (Diana, Journalist on Middle East Terrorism Affairs/ University of Vienna Austria, 6/4/10, "Nuclear Security Summit to Focus on Nuclear Terrorism: Iranian Threat Highlighted", http://www.realite-eu.org/site/apps/nlnet/content3.aspx?c=9dJBLLNkGiF&b=2315291&ct=8156111)

As Iran is moving ahead …….increasingly nuclear arms race in the Middle East.

**Iran destabilization causes nuclear terrorism**

Allison, 2007 (Graham, Douglas Dillon Prof. Gov. and Dir. Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs – Harvard U. JFK School of Government, National Interest, “Symposium: Apocalypse When?” November/December, L/N)

READERS OF Mueller's judgment that policies ………the increasing likelihood that terrorists may conduct a nuclear 9/11."

**Nuclear terrorism will prompt US nuclear retaliation killing hundreds of millions instantly**

Easterbrook 01, Senior Editor of New Republic [Greg, “America’s New War: Nuclear Threats,” Greenfield at Large, November 1, LN] bg

Well, what held through the Cold War ………..military target in a dozen Muslim countries.

**Advantage Two - Oil**

**Skyrocketing oil prices are due to threats of Iranian nukes.**

Dershowitz 10 ( If Iran Gets Nuclear Weapons… 2/11/10 <http://www.nytimes.com/2010/02/12/opinion/l12iran.html> Alan M. Dershowitz Cambridge, Mass. The writer is a professor at Harvard Law School)

In “Iran’s Two-Edged Bomb” (Op-Ed, Feb. 9), Adam B. …….concluding that a nuclear-armed Iran is unacceptable.

**If oil prices continue to skyrocket, it would be the end of civilization.**

Outzen 10 (May 13, 2010 Rick Outzen- reporter for The Daily Beast. “The Blog was featured in the New York Times—Blogger Stirs a City. The blog was also mentioned in Time Magazine (The Pensacola Adoptive Couple’s Murder: A Hit? ) and on Dateline NBC Ricksblog.biz has been consistently rated in the top most influential political blogs by BlogNetNews.com. (http://ricksblog.biz/?p=9845) //DoeS)//

//Settlements from Exxon Valdez are still in ………..oil and resources make and break civilizations.//

//**High oil prices kill any chance of democracy in the Middle East.**//

//Durrant 7 (Why high oil prices are good for gold By Brian Durrant Brian has a master's degree in economics from Cambridge University, followed by nearly 25 years' experience in the City. In the 1980s Brian worked with Tim Congdon in the economics department of stockbrokers L. Messel & Co. And in the 1990s he was head of research at GNI, the leading futures and options broker, specialising in exotic options strategies in foreign exchange markets. Oct 18, 2007 (http://www.moneyweek.com/investments/commodities/why-high-oil-prices-are-good-for-gold.aspx)//DoeS)

Putin knows the West needs Russia's gas………. no coincidence that oil prices were low then.

**Democracy in the Middle East is key to prevent a regional war.**

Hanson 2 (http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/001/769bfuqn.asp Democracy in the Middle East It's the hardheaded solution. BY VICTOR DAVIS HANSON is an American military historian, columnist, political essayist and former classics professor, notable as a scholar of ancient warfare. He has been a commentator on modern warfare and contemporary politics for National Review and other media outlets, and was a strong supporter of the policies of US President George W. Bush. He was for many years a professor of classics at California State University, Fresno, and is currently the Martin and Illie Anderson Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution.October 21, 2002, Vol. 8, No. 06 //DoeS)//

//Americans hope for constitutional governments ……….us that inaction can be as deadly as intervention.//

//**Otherwise, a war in the Middle East would pull in the U.S. & go global and nuclear.**//

//Chossudovsky 6 (The Dangers of a Middle East Nuclear War New Pentagon Doctrine: Mini-Nukes are "Safe for the Surrounding Civilian Population" by Michel Chossudovsky is Director of the Centre for Research on Globalization (CRG). In 1999, Chossudovsky joined the Transnational Foundation for Peace and Future Research as an adviser.February 17, 2006 (http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=1988)// DoeS)

The preemptive nuclear doctrine (DJNO), ……….theater would trigger a nuclear holocaust.

**High oil prices would fund terrorism.**
Durrant 7
Why high oil prices are good for gold By Brian Durrant Brian has a master's degree in economics from Cambridge University, followed by nearly 25 years' experience in the City. In the 1980s Brian worked with Tim Congdon in the economics department of stockbrokers L. Messel & Co. And in the 1990s he was head of research at GNI, the leading futures and options broker, specialising in exotic options strategies in foreign exchange markets. Oct 18, 2007 (http://www.moneyweek.com/investments/commodities/why-high-oil-prices-are-good-for-gold.aspx)//DoeS//

//Bumper oil revenues also encourage military adventurism…….. Pakistan and possibly from oil rich Arab countries.//

//**If left unchecked, terrorism will cause extinction**//

//Alexander 2 (implications of transnational terrorism for the visa waiver program hearing before the subcommittee on immigration and claims of the committee on the judiciary house of representatives one hundred seventh congress second session february 28, Mr. Yonah Alexander, Professor, Potomac Institute for Policy Studies Oral Testimony Prepared Statement 2002// DoeS http://commdocs.house.gov/committees/judiciary/hju77898.000/hju77898_0f.htm)

Scores of countries have experienced sporadic …………blow at the center of the nation’s commercial and military powers.

**Contention Two - Solvency**
**Withdrawal of TNWs from Turkey increases Turkish soft power – key to negotiating Middle East security pacts**

Kibaroglu 07 (Mustafa, Professor and Vice Chair of the IR dept @ Bilkent U, “Turning Back the Clock: A Turkish Nuclear Turnaround,” Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, November/December, vol 63, no 6, pg 64)

New opportunities exist for taking region-wide initiatives……….. A Turkish initiative could help lead the way.


**Plan is overwhelmingly popular with the Turkish public and is key to successful Turkish-Mideast relations**

Lamond and Ingram 09 (Claudine has a B.A. in IR and Paul is the executive director of the British Security Council, “Politics around US tactical nuclear weapons in European host states,” accessed at http://www.basicint.org/gtz/gtz11.pdf on 6/22/10//dml)//

//There is a rising sentiment amongst the ………other weapons of mass destruction would receive overwhelming public support.22//

//**A Turkish ability to negotiate successfully with Middle East countries is key to regional stability**//

//Cetinsaya 08 (Gokhan, Professor of History and IR @ Istanbul Technical University, accessed at http://www.acus.org/publication/us-turkey-relations-require-new-focus/cetinsaya on 6/22/10//dml)

Finally, it appears in recent months that ……….. region; d) cultural pluralism in the region.

**Middle East instability escalates – nuclear war**

London 6/23/10 (Herbert, Professor Emeritus of Humanities @ NYU, resident of the Hudson institute, a world-renowned think tank, former dean of the Gallatin School of Individualized Study, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and of the International Institute of Strategic Studies, affiliated professor @ U of Haifa in Israel, and Outstanding Person, “Dark War Clouds Loom on Mid-East Horizon”, accessed at http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=37630 on 6/23/10)

The gathering storm in the Middle East is gaining ……..Iranian leadership looks to with imperial exhilaration.


=Negative= 
=Start Politics= 

A. UNIQUENESS --> 
START WILL PASS – HISTORY PROVES IT WILL GET THE VOTES. 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CLINTON 9-8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [Hillary, Secretary of State, “Remarks at the Council on Foreign Affairs” CQ Transcripts -- lexis] </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">CLINTON: Well, I won't answer that as a political question because I…………. is seen as a really important symbol of our commitment to continue working with the Russians.  </span>
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;"> </span>

B. LINK -- 

<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">(Case specific link)</span>


PC KEY TO START PASSAGE. 
Sharp<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">, 8/28/0</span>9 <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(travis, military policy analyst at the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, where he specializes in defense budgeting, military policy, and congressional involvement in national security, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/local-priorities-vs-national-interests-arms-control)</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">While beliefs </span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">about national sovereignty and international law <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">……….</span>will require a Herculean political effort from the White House</span>.  </span>


C. IMPACT -- START KEY TO SOLVE ACCIDENTS, THEFT, PROLIF AND RELATIONS
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Montreal Gazette 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [July 4, “Duck and cover or a world without nukes?” -- http://www.montrealgazette.com/story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor=] </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Still, Blair and many others say <span class="underline">the need for the ………..</span>We either bury our weapons or we're buried by them," Blair said.  </span>

THE IMPACT IS EXTINCTION. 
<span class="cite">American Prospect</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">, 2/26/</span><span class="cite">01</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">  </span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 9pt;">The bitter </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">disputes over</span></span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 9pt;"> national missile defense………………. </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> all of us</span></span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 9pt;">," explains Bruce Blair. "It would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote." </span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>[[#_Toc270769406]]
**LASERS DA**
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
**A. Funding For the Airborne Laser Has Been Cut – It Can Be Revived** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephen </span>**Trimble**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, @ Flight International, 2/17/</span>**10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Airborne Laser faces uncertain future despite historic intercept test, <span style="color: black;">http://www.flightglobal.com/articles/2010/02/17/338475/airborne-laser-faces-uncertain-future-despite-historic-intercept.html</span>] </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The Airborne Laser Testbed (ALTB) faces an uncertain future……………………, which will inform the Pentagon's FY2012 budget request, he says.  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**B. Withdrawal would shift budget toward future weapons, and industry lobbyist are compensated with contracts.** 
**New York Times 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Christopher Drew, Covers military contracting and Pentagon spending for The New York Times. He is also the co-author of “Blind Man’s Bluff,” a best-selling book about submarine spying during the Cold War. 2/27/09“Military Contractors Await Details of Obama’s Budget”. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/28/business/28defense.html) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The good news for big military contractors from President…………… be able to persuade Congress to overturn some of those decisions.  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**C. Congress and Contractors Will Demand ABL** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Riki </span>**Ellison**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Chairman and Founder of the Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance, 2/15/</span>**10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [http://www.defpro.com/news/details/13147/] </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">"President Obama and Secretary of Defense Robert Gates had cut the ABL program ………. regions providing our armed forces and allies' necessary protection."  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**D. ABL Ensures a Directed Energy Weapon Arms Race**  
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul </span>**Rogers**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of Government at Bradford University, ‘</span>**2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Directed energy: a new kind of weapon, <span style="color: black;">http://www.opendemocracy.net/conflict/article_153.jsp</span>] </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The United States development of directed-energy …….. of the attacks of 11 September 2001, this is not to be discounted.  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**E. Extinction Ensures – Accidents and Pre-emption** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeff </span>**Hech**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, M.Ed. Higher Education –MA in Electronic Engineering - Editor @ Laser Focus World, </span>**’84**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [//Beam Weapons: The Next Arms Race//, p. 10-11] </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">It’s only appropriate that the obstacles to ………..operational, thereby triggering an ultimate escalation to World War III. </span>

=Deterrence= 
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">(For most countries but mostly South Korea) </span>**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;"> </span>
**US withdrawal wrecks asian regional instability – causes miscalc, arms races, and war and other factors won’t check escalation.**  
**Richardson, 2006**<span style="font-weight: normal;">  </span>
**<span style="font-weight: normal;">[Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html] </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rumors of a substantial drawdown or complete withdrawal of ……………….mission to maintaining regional stability, even in a reunified Korea.<span class="Underline"> </span></span>

=[[#_Toc271126761]] Japan= 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**__TEXT__: The United States federal government ought to enter into prior, binding consultation with the government of Japan on whether … ought to……with the possibility of minor modifications …** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**We’ll clarify.** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**It competes- excludes certainty of plan. “resolved” means “firm in purpose or intent; determined”- random house 6** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan wants consultation with the US- they won’t say no  </span>**</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sutter</span>**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Prof</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">., Asian Studies, Georgetown U.), THE UNITED STATES IN ASIA, 20</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 208. </span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Despite its fears of fading U.S. interest, ……….outlook for a future U.S. government is unpredictable. </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**__We have two net benefits__** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**1.First is the alliance – genuine and binding consultation prior to implementation is key to alliance**  
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mike </span>**Mochizuki**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Senior Fellow @ Brookings Institute, 3/22/</span>**97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Brookings Review, lexis  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">As the U.S.-Japan alliance becomes more reciprocal…….. America's strategic relationships with the major West European allies. </span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
**2. The alliance prevents multiple nuclear wars** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard L//.// </span><span class="Heading2Char">//<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Armitage</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. </span>**Nye et al. 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Asia,</span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> in the throes of historic change, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">should carry ……..alliance is central to America’s global security strategy. </span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**Prolif leads to nuclear war** 
**Utgoff**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, survival v. 44 no 2 summer 20</span>**02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, p. 90 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Widespread proliferation is likely to lead ……..we will all gather on a hill to bury the bodies of dead cities or even whole nations. </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
**Scenario Two: Sino-Russian Relations** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**1. Strengthening the US-Japan alliance is critical to loosen Sino-Russian ties** 
<span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brookes</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Fellow at the Heritage Foundation</span>**,** <span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">8-15-20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, “An Alarming Alliance: Sino Russian ties tightening” The Heritage Foundation, <span style="color: black;">http://www.heritage.org/Press/Commentary/ed081505a.cfm</span>, accessed: 8-15-2K5)</span> 
<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">First, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">the Pentagon must make sure the forthcoming …….Moscow in an effort to loosen Sino-Russian ties.  </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**2. Sino-Russian relations trigger renewed Russian aggression** 
<span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Menges</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Sr. Fellow at the Hudson Institute, </span><span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2K5</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Constantine, “China: The Gathering Threat” pg. 426) </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Of equal concern is the possible reemergence of …….with the Russian military and its military production and research entities.  </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**3. This causes nuclear conflict** 
<span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cohen</span></span>**,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fellow @ Heritage, </span><span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">19</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">96</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ariel, “The New Great Game” accessed 8-24-2K5, online: http://www.heritage.org/Research/RussiaandEurasia/BG1065.cfm) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Much is at stake in Eurasia for the U.S. and its allies…</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">……..</span></span><span class="Shrink"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. free access to these reserves for the benefit of both Western and local economies.  </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**Russian nuclear war leads to extinction** 
**Bostrom, Oxford philosophy faculty, 2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Nick, March “Existential Risks Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards,” Published in the Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, , [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]], ]</span> 
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">A much greater </span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">existential<span class="underline0"> risk emerged……………., since it would not destroy</span> or thwart <span class="underline0">humankind’s potential permanently</span>. </span>

=[[#_Toc270944345]]= 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Text: The United States Federal Government should propose that it__________________________________________________________________  </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for binding consultation. The United States should support the proposal during consultation and abide by the result of consultation. We’ll clarify </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The plan risks international backlash – consultation over military policy facilitates acceptance and blunts perceptions of US unilateralism </span>
**Campbell & Ward 2003**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Senior Fellows @ the Council on Foreign Relations(Kurt & Celeste, September/October, Foreign Affairs, [[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20030901faessay82507/kurt-m-campbell-celeste-johnson-ward/new-battle-stations.html?mode=print]]) </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the sensitivity of the issues involved, several steps ………..</span>do not reflect a significant change in diplomatic priorities. </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**Consultation and Communication are key to the NATO alliance** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Chernoff 95—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Associate Professor of Political Science at Colgate Univ (1995, Fred, after bipolarity p 10) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">The policies based on the alternative theory …….procedures and organs so that the periodic failures of the past are not repeated.  </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Collapse of NATO causes immediate instability that escalates to superpower nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">O'Sullivan</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, editor of the National Review and founder of the New Atlantic, 6-19</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">98</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [American Spectator]  </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Some of those ideas--notably, dissolution and "standing pat…………<span class="underline0"> the sudden absence of the main guarantor of European stability</span>. </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Consultation with NATO spills over to attract future U.S. involvement </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Of Paradise and Power: America and Europe in the New World Order. p 170) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Nor can the United States, in promoting liberalism, ……….</span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">the attraction they feel for the United Nations. </span></span>

=T= 

**A. Interpretation - Reduce excludes eliminate** 
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
**<span style="color: black;">Words and Phrases, 2</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (vol 36B, p. 80) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Mass. 1905. Rev.Laws, c.203, § 9, provides that, if two or more cases are tried together in the superior court, the presiding judge may “reduce” the witness fees and other costs, but “not less than the ordinary witness fees, and other costs recoverable in one of the cases” which are so tried together shall be allowed. Held that, in reducing the costs, the amount in all the cases together is to be considered and reduced, providing that there must be left in the aggregate an amount not less than the largest sum recoverable in any of the cases. </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="color: black;">The word “reduce,” in its ordinary signification, does not mean to cancel, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">destroy,</span><span style="color: black;"> or bring to naught, but to </span></span><span class="Underline">diminish</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">,</span><span style="color: black;"> lower</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, or bring to an inferior state</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.—Green v. Sklar, 74 N.E. 595, 188 Mass. 363. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
=[[#_Toc264833658]][[#_Toc270768487]]<span style="font-size: 16pt;"> </span>= 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**A. Interpretation –**  

**Substantially means including the main part** 

**WORDS AND PHRASES, 1964**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, p. 818.  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“</span><span class="Underline">Substantially” means</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in substance; </span><span class="Underline">in the main</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; essentially; </span><span class="Underline">by including the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> material or </span><span class="Underline">essential part</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**Presence refers to personnel stationed in a region** 
<span class="copyrightdescription"> </span>
<span class="copyrightdescription">**The** **Oxford Essential Dictionary of the U.S. Military, 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (by <span style="color: #003399;">Oxford University Press, Inc</span>. All rights reserved, republished and cited as “US Military Dictionary” at: </span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.answers.com/topic/presence</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>
<span class="tabtitle"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">US Military Dictionary:</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">  </span>
<span class="Underline">presence </span>
**//n.//**<span class="Underline">a group of people, especially soldiers or police, stationed in a particular place</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: //maintain a presence in the region.// </span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]