[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Spanos Nothing 1AC== 

IN ORDER TO BETTER UNDERSTAND THE UNDERPINNINGS OF AMERICA’S EXCEPTIONALIST WAR ON TERROR AND AMERICAN PRESENCE ABROAD – DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR AT BINGHAMTON, WILLIAM V SPANOS CONDUCTS A DESTRUCTIVE GENEALOGY THAT PROVIDES DIRECTIVES FOR RESISTING AN AMERICAN MOMENTUM THAT THREATENS TO DESTABILIZE THE PLANET AND KILL OFF THE HUMAN SPECIES . HE BEGINS HIS 2008 BOOK __AMERICAN EXCEPTIONALISM IN THE AGE OF GLOBALIZATION__ BY SAYING . . .
<span style="mso-no-proof: yes;">[william v, professor emeritus at the university of binghamton, __American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam__, 2008, SUNY Press pp. ix-xi]</span>
//<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">In this book I contend that <span class="underline">… and also for rethinking the very idea of America. </span></span>//

THE EFFORT TO FORGET VIETNAM –WHICH IS ANOTHER WAY OF SAYING FORGETTING ONTOLOGY – IS AN EXTENSION OF THE EXCEPTIONALIST DRIVE TO ELIMINATE DIFFERENCE IN A PARADOXICAL ‘KILL TO SAVE MENTALITY’ – SPANOS EXPLAINS
<span style="mso-no-proof: yes;">[william v, professor emeritus at the university of binghamton, __American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam__, 2008, SUNY Press pp. 13]</span>
//<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">The war in Vietnam, … <span class="CharacterStyle2"><span style="font-size: 11.5pt; letter-spacing: -.15pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">very (spatial and temporal) being.</span> </span></span>//

JUST AS THE UNITED STATES LOST THE WAR IN VIETNAM – IT IS NOW LOSING ON THE GLOBAL FRONTIER OF A WORLD UNWILLING TO BE OCCUPIED – INSTEAD OF ATTEMPTING TO BRING THOSE WHO REFUSE SPONTANEOUS CONSENT TO THE AMERICAN TRUTH INTO THE LIGHT – WE EMBRACE THEIR UNKNOWABILITY THE SAME WAY WE AFFIRM THE RESOLUTION: WE AFFIRM THE TOPICAL “NOTHING” WHICH IS NOT OPPOSED TO, BUT ‘PART OF’ Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and/or police presence in one or more of the following: South Korea, Japan, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Iraq, Turkey. 

MOST AFFIRMATIVES THIS YEAR WILL DEFEND THE TOPIC AS ‘SOMETHING’: DEFINING THE TERMS OF THE RESOLUTION AND LOCATING A POLICY INSIDE THOSE BOUNDARIES – THIS IS A FORM OF IMPERIAL METAPHYSICS THAT REDUCES BEINGS TO STANDING DISPOSABLE RESERVE - SPANOS EXPLAINS:
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal;">[William V. Spanos, __America’s Shadow: Anatomy of Empire__, 2000, pp. 10-11]</span>
//<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="underline">Metaphysics is thus a circular mode of inquiry …</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">and Foucault, "docile and useful body." </span></span>//

IMPERIALISM IS NO LONGER JUST A WAY THAT STATES INTERACT BUT A WAY OF THINKING, BEING AND //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">DEBATING</span>// IN THE WORLD – WE REFUSE TO RESPOND TO OUR ANXIETY WITH AN ATTEMPT TO PRESENCE THE RESOLUTION BY BREAKING IT DOWN, STAKING OUT ITS BOUNDARIES IN A WAY THAT TREATS BEINGS AS MANAGEABLE AND EXPLOITABLE. WE ALSO REFUSE TO ABIDE BY DEBATE MANDATES THAT REQUIRE US TO TRADE OUR UNIQUE AGENCY AS YOUTH AND AND STUDENTS NOW FOR SOME IMAGINED FUTURE WORLD AS POLICY-MAKERS. AS HENRY GIROUX ARGUES, WE HAVE UNIQUE POWER AS STUDENTS: 
<span class="SmallTextF4"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">(Henry A. Giroux, "Channel surfing: racism, the media and the destruction of today's youth." 1998)</span></span>
//<span class="SmallTextF4"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">But in spite of such social and economic differences between generations, … </span></span><span class="ReadingTextF6">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> its responsibilities to the present and its vision of the future.</span>** </span>//

FROM OUR LOCATION AS ACADEMIC INTELLECTUALS AND DEBATERS RESISTING EXCEPTIONALIST OCCUPATION OF THE PLANET - WE MUST RECONSTELLATE THE HISTORY OF THE VIETNAM WAR INTO THE PRESENT DEBATE TOPIC ABOUT MILITARY PRESENCE ABROAD. ONLY SUCH A RETHINKING CAN INTERRUPT THE AMERICAN DRIVE TO OCCUPY THE PLANET. SPANOS CONTINUES HIS 2008 ESSAY
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">[william v spanos, __American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam__, pp. 249-254]</span>
//<span class="underline">Let me now return to </span><span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: Garamond; line-height: 91%; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">the content of this book</span></span><span class="CharacterStyle2"> … </span><span class="underline">… </span><span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">and to the forwarding warfare that is endemic to it.</span></span>//

<span style="mso-line-break-override: restrictions; text-autospace: ideograph-numeric ideograph-other;"><span class="cardChar">**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">VOTE AFF REJECTS THE METAPHYSICAL DRIVE THAT RUTHLESSLY ACCOMMODATES OR DESTROYS DIFFERENCE WITH BANISHMENT. VOTE AFF TO THINK THE NOTHING POSITIVELY.</span>**</span></span>


=Negative= 
==Spanos 1NC== 

THE AMERICAN CENTURY HAS COME TO AN END, AND WITH IT ENDS THE UNIPOLAR DOMINATION OF THE PLANET THAT THE UNITED STATES HAS CRUSADED FOR SINCE THE END OF THE SECOND WORLD WAR. THE AFFIRMATIVE, IN POSITING LIBERAL CAPITALIST DEMOCRACY AS THE LAST AND ONLY OPTION FOR “CIVILiZED” INDIVIDUALS TO RESIDE IN, CONSTRUCTS THE WORLD IN A WAY THAT JUSTIFIES IMPERIAL DOMINATION. THE FALL OF THE AMERICAN EMPIRE IS IMMENENT. WILLIAM V. SPANOS CALLS OUR CURRENT SOCIOPOLITICAL OCCASION THE INTERREGNUM- THE TIME BETWEEN THE RISE AND FALL OF EMPIRES. THE AFFIRMATIVE MERELY ATTEMPTS TO RESCUE IMPERIALISM FROM THE THROES OF DEATH IT’S CURRENTLY NEARING.
SPANOS 2008 <span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">[William V, Professor at Binghamton, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam, SUNY Press 2008, 23-24]</span></span>
//<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="background: #b3b3b3;">The urgency of the need to break the peace of the Pax Metaphysica </span></span><span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">…</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="background: #b3b3b3;">the "errant" one</span>, who is "always under way"</span> <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">(LP, </span><span style="letter-spacing: -.1pt;">163)—"</span><span class="underline"><span style="background: #b3b3b3;">is" as such.</span> </span></span>//

<span style="font-weight: normal;">ALTHOUGH AN AMERICAN EXCEPTIONALIST ONTOLOGY CLAIMS TOTAL INVINCIBILITY, VIETNAM RUPTURED THE AMERICAN NATIONAL IDENTITY – AMERICA’S MISSION IN THE GLOBAL WILDERNESS SELF-DESTRUCTED AS WE OCCUPIED A WORLD THAT RESISTED SPONTANEOUS CONSENT TO THE “TRUTH” OF LIBERAL/CAPITALST DEMOCRACY – SPANOS DESCRIBES THE WAY FORGETTING BEING HAS LED US TO A POINT WHERE AMERICAN EXCEPTIONALISM WILL DESTROY THE PLANET </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">SPANOS 2008</span>**<span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> [William V, Professor at Binghamton, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam, SUNY Press 2008,]</span></span></span>
//<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">In this book I contend that</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="background: #b3b3b3;">… rethinking the very idea of America.</span></span></span>//

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">THE AFFIRMATIVE AS WELL AS THE RESOLUTION AT LARGE CALL FOR A GLORIFICATION OF U.S. ACTION IN THE FACE OF UNENDING ATROCITY. THIS GLORIFICATION COMES IN THE RHETORICAL FORM AS A JEREMIAD. JUST AS THE PURITANS RECORDED THEIR GRACIOUS AND BENEVOLENT TREATMENT OF NATIVE PEOPLES ONLY TO JUSTIFY ANY ATROCITY TOWARDS THOSE WHO RESIST THE ENLIGHTENMENT OF THE WEST, THE UNITED STATES WILL USE THE PLAN AS JUSTIFICATION FOR FURTHER COLONIAL GAIN. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">SPANOS 2008 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">[William V, Professor at Binghamton, __American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam__, SUNY Press 2008, 207-209]</span></span>
//<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Daniel Webster's Bunker Hill orations are … </span></span>of what the pioneers of the Battle of Bunker Hill accomplished.</span>//

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">OUR ALTERNATIVE IS TO RECONSTELLATE VIETNAM INTO THE PRESENT SOCIOPOLITICAL OCCASION – TO AFFIRM THE SPECTER OF VIETNAM AND THE NOTHING THAT HAUNTS THE ONTOLOGY OF THE AFFIRMATIVE, AMERICAN EXCEPTIONALISM AND UNITED STATES HEGEMONY. THIS RECONSTELLATION IS A REVERSAL OF STATUS QUO LOGIC WHICH ATTEMPTS TO RELEGATE OUR LOSS TO VIETNAMESE INSURGENTS TO A MERE BAD DREAM. </span>
<span class="CiteChar">Spanos 2000 </span><span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(William, “ The Question of Philosophy and Poiesis in the Posthistorical Age: Thinking/ Imagining the Shadow of Metaphysics.” Found in boundary 2, Volume 27, Number 1, Spring 2000, pp. 151-174)</span></span>
//<span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">What the presently</span></span>__<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Helvetica; mso-bidi-font-size: 9.0pt;"> privileged </span>__<span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">… from their recuperative teleological historical narratives.</span></span>//

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]