NEW AFF. Bye bye Lifton :(


Turkey is in possession of US nuclear weapons whose sole purpose is deterring and securing populations. These //<span style="font-style: normal;">make nuclear catastrophe thinkable by lowering the firebreak distinction between conventional and nuclear weapons, proving the failure of deterrence policies. This is part of a larger theology of security that attempts to eliminate difference constructed by our own narratives and makes annihilation inevitable</span>//
Chossudovsky 6 <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Michel, Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa, The Dangers of a Middle East Nuclear War: New Pentagon Doctrine: Mini-Nukes are "Safe for the Surrounding Civilian Population, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=2032) PJ </span>

<span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">At no point since the first atomic bomb...</span></span>         <span style="font-size: 6.5pt;"> ...Nuclear Weapons in Europe , February 2005) </span>


The United States federal government should remove all of its nuclear weapons from the Republic of Turkey.

Endorse the affirmative as a stance in opposition to nuclearism and the security paradigm. The assumptions we have in regards to reductions to the nuclear complex should be never ending and be genuinely opposed to notions of aggressive and benign securitization
BondGraham and Parrish 9 <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Darwin, sociologist and contributor to Foreign Policy in Focus, and Will, anti-imperialist organizer and contributor to Foreign Policy in Focus, Anti-Nuclear Nuclearism) PJ</span>


<span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">Concerns about the nuclear programs.....those who desire it unconditionally demand it</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">. </span></span>


This debate is key to enter into the political arena and dismantle the threats posed by the nuclear priesthood to reclaim the state from those who delegitimize it. The plan acts to interrogate the normalization of securitization by means of nuclear and conventional weapons by the US
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taylor 7</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">(</span></span>Bryan, Professor at the University of Colorado, Presidential Studies Quarterly, The Means to Match Their Hatred, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb6387/is_200712/ai_n32246236/pg_5/?tag=content;col1) PJ

<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 7pt;">To varying degrees, these critiques all assert </span>....          <span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">as a familiar and legitimate icon</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>


The discourse of nuclear security diminishes our moral capacities and bankrupts the language of international politics of all ethics. Our opposition to the specific discourse surrounding the nuclear weapons in Turkey is key to raise societal consciousness and solve
Bidwai and Vanaik 2k <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Praful, Fellow at Institute for Policy Studies and Achin, Fellow of the Transnational Institute of Amsterdam, New Nukes: India, Pakistan, and Global Disarmament, pg. 144-146) PJ</span>

<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 8pt;">It would be easy, but false, to claim that those who support deterrence... </span>         <span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">degrade our common and universal humanity</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>


The plan opens up the possibility for holy communities – in rejection of the security paradigm, or an apologetic theology, we reject a methodology of domination and allow for an alienated theology. This opens up the possibility for the transformative impact of the experience of others and rejects pretension towards certainty in our own narratives which foreclose the possibility for truth in difference and pushes us closer to annihilation
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fasching</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> <span class="tagChar">93</span></span>** (Darrell J, Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Aushwitz and Hiroshima, pg. 5-8)
</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">         <span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">The best way to describe the "style"... </span>         <span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">apocalypse </span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">that such a path risks.</span></span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">         </span>
Nuclearism perpetuates a logic by which we unquestioningly succumb to the mythic power of the bomb as an excuse for ethical engagement. This technical mystification forces upon us a doubling whereby our preparation for the final apocalypse assures our own destruction
Fasching 93 <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Darrell J, Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima, pg. 117-120) </span>

<span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">In our nuclear policies we have... </span></span>         <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;"> ...total darkness of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">planetary suicide.</span></span></span>


And, nuclear weapons are not a guarantor of peace, but a psychological state that keeps us on the brink of annihilation. These desensitizing mind tricks keep us from realizing our condition. The violent securitization of nuclear policies forecloses the possibility for true peace because of a constant fear of a certain adversary 
Bidwai and Vanaik 2k <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Praful, Fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies and Achin, Fellow of the Transnational Institute of Amsterdam, New Nukes: India, Pakistan, and Global Disarmament, pg. 163-166) PJ</span>

<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 7pt;">To understand why genuine, authentic </span><span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">security... </span></span>         <span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">collapse of the restraint regime.</span></span>


Ceding our ethical responsibility to act is complicit with the technicism that creates useless, bureaucratic politics and makes genocide inevitable
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fasching</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">93</span>** (Darrell J, Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima, pg. 241-243) PJ</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">         <span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;"> heart of the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">problem</span> lies... </span></span>         <span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">personal responsibility for their actions</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">         </span>
Divorcing governmental policies from ethics cedes political control to technicism. This magnifies doubling on a global scale and makes extinction desirable
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fasching</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">93</span>** (Darrell J, Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima, pg. 232-233) </span>

<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">These technological barbarians</span>....          <span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">sacred orders must be subordinated.</span></span>