[[toc]]
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: normal;">teams should look to other wayzata wikis, especially Alex and Luke and Mariah and Devon's wikis because most of our neg shells are on there already? </span>

=Affirmative= 


=<span style="border: 2.25pt solid black; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**Torture Aff**</span></span>= 
==<span style="border: 2.25pt solid black; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"> Contention 1: The Status Quo</span></span>== 

The Obama administration is shifting prisoners to military prisons in Afghanistan – AT BEST it will be years until resolved.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Matthew **__<span style="color: black;">Rothschild</span>__**, "Moving Guantanamo to Bagram Could Evade Court Jurisdiction," THE PROGRESSIVE, 3-25-**__<span style="color: black;">10</span>__**, www.commondreams.org/view/2010/03/25-10, accessed 4-21-10.</span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">In</span></span> President <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Obama</span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">'s first week in [...] </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">will translate into human rights violations</span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">. </span></span>

Afghani military prisons have replaced CIA black sites, and Obama is blocking any oversight.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Andy **__<span style="color: black;">Worthington</span>__**, journalist, "What has Happened to the Geneva Conventions? Is Bagram Obama's New Secret Prison?" COUNTERPUNCH, 9-16-**__<span style="color: black;">09</span>__**, www.counterpunch.org/worthington09162009.html, accessed 4-7-10.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">So is Bagram Obama’s new secret [...] the options that were not included?</span>




==<span style="border: 2.25pt solid black; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Contention 2: Solvency</span></span>== 

Obama must eliminate Afghani secret prisons and their torture facilities.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="color: black;">KHALEEJ TIMES</span>__**, editorial, "Shut Bagram and Gitmo Now," 4-16-**__<span style="color: black;">10</span>__**, www.khaleejtimes.com/DisplayArticleNew.asp?xfile=data/editorial/2010/April/editorial_April32.xml&section=editorial&col=, accessed 4-16-10.</span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">When</span></span> US President Barack <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Obama replaced</span></span> [...] <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">rot to deepen on his watch.</span></span>

Obama must close Bagram and its ilk to protect rights and human dignity.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Mukul **__<span style="color: black;">Sharma</span>__**, "Bagram, the Other Guantanamo," THE HINDU, 1-6-**__<span style="color: black;">10</span>__**, http://beta.thehindu.com/opinion/op-ed/article76282.ece, accessed 4-21-10.</span>

Like the detention facility at Guantanamo [...] , Congress, and the courts.





==<span style="border: 2.25pt solid black; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Contention 3: Torture (1/2)</span></span>== 

The U.S. is continuing to torture people at a hidden facility at Bagram

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="color: black;">BBC</span>__**, "Afghans "Abused at Secret Prison' at Bagram Airbase," 4-15-**__<span style="color: black;">10</span>__**, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/8621973.stm, accessed 4-16-10.</span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Afghan p<span style="border: none;">risoners are being abused in </span> [...] </span></span>before being taken to the prison.

Prefer our evidence – theirs discusses the old Bagram prison, not the secret on-site prison where new abuses are occurring.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Daniel **__<span style="color: black;">Tencer</span>__**, "Report: Afghans in Secret Jail 'Made to Dance' to Use Bathroom," THE RAW STORY, 4-15-**__<span style="color: black;">10</span>__**, http://rawstory.com/rs/2010/0415/afghans-abused-secret-jail-bagram/. </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Bagram prisoners 'moved around in wheelchairs [...] </span></span>whether any of them were insurgents.

Torture is inherently dehumanizing.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Amnesty International</span>__**, United States, Human Dignity Denied, Torture and Accountability in the ‘War on Terror,’ October 27, 20**__<span style="color: black;">04</span>__**, http://web.amnesty.org/library/Index/ENGAMR511452004</span>

In the end, however, [...] and ears and hearts."(371)

Dehumanization is the root cause of all impacts.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">David **__<span style="color: black;">Berube</span>__**, PhD, “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side,” NANOTECHNOLOGY MAGAZINE, June/July 19**__<span style="color: black;">97</span>__**, pp. 1-6, [[http://www.cla.sc.edu/ENGL/faculty/berube/prolong.htm|www.cla.sc.edu/ENGL/faculty/berube/prolong.htm]]</span>

This means-ends dispute is [...] <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">dehumanization is evil’s most powerful weapon</span></span>.

The US has a moral responsibility to protect those put in Bagram against the most radical form of dehumanization, torture.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Jonathan **__<span style="color: black;">Schell</span>__**, “What is Wrong With Torture,” The Nation, v 280 i 5, Feb 7, 20**__<span style="color: black;">05</span>__**, p. 8.</span>

But are these the fundamental reasons [...] in existence between civilization and barbarism.

Torture is a D-Rule – preventing it is a side constraint that precedes all other considerations.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Oren **__<span style="color: black;">Gross,</span>__** Professor, Law, University of Minnesota, MINNESOTA LAW REVIEW, June 20**__<span style="color: black;">04</span>__**, p. 1492-1493.</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Absolutists - those who believe that [...] <span class="underline2">welfare maximization</span></span><span class="highlight2"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">in all possible cases."</span> </span>




<span style="border: 2.25pt solid black; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Contention 4: The Gray Zone (1/6)</span></span>
Current intelligence policy in the “War on Terror” creates and maintains Gray Zones—the drive to gather intelligence sets the conditions for moral decay.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Seymour **__<span style="color: black;">Hersh</span>__**, Pulitzer Prize Winning Investigative Journalist, “The Gray Zone,” THE NEW YORKER, May 24, 20**__<span style="color: black;">04</span>__**.</span>

Last week, the government consultant [...] <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">. Rumsfeld has lowered the bar."</span></span>



<span style="border: 2.25pt solid black; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Contention 4: The Gray Zone (2/6)</span></span>
These places destroy all meaning and value… There is no weight to any impact until we free ourselves of the SQ’s triumphant nihilism… no justification can be accepted.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Alex </span>**__<span style="color: black;">Danchev</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">, Professor of International Relations, University of Nottingham, “"Like a Dog!": Humiliation and Shame in the War on Terror,” ALTERNATIVES, v 31 n 3, 20</span>**__<span style="color: black;">06</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">. </span></span>

Interrogation is apt to be adversarial [...] gesture, Walter Benjamin once said.



<span style="border: 2.25pt solid black; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Contention 4: The Gray Zone (3/6) </span></span>
Gray Zones are diabolically evil- they create incentives for human devaluation… Regardless of WHY they are left in place- to leave them in place is to be culpable for their evil.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Claudia **__<span style="color: black;">Card</span>__**, Emma Goldman Professor of Philosophy, University of Wisconsin, THE ATROCITY PARADIGM: A THEORY OF EVIL, 20**__<span style="color: black;">02</span>__**, p. 212-213.</span>

The writings of Nietzsche have tempted [...] <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">moral c<span style="border: none;">hallenges within a gray zone</span></span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">. </span></span>



<span style="border: 2.25pt solid black; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Contention 4: The Gray Zone (4/6)</span></span>
Utilitarian and Deontological ethics both fail to account for Evil… they Rationalize our reactions to events into Rules---- which does violence to our intuitive sense of evil.

<span style="margin-left: .5in; tab-stops: 45.8pt 91.6pt 137.4pt 183.2pt 229.0pt 274.8pt 320.6pt 366.4pt 412.2pt 458.0pt 503.8pt 549.6pt 595.4pt 641.2pt 687.0pt 732.8pt;">Stephen De **__<span style="color: black;">Wijze</span>__**, Senior Lecturer, University of Manchester, “Defining Evil: Insights from the Problem of “Dirty Hands,” THE MONIST, v 85 i 2, 20**__<span style="color: black;">02</span>__**. </span>

Evil persons seem to (or [...] characterised as evil (Section V).



<span style="border: 2.25pt solid black; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Contention 4: The Gray Zone (5/6)</span></span>
Worst case hypotheticals- when used to weigh against our revulsion to torture distance us from our personal sense of evil… manipulating us into becoming complicit.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Susan **__<span style="color: black;">Opotow</span>__**, Professor Emerita, UMass Boston, “Moral Exclusion and Torture: The Ticking Bomb Scenario and the Slippery Ethical Slope,” PEACE AND CONFLICT: JOURNAL OF PEACE PSYCHOLOGY, v 13 n 4, 20**__<span style="color: black;">07</span>__**.</span>

To understand how moral exclusion becomes [...] loosen restraints on harm-doing.



<span style="border: 2.25pt solid black; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Contention 4: The Gray Zone (6/6)</span></span>
Complicity is even worse if it is for “good reasons”… it leaves a moral stain on participants… furthering humiliation and shame.

<span style="margin-left: .5in; tab-stops: 45.8pt 91.6pt 137.4pt 183.2pt 229.0pt 274.8pt 320.6pt 366.4pt 412.2pt 458.0pt 503.8pt 549.6pt 595.4pt 641.2pt 687.0pt 732.8pt;">Stephen De **__<span style="color: black;">Wijze</span>__**, Senior Lecturer, University of Manchester, “Defining Evil: Insights from the Problem of “Dirty Hands,” THE MONIST, v 85 i 2, 20**__<span style="color: black;">02</span>__**. </span>

The analysis of "dirty hands [...] did, we are all stained.



<span style="border: 2.25pt solid black; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Role of the Ballot</span></span>

__We will read evidence about how you should situate your ballot in relation to our impacts:__

Even if Atrocity is Inevitable- We need to try to find ways to better live in the face of Atrocity

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Claudia **__<span style="color: black;">Card</span>__**, Emma Goldman Professor of Philosophy, University of Wisconsin, THE ATROCITY PARADIGM: A THEORY OF EVIL, 20**__<span style="color: black;">02</span>__**, p. 8.</span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Concern about large-scale and [...] </span></span><span class="box"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">we fail to prevent or escape.</span> </span>

Only retaining our personal moral sensibilities can break the cycle of evil… if you rationalize away your sensibilities, there’s no way to combat evil.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Claudia **__<span style="color: black;">Card</span>__**, Emma Goldman Professor of Philosophy, University of Wisconsin, THE ATROCITY PARADIGM: A THEORY OF EVIL, 20**__<span style="color: black;">02</span>__**, p. 218-219.</span>

My interest is especially in the [...] <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">in the soul of the individual.</span> </span>




<span style="border: 2.25pt solid black; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Plan</span></span>

Text: President Obama should issue a presidential directive to shut down all U.S. military and police prison facilities in Afghanistan that do not afford judicial review access to detainees.






==Afghanistan Aff - Valley== 

Contention 1 is Inherency:

The troops will remain in Afghanistan—new bases are being built

The Dallas News, 8/23/10, “Air base expansions in Afghanistan point to a long future for U.S. forces there” http://www.dallasnews.com/sharedcontent/dws/news/world/stories/DN-afghan_23int.ART.State.Edition1.3555498.html

WASHINGTON – Three $100 million [...] , saying his rights were violated.

Counterinsurgency is the main strategy in Afghanistan now—Petraeus has increased it

Julian Barnes, staff writer, 7/22//10 “Petraeus Sharpens Afghan Strategy” The Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703954804575381223866697214.html

WASHINGTON—Gen. David Petraeus [...] they said, without offering details.





Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence assigned to the counterinsurgency mission in Afghanistan. We’ll clarify.




Contention 2 is Hegemony:

The counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan is unsustainable and unwinnable—corruption, foreign funding, and lack of public support

Nelson 09, (Rick Nelson [...] /other-side-coin)

Probably not. Counterinsurgency doctrine, [...] -in” approach would entail.



Cross border sanctuaries, government corruption, tensions within the Afghan army and the utter failure of population protection all make the failure of counterinsurgency inevitable

Dorronsoro, 10 (Giilles, [...] =view&id=40863)

The coalition's strategy in Afghanistan is [...] the proliferation of these armed groups.




Nation-building in Afghanistan kills U.S. hegemony—it fatigues our military, kills our economy and drains public support for foreign-policy leadership

Kretkowski 10 (Paul D. Kretkowski, Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. Further experience overseas as rapporteur for university-sponsored "track two" diplomacy programs that provide enemies a forum for later cooperation and back-channel communication. Highly irregular reporting via blog on developments in soft power, public diplomacy and smart power, January 07, 2010, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html | Suo)

Over the winter break I had [...] (China, a reinvigorated Russia).



Counterinsurgency in Afghanistan has pushed our primacy to the brink—readiness and morale levels are low

Pyne, 9 (David Pyne [...]

Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R [...] something that Afghanistan has never had.



Hegemony solves war—there is no alternative

Kagan, 07 - senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)

This is a good thing, [...] could simply make them more catastrophic.
CARD CONTINUES……





American primacy is vital to accessing every major impact—the only threat to world peace is if we allow it to collapse

Thayer 2006 [Bradley A., Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, Duluth, The National Interest, November -December, "In Defense of Primacy", lexis]

A remarkable fact about international politics [...] hope of solving the world's ills.



Transitioning to counterterrorism is essential to sustain U.S. hegemony—abandoning COIN prevents the U.S. from committing strategic overreach

Boyle, 10 - Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?” http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract)

Finally, this emphasis on a [...] from gaining ground in distant conflicts.
As an example of this danger [...] limited counterterrorism response might be more appropriate




The war in Afghanistan uniquely key to U.S. hegemony—empirically proven by the Soviet and British invasions

Salam, 9- previously an associate editor at The Atlantic, a producer for NBC News, a junior editor and editorial researcher at The New York Times, a research associate at the Council on Foreign Relations, and a reporter-researcher at The New Republic (9/17/09, Reihan, “Don’t Short the Surge,” http://www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2009/dont_short_the_surge_12856)

One of the many ironies of [...] by personnel dedicated to logistical support.









Specifically, our hegemony is essential in Central Asia—2 scenarios.

Scenario 1 is Russia:

Russia is expanding because the U.S. is bogged down in Afghanistan—2010 is the key year

<span style="font-family: arial; font-size: small; line-height: normal;">Steff 10 (Reuben Steff, Intern, Centre for Strategic Studies. Dissertation on ballistic missiles and deterrence. MA, IR, “The Russian Resurgence, America and the Great Crisis of 2010,” 7 January 2010, [[@http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1001/S00022.htm|http://www.scoop.co.nz/ stories/HL1001/S00022.htm]]</span>

The Russian Resurgence is now in [...] be the one centred upon Iran.



Focus on the war in Afghanistan has decreased our sphere of influence and allowed for Russian expansionism

<span style="font-family: arial; font-size: small; line-height: normal;">Kabalan 6/25 (Marwan Al Kabalan, Professor of Political Science and Media at Damascus University, “Russia is reasserting its influence”, 6/25/10, [[@http://gulfnews.com/opinions/columnists/russia-is-reasserting-its-influence-1.645812|http://gulfnews.com/opinions/ columnists/russia-is- reasserting-its-influence-1. 645812]])</span>

The Central Asian republic of Kyrgyzstan [...] the world's geopolitical centre of gravity.



Specifically, counterinsurgency operations in Afghanistan have allowed for Russia resurgence

<span style="font-family: arial; font-size: small; line-height: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bauman 09</span>__ (Paul Bauman, Lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force and Senior Fellow at the Atlantic Council, August 31, 2009 “Afghanistan’s Opportunity Costs” Atlantic Council, [[@http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/afghanistans-opportunity-costs-0|http://www.acus.org/new_ atlanticist/afghanistans- opportunity-costs-0]])</span>

Opportunity cost is commonly understood as [...] understood to include massive government deficits.







Failure to contain Russian will destabilize all of Eurasia, spark nuclear wars and put a stranglehold on the west

Cohen 1996
(Ariel, PhD, Heritage Foundation, “The New Great Game: Oil Politics in the Caucasus and Central Asia”, Backgrounder, no. 1065, p. lexis)

Much is at stake in Eurasia [...] of both Western and local economies.





Scenario 2 is Pakistan:

Expanded military presence in Afghanistan pushes insurgents into Pakistan, radicalizing the Islamic government—only a light-footprint approach can repair relations

Simon, and Stevenson, 9 * adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND **Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009 http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409)**

**Whatever US officials might concede privately [...] in the breach of American ineffectuality.**





**Political instability leads to civil war, nuclear terrorism, failed states, and Taliban takeover**

**Scotland on Sunday ’07, 12-30, “One murder closer to a nuclear nightmare,” http://scotlandonsunday.scotsman.com/world/One-murder-closer-to-a.3628315.jp**

**Pakistan, which neighbours the [...] really ought to be concerned about."**

**Nuclear terrorism causes extinction**

**Sid-Ahmed 4 (Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, political analyst, “Extinction!” August 26-September 1, Issue no. 705, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm)**

**What would be the consequences of [...] , we will all be losers.**



**Contention 3 is Solvency:**

**Counterterrorism solves best—counterinsurgency requires far too much effort to be feasible**

**Alexander 6/25 (Douglas Alexander was elected Member of Parliament for Paisley South in a by-election in November 1997 and is the current Secretary of State for International Development. He is also Labour’s general election co-ordinator. Douglas has broad experience in government, having previously served as Department of Trade and Industry Minister and as Secretary of State for Transport under Tony Blair, Jun 25, 2010, “Where now for the comprehensive approach in Afghanistan?”, http://www.labourlist.org/comprehensive-approach-afghanistan-douglas-alexander)**

**“Counter-insurgency and counter [...] which our forces can return home.**


**Switch to a counterterrorism strategy stabilizes Afghanistan and protects our interests**

**Bandow 09 (Doug Bandow, is the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and a Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. A former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan, he is the author of Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire, 12/28/09, “Abandoning the Interventionist Temptation in Afghanistan”, http://www.campaignforliberty.com/article.php?view=479)**

**With al-Qaeda dispersed, [...] backed government. <CARD CONTINUES>**








=Negative= 

==Kappeler== 


First, understanding violence as something that happens “out there,” and is perpetrated by heads of state or armies, is the first step to forgetting our own responsibility for the many expressions of violence in the world. Questions about what the government should do, erase questions about what we should do, and ensure that violence continues while we wallow in our powerlessness.
<span style="margin: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Susanne </span>Kappeler<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, 19</span>95<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, pg. 10-11</span></span>


‘We are the war’ ...................... **<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">permit them to happen</span>**<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">. </span>



Second, attempts to explain violence in abstract and formulaic terms shield individuals from any responsibility for their actions. The 1AC’s argument that ___<span style="font-weight: normal;">(a breakdown in American economic power results in a decline in geopolitical leadership which guarantees war, biopower causes war, etc.)</span>__ is an example of this. Describing violence as the inevitable result of a chain of events naturalizes it and washes the hands of those who actually decide to commit acts of violence.
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Susanne </span>Kappeler<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, __The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior__, 19</span>95<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, pg 14</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Scientific discourse, too, ......................... set of causes.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">**The affirmative’s explanations of violence can never produce positive change. Understanding violence as an aberration, or as an event that occurs outside of the sphere of our personal influence, guarantees our complicity with continued violent world orderings.**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 13pt; text-align: left; text-indent: 0in;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Susanne </span>Kappeler<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, __The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior__, <span style="font-weight: normal;">19</span></span>95<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, pg 8-9</span></span></span>

**__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Violence </span>__**– what we .............................**<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">t hem to happen</span>**<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">. </span>











NOTE: THERE IS ALSO AN ALTERNATIVE CARD BUT I CAN'T FIND IT ON MY LAPTOP. WE'RE NOT A PAPERLESS TEAM :( IT WILL BE UP AS SOON AS I FIGURE OUT WHERE IT IS.

==Counterplans:== 
===Alt Grounds CP:=== 


**Text: The United States Supreme Court should require the removal of the United States’ uninhabited combat aerial vehicles in Afghanistan and Iraq on the grounds that their use violates the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.**

**Drone attacks are unconstitutional**

**William** __<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Fisher </span>__**quoting Francis Boyle who is professor of international law at the University of Illinois College of Law.[1] Boyle received a J.D. degree magna cum laude and A.M. and Ph.D. degrees in political science from Harvard University, “Death By Drone: CIA’s Hitlist is Murder”, July 4, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">10</span>__**, [[http://bearmarketnews.wordpress.com/2010/07/04/death-by-drone-obamas-policy-of-targeting-u-s-citizens-and-cias-hitlist-is-murder/]]

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 9.5pt;">They obviously need (<span style="border: medium none;">...)</span>United States Constitution.”</span></span>


===<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Sanctions CP</span>=== 



Text: The United States Federal Government should substantially reduce its economic sanctions against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
1. North Korea is willing to re-start six-party-talks – U.S. concessions key
Carter, 10
<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[Jimmy, 39th president, is the founder of the Carter Center and the winner of the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize. 9/15/2010, North Korea Wants to Make a Deal,</span><span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/16/opinion/16carter.html|http://www.nytimes.com/2010/ 09/16/opinion/16carter.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">]</span>

DURING my recent travels .................and thoroughly confirmed.
2. Lifting sanctions is the key concession – jumpstart six-party-talks
Choo, 5
<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[Jaewoo, “Is institutionalization of the six-party talks possible?”, EASTASIA, Winter 2005, Vol. 22, No. 4, pp. 39-58.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The six-party </span>................. by making a theoretical assessment.

3. Concessions solve regional stability – decrease tensions and lead to North Korean cooperation
Roy, 10
<span style="font-size: 9pt; margin: 0px;">[Denny, Senior Fellow and Supervisor of POSCO Fellowship Program Ph.D., Political Science, University of Chicago, “Parsing Pyongyang’s Strategy,” Survival, Volume 52, Issue 1 February 2010 , pages 111 – 136]</span>

<span style="border: medium none initial; font-size: 9pt;">A potentially fruitful ......................and eventual de-nuclearisation.</span>






[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]