Email [[mailto:paizhagenie@gmail.com|paizhagenie@gmail.com]] (BBQ and Akila will get to you ASAP ^_^) YAY FOR FULL TEXT. DO IT. 
[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==1AC - Greenhill== 


**AFGHAN COIN AFF**

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**FIRST IS THE STATUS QUO –**</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**OBAMA’S JULY 2011 WITHDRAWAL DEADLINE WON’T BE MET – BUT IT SHOULD HAVE TRIGGERED YOUR PERCEPTION DISADS**</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**Rubin, 10** – resident scholar at the <span style="color: black;">American Enterprise Institute</span>; senior lecturer at the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Civil-Military Relations; and a senior editor of the //<span style="color: black;">Middle East Quarterly</span>//. (Michael, Public Square, 3/8, “The Afghanistan Withdrawal: Why Obama Was Wrong to Insist on a Deadline,” [[http://www.michaelrubin.org/7033/afghanistan-withdrawal-deadline]])</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">It is true, as Schlesinger points out, that Obama did not set a date for the completion of the withdrawal, but he signaled its finite nature. And herein lays the problem. The reason Obama spoke of a deadline was not to pressure Afghanistan President Hamid Karzai but rather to assuage constituencies in the United States increasingly wary of open-ended U.S. involvement in the country. But in the Middle East and South Asia, <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">perception matters far more than reality</span>. Diplomatic affairs expert Omar Sharifi, speaking on Afghan television, declared, “Today the Afghans unfortunately lost the game and failed to get a long-term commitment from the international community.” Likewise, Afghan political analyst Ahmad Sayedi observed, “When the USA sets a timeline of 18 months for troop withdraw, this by itself boosts the morale of the opponents and makes them less likely to take any step towards reconciliation.” It is absolutely correct to say that Obama did not say that all—or even a significant fraction—of U.S. troops would withdraw in July 2011, but this is what was heard not only by U.S. allies and adversaries in Afghanistan but also by the governments and media in regional states such as Pakistan, Iran, and even Russia. </span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**PLAN: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan**</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**ADVANTAGE ONE IS PAKISTAN WAR**</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**PAKISTAN IS ON THE BRINK – AUGUST FLOODS WILL GIVE A REINVIGORATED TALIBAN THE CHANCE TO COLLAPSE PAKISTAN**</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**PK on Web 8/14**, “Geopolitical Consequences of Pakistan’s Floods,” PK on Web is a New York City based team-edited web portal covering Pakistan news, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://pkonweb.com/2010/08/the-geopolitical-consequences-of-pakistans-floods/]]</span></span>

<span style="color: #333333; line-height: 13.5pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Natural disasters have geopolitical consequences no matter where they occur. In the case of Pakistan, the implications are in a league of their own, given the South Asian nation’s significance in the U.S.-led war against jihadists and the American need to bring closure to it within a short time. Exacerbating matters even further is the fact that Pakistan in the last three years or so has undergone an unprecedented level of destabilization, due to a combination of factors. These include socio-political unrest, a declining security situation due to a raging jihadist insurgency, an energy/power crisis and an economy that is managing to steer clear of bankruptcy only because of multibillion-dollar international loan and aid packages. In the past year or so, since mounting a massive counterinsurgency campaign and retaking large areas formerly under the control of Taliban rebels in the northwest, Pakistan had begun showing faint signs of improvement. Those efforts have been dealt a major blow by floods that have wreaked havoc on a national scale and threaten to cause conditions to deteriorate further. Since flooding continues and rescue and relief efforts will be ongoing for quite some time, current damage assessment reports present only a partial picture of the devastation that has taken place. Therefore, it is difficult to offer a forecast in any meaningful sense. Nonetheless, judging from the scale of destruction and the pre-existing problems that Pakistan has been facing, a number of scenarios can be sketched out. By no means are we saying that these are inevitable, but depending on how events unfold, they remain very much within the realm of possibility. The most immediate concern is that a crisis of these proportions represents a massive logistical challenge, especially for a state with no shortage of other problems. If not managed, the dislocation of such a large number of people who have been deprived of their homes and livelihood, coupled with the destruction of vast chunks of largely agricultural territory in the core Indus River region, can easily translate into massive social unrest. Thus far, the government has not demonstrated much capability. The rescue and relief efforts that have been mounted were made possible by the military’s institutional infrastructure. It will be some time before the focus shifts from short-term emergency relief efforts to long-term rehabilitation and reconstruction measures, which is when there will be an increasing threat of social unrest due to food shortages and the lack of other basic necessities. Some 60,000 troops have been deployed to deal with the flood situation, which means that the military has had to shift considerable resources away from the counterinsurgency efforts in the Pashtun areas along the border with Afghanistan. The floods have likely kept the militants from conducting business as usual, but the shifting of the army’s focus toward disaster management gives the Taliban and al Qaeda elements space and time to try to expand their activities in Pakistan and across the border in Afghanistan. The deterioration of social and economic circumstances creates the perfect atmosphere for jihadists to realize their goals of undermining the state.</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**COUNTERINSURGENCY OPERATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN CAUSE PAKISTAN COLLAPSE – RADICALIZES THE POPULATION AND MAKES POLITICAL COOPERATION WITH THE U.S. IMPOSSIBLE**</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**Simon and Stevenson 9** (adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND Professor of Strategic Studies at the US</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"> Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009 [[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409]]**)**</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">The Obama administration’s instincts favouring robust counter-insurgency and state-building in Afghanistan reflect the 1990s-era US and European predilection for peacekeeping, reconstruction and ehavioratio, and the multilateral use of force for humanitarian intervention, deployed to positive effect in the Balkans and withheld tragically in Rwanda. To the extent that this mindset was premised on an expansion of the rule of law to hitherto poorly and unjustly governed areas, such as Somalia and Bosnia, it reflects the broader conception of counter-terrorism adopted after 11 September. Insofar as it favours collective action by major powers with the unambiguous endorsement of the UN Security Council, it is also consistent with the Obama administration’s rejection of Bush-era unilateralism. And an aggressive internationalist approach to spreading democracy and the rule of law, notwithstanding the shortsightedness and inefficacy of the Bush doctrine, is admirable and in some instances appropriate.<span style="color: black;">6</span> In this case, however, it is more likely to hurt than help. While a larger US military footprint might help ehavior Afghanistan in the short term, the effects of collateral damage and the aura of US domination it would generate would also intensify anti-Americanism in Pakistan. This outcome, in turn, would frustrate both core American objectives by rendering it politically far more difficult for the Pakistani government to cooperate with Washington (and easier for the quasi-independent Inter-Services Intelligence to collude with the Taliban and al-Qaeda), thus making it harder for the United States to defeat al-Qaeda. It would also increase ehavioration in Pakistan,</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext;"> imperil the regime </span>and raise proliferation risks, increasing rather than decreasing pressure on India to act in the breach of American ineffectuality.</span>


**U.S. OPERATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN ARE FUELING PAKISTAN CIVIL WAR – EXISTENTIAL THREAT TO THE STATE**


**Akhtar, 10** - professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” [[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#**1]])



<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">If it is a war against extremists and militancy inside Pakistan, it is a civil war because its origins stem from the US, NATO occupation of neighboring Afghanistan. The conflict should be seen as an extension of the ongoing resistance of the Afghan people to alien domination. It is inaccurate to say that the US invaded Afghanistan because of the 9/11 attacks by Al-Qaeda. Former BBC correspondent George Arney reported on September 18, 2001, that Niaz Naik, the former Pakistani foreign secretary, had told him that he was informed by US officials at a UN-sponsored international contact group on Afghanistan in Berlin during July that year that unless Osama bin Laden were handed over swiftly, America would take military action to kill or capture both Bin Laden and Mullah Omar. The wider objective, however, was to topple the Taliban regime and install a transitional government under King Mohammad Zahir Shah. The invasion was to take place in mid-October 2001. Mr. Naik went on to say that he doubted that the US would have abandoned its plan to invade Afghanistan even if Osama were handed over by the Taliban. Arney’s story is corroborated by the Guardian correspondent David Leigh in his report published on September 26, 2001, in which he revealed that the Taliban had received specific warning by the US through secret diplomacy in Berlin in July that the Bush Administration would topple the entire regime militarily unless Osama is extradited to the US. This was part of the larger design of US military, industrial complex to bring about regime change in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Iran. As the US needed bases in Pakistan to accomplish its pre-planned invasion of Afghanistan, the Bush Administration sought to use Islamabad as a cat’s paw to pull the chestnuts out of the fire. Fortunately for President Bush, a usurper ruled there, devoid of all legitimacy, legal and moral, and he readily and willingly succumbed to US pressure and made a U-turn by severing all links with the Taliban. He even joined the war against Afghanistan instead of using his leverage with the Taliban to exhaust all means of peaceful settlement of the dispute. The entire region, including Pakistan, was declared a war zone by the US military command, and the flights of all passenger planes were prohibited over a certain altitude, while no merchant ships could enter the harbors of Pakistan, thus bringing maritime trade (which comprises approximately 95 percent of Pakistan’s import-export trade) to a standstill. It is no wonder that Pakistan suffered a loss of 34 billion dollars because of its involvement in the Afghan war. America’s War As one can see, it was America’s war that was imposed upon Pakistan. Whether Pakistan could have avoided the war is a matter of controversy among politicians and political observers. But the war has fuelled insurgency in Pakistan’s hitherto peaceful tribal territory adjacent to Afghanistan. This insurgency shows no sign of abatement, as terrorist attacks on military and civilian centers in the capital and major cities of the North-West Frontier Province and Punjab continue with a vengeance, posing threat to the security of the state. In the meantime, routine predator strikes by the US in Waziristan have taken a heavy toll of civilian lives amid accusations of Islamabad’s complicity in the piratical attacks on tribespeople, which prompts them to resort to retaliatory strikes on the perpetrators. Not satisfied with Pakistan’s military operations in the tribal region, the US Administration has compelled Islamabad’s fragile government to pull out its troops from the tense Indo-Pak border and deploy them in the restive tribal belt along the Pak-Afghan border. <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">Now Pakistan faces existential threat from the Taliban</span> and not India, a perception which the country’s military leadership is not prepared to share, given the unresolved disputes with New Delhi, which triggered four wars during the last 62 years. At the same time, speculation (not entirely unfounded) is rife about the involvement of the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) and the former Blackwater (now christened Xe Services) in murder, mayhem, and gunrunning as evidenced by the armed Americans who drive consulate vehicles through cities and, when intercepted, refuse to disclose their identity. It is here that one recalls with dismay the role of General Stanley McChrystal, who until last year headed the Joint Special Operations Command, which runs drone attacks and targeted assassinations with the assistance of the operatives of the former Blackwater. This was revealed by Jeremy Scahill’s investigative report published in the US weekly the Nation. That may, perhaps, solve the mystery surrounding a series of assassinations of ulama belonging to various Islamic movements. The sinister motive behind such acts of terror is to incite sectarian violence in Pakistan and lay the blame at the doors of religious extremists. Similar death squads were organized by the CIA in El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua to carry out political assassinations of nationalists who were opposed to US intervention. At the time, the Sandinista government of Nicaragua complained to the International Court of Justice about the mining of Nicaraguan ports, the violation of the country’s airspace, the killing and kidnapping of individuals on the Nicaraguan territory, and the threat or use of force by the US. The court in its decision in June 1986 held that the US was in breach of the customary rules of international law and international humanitarian law. The above case is titled the “Military and Paramilitary Activities in and Against Nicaragua.” The precedent set by this case may be invoked by Pakistan to prevent the US drone attacks on its territory. Once the piratical attacks of the US have stopped, the irritant in the tribal insurgency would have gone, paving the way for pacification of the conflict. If this were Pakistan’s war, the government would have exercised its own judgment in dealing with the militants at home, either by conciliation or by resort to force. But Islamabad’s so-called operation against militants is subordinated to US military designs in the region, aimed at the encirclement of the People’s Republic of China and the control of the transit of gas pipelines from Central Asia to South Asia. It is not aimless that China expressed its concern over the concentration of US, NATO troops in the region. India fits in the American scheme of things, hence the US-India nuclear deal. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Pakistan’s National Interest</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"> In this emerging security environment, Pakistan will have to be content with its role as a junior partner of India. Therefore, the sooner Islamabad extricates itself from the US “war on terror,” the better it is for its security and independence. Doesn’t Islamabad realize that its military operation against the militants would leave its border with India vulnerable to a New Delhi offensive? If Pakistan permits the US to attack the suspected training centers of militants on its territory, will it be able to prevent India from doing so? With Islamabad embroiled in internecine strife, it cannot negotiate with India from a position of strength. It may be forced to make a compromise that might be detrimental to its national interest. Pakistan’s preoccupation with tribal rebellion would not permit it to deal with separatist ethnic forces in Baluchistan. Undoubtedly, this is a threat to the territorial integrity of Pakistan. After the total failure of the military operation in Baluchistan, the federal government has come round to the painful conclusion that political and not military action can bring militancy to an end. Granting general amnesty to the dissidents and engaging them in a meaningful dialogue on contentious issues is a laudable initiative. The same gesture should be made to the militants in the tribal areas. But Islamabad has adopted double standards in dealing with the Baluchistan militants and the Pashtun militants, as if there were good militants and bad ones. This discriminatory policy would intensify the Pashtun insurgency and might drive them toward even more escalation. The rulers have seen the consequences of military operations in the former East Pakistan, Baluchistan, Karachi, Sind, and FATA (federally administered tribal areas). If anything, the situation has only worsened. The surge of US troops, the expansion of war beyond the borders of Afghanistan, and the attacks on Quetta and Muridke as envisaged by Obama’s new strategy would mean that US troops are at war with the people of Pakistan. Any Solution? The Obama Administration would be better advised to concentrate on its exit strategy, and to that end, it is imperative that it involve the UN in its peace-making efforts aimed at the establishment of a broad-based government in Afghanistan, because the Karzai Government has no legitimacy. To fill the vacuum, the UN peacekeeping force, made up of troops of states not involved in the Afghan war, may be deployed until a government of national unity is able to assume full responsibility. Here the US can contribute to the postwar reconstruction of Afghanistan under the aegis of the UN. The insurgency in the tribal region is the spillover effect of US military occupation of Afghanistan, but Pakistan faces a far greater threat: the threat of ethnic violence as manifested in the bloody clashes among various linguistic groups in urban and rural Sind. These have been overshadowed by the counterinsurgency operations in FATA, but they may erupt at any moment, thus destabilizing the state.</span>


**THE MERE PERCEPTION OF PAKISTAN COLLAPSE LEADS TO PREEMPTIVE INDIAN ATTACK – GOES NUCLEAR**

**<span style="color: black;">Ricks 01</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Thomas, “At Pentagon: Worries Over War’s Costs, Consequences,” The Washington Post, 10/21, </span>[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer]]<span style="color: black;">)</span>


<span style="color: black; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">The prospect of Pakistan being taken over by Islamic extremists is especially worrisome</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"> because it possesses nuclear weapons. The betting among military strategists is that India, another nuclear power, would not stand idly by, if it appeared that the Pakistani nuclear arsenal were about to fall into the hands of extremists. A preemptive action by India to destroy Pakistan’s nuclear stockpile could provoke a new war on the subcontinent. The U.S. military has conducted more than 25 war games involving a confrontation between a nuclear-armed India and Pakistan, and each has resulted in nuclear war, said retired Air Force Col. Sam Gardiner, an expert on strategic games. </span>



**INDOPAK NUCLEAR WAR CAUSES EXTINCTION**


**Fai 01**, **Executive Director of the Kashmiri American Council, 01**
**<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">(Dr. Ghulam Nabi, Executive Director of the Washington-based Kashmiri American Council, “India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir,” 7/8, Washington Times, [[http://www.pakistanlink.com/Letters/2001/July/13/05.html]])</span>**


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">The foreign policy of the United States in South Asia should move from the lackadaisical and distant (with India crowned with a unilateral veto power) to aggressive involvement at the vortex. The most dangerous place on the planet is Kashmir, a disputed territory convulsed and illegally occupied for more than 53 years and sandwiched between nuclear-capable India and Pakistan. It has ignited two wars between the estranged South Asian rivals in 1948 and 1965, and a third could trigger nuclear volleys and a nuclear winter threatening the entire globe. The United States would enjoy no sanctuary. This apocalyptic vision is no idiosyncratic view. The Director of Central Intelligence, the Department of Defense, and world experts generally place Kashmir at the peak of their nuclear worries. Both India and Pakistan are racing like thoroughbreds to bolster their nuclear arsenals and advanced delivery vehicles. Their defense budgets are climbing despite widespread misery amongst their populations. Neither country has initialed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, or indicated an inclination to ratify an impending Fissile Material/Cut-off Convention.</span>



**ENDING THE COIN MISSION SOLVES THROUGH DEESCALATION**


**Bandow 09 –** senior fellow at the Cato Institute, former special assistant to President Reagan and the author of several books (Doug, “ Recognizing the Limits of American Power in Afghanistan,” Huffington Post, 10/31/09, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10924)


<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0.2in 0in 0in;">Most important, Pakistan seems more likely to be destabilized by an endless, escalating conflict than a Taliban advance. Islamabad’s vulnerabilities are obvious, with a weak civilian government facing a complex mix of poverty, instability, insurgency, and terrorism Unfortunately, the war in neighboring Afghanistan exacerbates all of these problems. Argued Hoh: “Our presence in Afghanistan has only increased destabilization and insurgency in Pakistan.” First, the war has pushed Afghan insurgents across the border. Second, cooperation with unpopular U.S. policy has reinforced the Zardari government’s appearance as an American toady. Ever-rising American demands further undercut Pakistani sovereignty and increase public hostility.</span>



**SHIFT TO COUNTERTERROR FOCUS SOLVES PAKISTAN – ALLOWS INCREASE IN DIPLOMATIC FOCUS**


**<span style="color: black;">Kaplan, 9 – </span>**<span style="color: black;">journalist and Slate contributor (Fred, “CT or COIN?Obama must choose this week between two radically different Afghanistan policies.,” Slate, 3/24, </span>[[http://www.slate.com/id/2214515]]<span style="color: black;">)</span>


<span style="color: black; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">A “targeted” CT campaign, its advocates say, would at least demonstrate the West’s resolve in the war on terrorism and keep al-Qaida jihadists contained. It’s a type of fighting that we know how to do, and its effects are measurable. One might also argue (I don’t know if anyone on the inside is doing so) that it could serve as a holding action—a way of keeping Afghanistan from plunging deeper into chaos—while we focus more intently on diplomatic measures to stabilize neighboring Pakistan. If Pakistan blows up, curing Afghanistan of its problems will be irrelevant and, in any case, impossible.</span>


**<span style="color: black;">ENDING COIN REDUCES U.S. FOOTPRINT IN AFGHANISTAN AND SHORTCIRCUITS PAKISTAN INSURGENCY</span>**


**<span style="color: black;">Eland 09</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – </span>Senior Fellow and Director of the <span style="color: black;">Center on Peace & Liberty</span> at The Independent Institute. Dr. Eland is a graduate of Iowa State University and received an M.B.A. in applied economics and a Ph.D. in Public Policy from George Washington University. He has been Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute (October 8, Ivan, “Fire McChrystal and Get Out of Afghanistan” <span style="color: black;">http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2633</span> )


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Because politicians are intrinsically cautious when it comes to national security, the proponents are likely to win this argument unless Americans finally face up to the question that they have avoided since 9/11: Why do radical Islamists, such as al-Qaeda, which are halfway across the world, focus their attacks on the United States? The answer is in plain sight, but it is too painful for Americans to acknowledge. Osama bin Laden has repeatedly given us his reasons—U.S. occupation of Muslim lands and support for corrupt Middle Eastern dictators. For example, in 1998, bin Laden charged that it was “an individual duty for every Muslim” to “kill the Americans” and drive their military “out of all the lands of Islam.” So the nation-building, drug-busting fiasco in Afghanistan is merely inflaming the Islamist urge to throw out the foreign occupiers. It is no coincidence that the resurgence of the Taliban is correlated with increases in the foreign military presence in Afghanistan. Furthermore, nation-building in Afghanistan has destabilized neighboring Pakistan, a country with nuclear weapons. In conclusion, the likely futile attempt to stabilize Afghanistan to prevent another safe haven for al-Qaeda is actually fueling the fires of anti-U.S. Islamist rage. Withdrawing from Afghanistan and focusing on neutralizing the real threat from al-Qaeda in Pakistan—not the Taliban—using the aforementioned techniques with a lighter footprint will give the U.S. better results. </span>



**<span style="color: black;">WITHDRAWAL DOWN TO A RESIDUAL COUNTERTERROR FORCE IS A POLITICAL GAME CHANGER – STOPS THE RISE OF THE TALIBAN</span>**


**<span style="color: black;">Dorronsoro 09 –</span>**Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (January 2009, Gilles, “Focus and Exit: An Alternative Strategy for the Afghan War,” [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_war-strategy.pdf]])


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">This three-zone strategy is not, //per se,// a gamechanger, and it must be accompanied by an incremental, phased withdrawal. The withdrawal would not be a consequence of “stabilization,” but rather an essential part of the process. Since the presence of foreign troops is the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">most important factor</span> in mobilizing support for the Taliban, the beginning of the withdrawal would change the political game on two levels. First, Jihad would become a motivation for fewer Afghans; instead, the conflict would be mostly seen as a civil war. Second, the pro-government population (or, more exactly, the anti-Taliban one) would rally together because of fear of a Taliban victory. <span style="color: #002561;">Why Withdraw the Combat Troops ? Reframing the War</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">There is an argument against withdrawing combat troops: namely, that al-Qaeda would retain its sanctuary in Afghanistan because the Afghan state would not have control of some parts of the country, especially in the east. Though superficially compelling, this argument is weak for two reasons. First, the international coalition lacks the resources to control the periphery of the Afghan territory anyway. Second, the withdrawal of combat troops does not preclude targeted operations with the agreement of the Kabul government. So, in terms of physical security, the withdrawal of combat troops does not bring clear gains for al-Qaeda. There are two important reasons for withdrawal. First, the mere presence of foreign soldiers fighting a war in Afghanistan is probably the single most important factor in the resurgence of the Taliban. The convergence of nationalism and Jihad has aided the Taliban in extending its influence. It is sometimes frightening to see how similar NATO military operations are to Soviet ones in the 1980s and how the similarities could affect the perceptions of the population. The majority of Afghans are now deeply opposed to the foreign troops on their soil. The idea that one can “stabilize” Afghanistan with more troops goes against all that one should have learned from the Soviet war. The real issue is not to “stabilize” but to create a new dynamic. The Taliban have successfully framed the war as a Jihad and a liberation war against (non-Muslim) foreign armies. The concrete consequence of this moral victory is that the movement has been able to gain ground in non-Pashtun areas. The situations in Badghris Province (northwest) and in Badakhshan Province (northeast) are extremely worrisome, because the Taliban have been able to attract the support of some Pashtun tribes and fundamentalist networks. A province like Wardak, initially opposed to the Taliban in the 1990s, is now one of its strongholds. Insecurity bred by the narcotics trade and the infighting of local groups in the north also provides the Taliban opportunities to find new allies on a more practical, rather than ideological, ground. This trend is extraordinarily dangerous, since the spread of the war geographically would put Western countries in an untenable position. Second, withdrawal would create a new dynamic in the country, providing two main benefits. The momentum of the Taliban would slow or stop altogether, because without a foreign occupier the Jihadist and nationalist feelings of the population would be much more difficult to mobilize. Furthermore, the Karzai regime would gain legitimacy. If Karzai (or his successor) receives enough help from the international coalition, he would be able to develop more centralized institutions in the strategic areas or at least keep local actors under control. The regime would remain corrupt but would appear more legitimate if it succeeded in bringing security to the population in the strategic zones without the help of foreign troops. The support of the urban population, which opposes the Taliban, is a critical issue. Corruption is a problem primarily if it accelerates the independence of Afghanistan’s peripheral regions.</span>



**ADVANTAGE TWO IS TERRORISM**


**MOST ACCURATE POLLING DATA SHOWS NO POPULAR CONFIDENCE IN AFGHAN GOVERNMENT – COIN IS FATALLY FLAWED**


**Galston 6/15** – Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings (William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th, [[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx]])


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Are the basic premises of our current policy in Afghanistan fatally flawed? The fact that I feel compelled to pose this question so soon after the completion of President Obama’s painstaking review reflects the mounting evidence that the results of that policy have fallen far short of expectations. Let’s begin at the beginning, with Marja. The holy trinity of modern counterinsurgency is clear, hold, and build. Coalition forces are stalled at step one. After the initial military thrust, many Taliban fighters, including mid-level commanders, swooped back in to the area to intimidate local inhabitants who might otherwise be inclined to cooperate with the coalition and Afghan government. Many other Afghanis sympathize with the core Taliban message that we intend to occupy their country for the long-term with the aim of imposing alien cultural, religious, and political values. It is hard to see what will tip this stalemate in our favor, even harder to see how we can hand over governance and security function to the Afghans in Marja any time soon. Brigadier General Frederick Hodges, one of the leading commanders in southern Afghanistan, puts it this way: “You’ve got to have the governance part ready to go. We talked about doing that in Marja but didn’t realize how hard it was to do. Ultimately, it’s up to the Afghans to step forward.” It’s clear that Hodges is not holding his breath. The next shoe to drop was Kandahar. Ever since this Taliban stronghold was identified as a key target, the tension between the U.S. and Afghan governments on this issue has been palpable—so much so that the coalition is now hesitant to call what it has in mind an “offensive.” Just last week, we learned that the operation scheduled to begin in the spring would fall even farther behind schedule. As The New York Times reports, “The Afghan government has not produced the civilian leadership and trained security forces it was to contribute to the effort, U.S. officials said, and the support from Kandaharis that the United States was counting on Karzai to deliver has not materialized.” Stanley McChrystal, the top commander in Afghanistan, has been admirably frank about a core difficulty: the residents of Kandahar are far from sure that they want the protection we claim to be offering them. On to Kabul, where President Karzai has reportedly lost faith in the coalition’s ability (and that of his own government) to defeat the Taliban and is secretly maneuvering to strike a separate deal with them. If these reports are correct—and Susan Rice, our UN ambassador, disputed them on Sunday (though, notably, she offered no new evidence in support of her assertion that Karzai remains a committed partner)—two events appear to be fueling his growing disenchantment: senior American officials’ claims that his reelection lacked legitimacy, and President Obama’s December announcement that he intended to begin reducing the number of American troops by July 2011. One might be tempted to chalk up the extent of our difficulties in Afghanistan to tendentious reporting. I was skeptical myself—that is, until I stumbled across a stunning NATO/ISAF report completed in March. This report summarizes the results of an in-depth survey conducted in nine of the 16 districts in Kandahar Province to which researchers could safely gain access. Here are some of the findings: Security is viewed everywhere as a major problem. When asked to name the top dangers experienced while traveling on the roads, far more respondents named Afghan National Army and Police checkpoints than roadside bombs, Taliban checkpoints, or criminals. And the Taliban were rated better than ISAF convoys and checkpoints as well. Corruption is viewed as a widespread problem and is experienced by respondents on a regular basis. In fact, 84 percent say that corruption is the main reason for the current conflict. Corruption erodes confidence in the Afghan government, and fully two-thirds of respondents believe that this corruption forces them to seek alternatives to government services and authority. Chillingly, 53 percent regard the Taliban as “incorruptible.” The residents of Kandahar overwhelmingly prefer a process of reconciliation to the prospect of continued conflict. Ninety-four percent say that it is better to negotiate with the Taliban than to fight with them, and they see grounds for believing that these negotiations will succeed. Eighty-five percent regard the Taliban as “our Afghan brothers” (a phrase President Karzai repeated word for word in his address to the recent jirga), and 81 percent say that the Taliban would lay down their arms if given jobs. Our military commanders in Afghanistan talk incessantly about the need to “shape” the political context in a given area before beginning activities with a significant military component—but if their own research is correct, our chances of “shaping” Kandahar any time soon range from slim to none. Based on General McChrystal’s own logic, then, we cannot proceed there because a key requirement for success is not fulfilled. And if we can’t prevail in Kandahar, then we’re stuck with the Taliban as a long-term military presence and political force in Afghanistan.</span>


**FOLLOWING A COIN STRATEGY ENABLES A KARZAI VETO OVER COUNTERTERROR EFFORTS – ONE STRATEGY PRECLUDES THE OTHER**


**<span style="color: black;">Boyle, 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – (</span>Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?” [[http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract]])


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Another set of offsetting effects emerges if counterinsurgency efforts entrench an illegitimate state, thereby making compliance with key demands of counterterrorism activity more costly. A central tenet of the modern thinking on counterinsurgency holds that success will require a strong and representative central state that can command the loyalties of the population. By contrast, counterterrorism depends on a state conducting, authorizing or at least tolerating potentially costly strikes against dangerous operatives on its territory. Both counterinsurgency and counterterrorism, then, depend on political capital, but in different ways. A counterinsurgency strategy is designed to build the political capital of the local government, while a counterterrorism strategy requires that government to use its political capital in authorizing costly or unpopular missions. Seen in this light, these missions work at cross-purposes, for one builds political capital while the other uses it. But if a counterinsurgency strategy inadvertently produces a government with a legitimacy gap, that government will have diminished political capital and face higher costs for complying with counterterrorism demands. Indeed, the local government may even have an incentive to publicly reject the overtures of its foreign backers to improve its legitimacy in the eyes of its population. This dynamic has been particularly apparent in Afghanistan since the elections in August 2009. Since 2001, the US counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan has depended on the presence of a legitimate government in Kabul. Such a situation is not new in counterinsurgencies, but in previous cases the focus was usually on bolstering the legitimacy of an existing government rather than creating one from scratch. In Afghanistan, however, over 20 years of war had left no state to speak of. Once the Taleban was overthrown, the US and its NATO allies faced the unenviable task of not only crafting a state but also vesting it with some local legitimacy. As Rory Stewart has pointed out, their approach was to create a strong central state, something for which there was no precedent in Afghanistan.82 After the initial election of Hamid Karzai in December 2001, it looked as if this gamble would pay off. The convening of the first //loya jirga// in Bonn in 2001, and the presidential elections in 2004 and parliamentary elections in 2005, provided some shreds of legitimacy for the Karzai government. But mounting allegations of mismanagement, incompetence and corruption in the last four years have widened the legitimacy gap facing the Karzai government. The August 2009 elections, now widely acknowledged to be fraudulent, stripped the Karzai government of even the fragile legitimacy that it had accrued since the overthrow of the Taleban.83 NATO had gambled on the democratic process to provide legitimacy to the Karzai government, but underestimated the extent to which this could backfire if the supporters of that government engaged in voter fraud and intimidation to return their party to power. This legitimacy gap has had two consequences that have undermined the counterterrorism effort in Afghanistan. First, the elections left President Karzai with diminished political capital and a powerful incentive to find new reasons to say ‘no’ to America. Following the elections, he distanced himself from the US by pointedly refusing American entreaties to reform and heightening his criticisms of NATO’s air strikes.84 He recently called for an end to all air strikes in the country, even though this would deprive the US of a key counterterrorism tool.85 While he has not refused to authorize US counterterrorism operations in his country, there is precedent for such ehavior. The Iraqi government of Nouri al-Maliki tried to improve its domestic legitimacy by rebuking the US and condemning its counterterrorism air strikes along the border with Syria and elsewhere in Iraq.86 Now that the elections have revealed the legitimacy deficit that his government faces, President Karzai will be loath to use his political capital to defend American counterterrorism missions; indeed, he will have a strong incentive to grandstand against his American backers for conducting these operations at all. Second, the flawed elections inadvertently confirmed the narrative that the Taleban and Al-Qaeda employ against the Karzai government: that an illegitimate American puppet regime was put in power under a pretence of democracy. This created a serious dilemma for the United States. It needs to back the Karzai government if it is to prosecute its counterinsurgency strategy, which presumes that the Afghan people can be made more loyal to the government. But to do so while the Karzai government faces a legitimacy gap is to risk committing the cardinal sin of counterterrorism: validating the enemy’s narrative. The ironic result of using democratic elections as a means to produce legitimacy is that the US, in its counterinsurgency effort, is now chained to a less cooperative government that actually validates Al-Qaeda’s narrative.</span>


**COUNTERTERROR STRATEGY CAN SUCCESSFULLY DENY TALIBAN TERRORIST SANCTUARY**

**Chellany 09** – professor of strategic studies at the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi (9/14/09, Brahma, Japan Times, “An Advantagous U.S. Exit,” [[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20090914bc.html]])


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">When the administration’s principal war target is not the Taliban but rather al-Qaida remnants on the run, why chase a troop-intensive strategy pivoted on protecting population centers to win grassroots support? In reality, what it calls a “clear, hold, build” strategy is actually a “surge, bribe, run” strategy, except that the muddled nature of the mission and the deepening U.S. involvement crimp the “run” option. America’s quandary is a reminder that it is easier to get into a war than to get out. In fact, Obama undermined his unfolding war strategy last March by publicly declaring, “There’s got to be an exit strategy.” The message that sent to the Taliban and its sponsor, the Pakistani military, was that they ought to simply out-wait the Americans to reclaim Afghanistan. Before Afghanistan becomes a Vietnam-style quagmire, Obama must rethink his plan for another troop surge. Gradually drawing down U.S. troop levels indeed makes more sense because what holds the disparate constituents of the Taliban syndicate together is a common opposition to foreign military presence. An American military exit from Afghanistan will not come as a shot in the arm for the forces of global jihad, as many in Washington seem to fear. To the contrary, it will remove the common unifying element and unleash developments whose significance would be largely internal or regional. In Afghanistan, a vicious power struggle would break out along sectarian and ethnic lines. The Taliban, with the active support of the Pakistani military, would certainly make a run for Kabul to replay the 1996 power grab. But it won’t be easy to repeat 1996. For one, the Taliban is splintered today, with the tail (private armies and militias) wagging the dog. For another, the non-Taliban and non-Pashtun forces now are stronger, more organized and better prepared than in 1996 to resist the Taliban’s advance to Kabul, having been empowered by the autonomy they have enjoyed in provinces or by the offices they still hold in the Afghan federal government. Also, by retaining Afghan bases to carry out covert operations and Predator missions and other airstrikes, the U.S. military would be able to unleash punitive air power to prevent a 1996 repeat. After all, it was the combination of American air power and the Northern Alliance’s ground operations that ousted the Taliban from power in 2001.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"> Against this background, the most likely outcome of the Afghan power struggle triggered by an American decision to pull out would be the formalization of the present de facto partition of Afghanistan along ethnic lines. Iraq, too, is headed in the same direction. The Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras and other ethnic minorities would be able to ensure self-governance in the Afghan areas they dominate, leaving the Pashtun lands on both sides of the British-drawn Durand Line in ferment. Thanks to ethnic polarization, the Durand Line, or the Afpak border, exists today only on maps. On the ground, it has little political, ethnic and economic relevance.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"> As in Iraq, an American withdrawal would potentially let loose forces of Balkanization in the Afpak belt. That may sound disturbing, but this would be an unintended and perhaps unstoppable consequence of the U.S. invasion. An American pullout actually would aid the fight against international terrorism. Instead of staying bogged down in Afghanistan and seeking to cajole and bribe the Pakistani military from continuing to provide succor to Islamic militants, Washington would become free to pursue a broader and more-balanced counterterrorism strategy. Also, minus the Afghan-war burden, the U.S. would better appreciate the dangers to international security posed by Pakistani terror groups like the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e- Mohammed. The threat of an Islamist takeover of Pakistan comes not from the Taliban but from these groups that have long drawn support from the Pakistani army as part of the deep-rooted military-mullah alliance. </span>


**SUCCESSFUL COUNTERTERROR OPERATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN PRECLUDE ANY MAJOR TERRORIST PLOT – AFGHAN PHYSICAL SANCTUARY IS NECESSARY FOR AL-QAIDA**


**Arkedis 09** <span style="display: inline ! important; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">(Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”,</span>


<span style="display: inline ! important; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven]])</span>









<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">As deliberations about the Obama administration’s strategic direction in Afghanistan unfold, the White House is weighing whether <span style="display: inline; font-weight: normal; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0.3in 0in 0in; text-align: justify;">al Qaeda, in fact, needs an Afghan safe haven – an expanse of land under the protection of the Taliban – to reconstitute its capability to attack the United States. Many noted scholars doubt it. In a recent Washington Post op-ed, Council on Foreign Relations President Richard Haass bluntly stated, “Al Qaeda does not require Afghan real estate to constitute a regional or global threat.” He’s wrong. Although the group has been significantly weakened since late 2001, the only chance al Qaeda has of rebuilding its capability to conduct a large-scale terrorist operation against the United States is under the Taliban’s umbrella of protection. Objections like Haass’s are rooted in the following arguments: that terrorists don’t need physical space because they can plot online; that the London and Madrid bombings prove deadly attacks can be planned in restrictive, Western, urban locations under the noses of local security services; and that denying terrorists one safe haven will simply compel them to move to another lawless region. I spent five years as a counterterrorism analyst for the Pentagon and rigorously studied plots from Madrid to London to 9/11. The above arguments may have merit in a piecemeal or abstract sense, but fall apart in the specific case of what we all dread: a large-scale, al Qaeda operation aimed at the United States. It is certainly true, for example, that terrorist groups can accomplish much online. Individuals can maintain contact with groups via chat rooms, money can be transferred over the Web (if done with extreme caution), and plotters can download items like instruction manuals for bomb-making, photographs of potential targets, and even blueprints for particular buildings. But all the e-mail accounts, chat rooms, and social media available will never account for the human touch. There is simply no substitute for the trust and confidence built by physically meeting, jointly conceiving, and then training together for a large-scale, complex operation on the other side of the world. As the 9/11 plot developed, mastermind Khalid Sheik Mohammed (KSM) put the future operatives through a series of training courses along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. Courses included physical fitness, firearms, close combat, Western culture, and English language. The 9/11 Commission report notes the extreme physical and mental demands KSM put on the participants – even if the operation didn’t require extensive firearms usage, KSM would have wanted the operatives to be proficient under intense pressure, should the need arise. Juxtapose that with an online learning environment. While you can no doubt learn some amazing things from online courses, it is far preferable to have a dedicated professor physically present to supervise students and monitor their progress. Or think of it another way: You wouldn’t want the U.S. Marine Corps to send recruits into battle without training under a drill instructor, would you? KSM was somewhere between a professor and sergeant. Second, critics argue that the Madrid bombings of 2004 (which killed 191) as well those in London a year later (which killed 56) were largely – though not entirely – conceived, prepared, and executed within their respective countries, thus obviating the need for a safe haven. True enough. However, unlike 9/11 (which killed nearly 3,000), those plots’ successes were possible due to their simple concept and small scale. In both cities, the playbook was essentially the same: Four to eight individuals had to find a safe house, download bomb-making instructions, purchase explosive agents, assemble the devices, and deliver charges to the attack points. Without trivializing the tragic loss of life in the European attacks, building those explosive devices was akin to conducting a difficult high-school chemistry experiment. On that scale, 9/11 was like constructing a nuclear warhead. In every sense, it was a grander vision, involving 20 highly skilled operatives infiltrating the U.S. homeland, who conducted a series of hijackings and targeted four national landmarks with enough know-how, preparation, and contingency plans to be success. In one instance, KSM taught the 9/11 operatives to shoot a rifle from the back of a moving motorcycle, just in case. You can’t do that in someone’s bedroom – you need space, time, and the ability to work without worrying that the cops are listening in. In other words, as a plot grows in number of operatives, scale of target, distance from base, and logistical complexity, so does the need for space to reduce the chances of being discovered and disrupted. The final argument is that denying al Qaeda a safe haven is an exercise in futility: Drive Osama bin Laden from Afghanistan and he’d relocate to some place like Sudan, southern Algeria, Somalia, or other swaths of ungoverned territory. However, this logic makes two faulty assumptions: that al Qaeda is mobile, and that the group’s international affiliates would automatically roll out the red carpet for the jihadi refugees. Neither is true. Bin Laden and his senior and mid level cadre are well-known to intelligence services the world over. Any attempt to travel, let alone cross an international border (save Afghanistan-Pakistan) would fall somewhere between “utterly unthinkable” and “highly risky.” Moving would further require massive reorientation of al Qaeda’s financial operations and smuggling networks. Nor would bin Laden’s senior leaders be automatically welcomed abroad in areas their regional partners control. Though al Qaeda has established “franchise affiliates” in places like North Africa and Southeast Asia, relationships between al Qaeda’s leadership and its regional nodes are extraordinarily complex. Groups like the North African affiliate “al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb” (AQIM) are happy to co-opt the al Qaeda “brand” for recruiting and financial reasons, but they don’t necessarily share the al Qaeda senior leadership’s ideological goals. AQIM is much more focused on attacking the Algerian government or foreign entities within the country, having not displayed much capability or desire for grandiose international operations. And last, recruits come to North Africa more often through independent networks in Europe, not camps along the Durand Line. Think of the relationship like the one you have your in-laws: You might share a name, but you probably don’t want them coming to visit for three full weeks. Regional leaders aren’t terribly loyal to senior leadership, either. Take Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the deceased leader of the group’s Iraq affiliate. He was summoned to bin Laden’s side numerous times in an attempt to exert control as the Iraqi commander’s tactics grew more grotesque and questionable. Zarqawi declined, not wanting to risk travel or accept instruction from bin Laden. In the end, a safe haven along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border is as good as it gets for al Qaeda’s chances to launch a large-scale attack against the United States. Certainly, smaller, less complex attacks could be planned without “Afghan real estate,” but any such plot’s death toll and long-term effect on American society will be far more limited. Unfortunately, that’s a risk President Barack Obama has to accept – no amount of intelligence or counterterrorism operations can provide 100 percent security. But to avoid the Big One, the U.S. president’s best bet is to deny al Qaeda the only physical space it can access.</span></span>


**MAJOR TERROR OPERATIONS CAUSE NUCLEAR EXTINCTION**


**<span style="color: black;">Morgan, 9 – </span>**
<span style="color: black; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus – South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct)</span>


<span style="color: black; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">In a remarkable website on nuclear war, Carol Moore asks the question ‘‘Is Nuclear War Inevitable??’’ [10].4 In Section 1, Moore points out what most terrorists obviously already know about the nuclear tensions between powerful countries. No doubt, they’ve figured out that the best way to escalate these tensions into nuclear war is to set off a nuclear exchange. As Moore points out, all that militant terrorists would have to do is get their hands on one small nuclear bomb and explode it on either Moscow or Israel. Because of the Russian ‘‘dead hand’’ system, ‘‘where regional nuclear commanders would be given full powers should Moscow be destroyed,’’ it is likely that any attack would be blamed on the United States’’ [10].</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"> Israeli leaders and Zionist supporters have, likewise, stated for years that if Israel were to suffer a nuclear attack, whether from terrorists or a nation state, it would retaliate with the suicidal ‘‘Samson option’’ against all major Muslim cities in the Middle East. Furthermore, the Israeli Samson option would also include attacks on Russia and even ‘‘anti-Semitic’’ European cities [10]. In that case, of course, Russia would retaliate, and the U.S. would then retaliate against Russia. China would probably be involved as well, as thousands, if not tens of thousands, of nuclear warheads, many of them much more powerful than those used at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, would rain upon most of the major cities in the Northern Hemisphere. Afterwards, for years to come, massive radioactive clouds would drift throughout the Earth in the nuclear fallout, bringing death or else radiation disease that would be genetically transmitted to future generations in a nuclear winter that could last as long as a 100 years, taking a savage toll upon the environment and fragile ecosphere as well.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"> And what many people fail to realize is what a precarious, hair-trigger basis the nuclear web rests on. Any accident, mistaken communication, false signal or ‘‘lone wolf’ act of sabotage or treason could, in a matter of a few minutes, unleash the use of nuclear weapons, and once a weapon is used, then the likelihood of a rapid escalation of nuclear attacks is quite high while the likelihood of a limited nuclear war is actually less probable since each country would act under the ‘‘use them or lose them’’ strategy and psychology; restraint by one power would be interpreted as a weakness by the other, which could be exploited as a window of opportunity to ‘‘win’’ the war. In other words, once Pandora’s Box is opened, it will spread quickly, as it will be the signal for permission for anyone to use them. Moore compares swift nuclear escalation to a room full of people embarrassed to cough. Once one does, however, ‘‘everyone else feels free to do so. The bottom line is that as long as large nation states use internal and external war to keep their disparate factions glued together and to satisfy elites’ needs for power and plunder, these nations will attempt to obtain, keep, and inevitably use nuclear weapons. And as long as large nations oppress groups who seek self determination, some of those groups will look for any means to fight their oppressors’’ [10]. In other words, as long as war and aggression are backed up by the implicit threat of nuclear arms, it is only a matter of time before the escalation of violent conflict leads to the actual use of nuclear weapons, and once even just one is used, it is very likely that many, if not all, will be used, leading to horrific scenarios of global death and the destruction of much of human civilization while condemning a mutant human remnant, if there is such a remnant, to a life of unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter.</span>


**ADVANTAGE THREE IS HEGEMONY**


**AFGHAN WITHDRAWAL SOLVES URGENT OVERSTRETCH – CAN’T WAIT UNTIL 2011**


**Friedman, 10 –** American political scientist. He is the chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College (George, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan,” Stratfor, 6/29,
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">[[http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan]])</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">There is an anomaly in this strategy, however. Where the United States previously had devolved operational responsibility to allied groups, or simply hunkered down, this strategy tries to return to devolved responsibilities by first surging U.S. operations. The fourth phase actually increases U.S. operational responsibility in order to reduce it. From <span style="color: black;">the grand strategic point of view</span>, the United States needs to withdraw from Afghanistan, a landlocked country where U.S. forces are dependent on tortuous supply lines. Whatever </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">Afghanistan’s vast mineral riches</span>, mining them in the midst of war is not going to happen. More important, the United States is overcommitted in the region and lacks a strategic reserve of ground forces. Afghanistan ultimately is not strategically essential, and this is why the United States has not historically used its own forces there.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"> Obama’s attempt to return to that track after first increasing U.S. forces to set the stage for the political settlement that will allow a U.S. withdrawal is hampered by the need to begin terminating the operation by 2011 (although there is no fixed termination date). It will be difficult to draw coalition partners into local structures when the foundation — U.S. protection — is withdrawing. Strengthening local forces by 2011 will be difficult. Moreover, <span style="color: black;">the Taliban’s motivation</span> to enter into talks is limited by the early withdrawal. At the same time, with no ground combat strategic reserve, the United States is vulnerable elsewhere in the world, and the longer the Afghan drawdown takes, the more vulnerable it becomes (hence the 2011 deadline in Obama’s war plan). In sum, this is the quandary inherent in the strategy: It is necessary to withdraw as early as possible, but early withdrawal undermines both coalition building and negotiations. The recruitment and use of indigenous Afghan forces must move extremely rapidly to hit the deadline (though officially on track quantitatively, there are serious questions about qualitative measures) — hence, the aggressive operations that have been mounted over recent months. But the correlation of forces is such that the United States probably will not be able to impose an acceptable political reality in the time frame available. Thus, Afghan President Hamid Karzai is said to be opening channels directly to the Taliban, while the Pakistanis are increasing their presence. Where a vacuum is created, regardless of how much activity there is, someone will fill it. Therefore, the problem is to define how important Afghanistan is to American global strategy, bearing in mind that the forces absorbed in Iraq and Afghanistan have left the United States vulnerable elsewhere in the world. The current strategy defines the Islamic world as the focus of all U.S. military attention. But the world has rarely been so considerate as to wait until the United States is finished with one war before starting another. Though unknowns remain unknowable, a principle of warfare is to never commit all of your reserves in a battle — one should always maintain a reserve for the unexpected. Strategically, it is imperative that the United States begin to free up forces and re-establish its ground reserves. </span>


**OVERSTRETCH IS THE SCENARIO FOR HEG DECLINE – EMPIRICS AND PREDICTIVE**



**Layne 2009** [Christopher, Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and Nat’l Security at the George H.W. Bush School of Gov’t and Public Service @ Texas A&M U, “The Waning of U.S. Hegemony – Myth or Reality?” International Security, Volume 34, Number 1, Summer, MUSE ]



<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">U.S. strategic retrenchment would enable rising powers to significantly narrow the current military gap between them and the United States. Brooks and Wohlforth argue that the rise of a single peer competitor capable of challenging the United States globally is unlikely. They overlook, however, other geopolitical mechanisms that can bring U.S. primacy to an end. At the turn of the twentieth century, Britain’s hegemony ended because London lacked the resources to cope with the simultaneous challenges mounted by regional great powers to its interests in Europe, Asia, and North America and also to deal with wars of empire such as the Boer War—not because it was challenged by a single great power globally. In coming years, there is a good chance that an increasingly overstretched United States could see its hegemony overthrown by a similar process.</span>



**HEG STOPS GREAT POWER WARS AND ACCESSES ANY MAJOR IMPACT**


**Thayer 06** (Bradley A., Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, Duluth, The National Interest, November –December, “In Defense of Primacy”, lexis)


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">A remarkable fact about international politics today–in a world where American primacy is clearly and unambiguously on display–is that countries want to align themselves with the United States. Of course, this is not out of any sense of altruism, in most cases, but because doing so allows them to use the power of the United States for their own purposes–their own protection, or to gain greater influence. Of 192 countries, 84 are allied with America–their security is tied to the United States through treaties and other informal arrangements–and they include almost all of the major economic and military powers. That is a ratio of almost 17 to one (85 to five), and a big change from the Cold War when the ratio was about 1.8 to one of states aligned with the United States versus the Soviet Union. Never before in its history has this country, or any country, had so many allies. U.S. primacy –and the bandwagoning effect–has also given us extensive influence in international politics , allowing the United States to shape the behavior of states and international institutions. Such influence comes in many forms, one of which is America’s ability to create coalitions of like-minded states to free Kosovo, stabilize Afghanistan, invade Iraq or to stop proliferation through the Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI). Doing so allows the United States to operate with allies outside of the UN, where it can be stymied by opponents. American-led wars in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq stand in contrast to the UN’s inability to save the people of Darfur or even to conduct any military campaign to realize the goals of its charter. The quiet effectiveness of the PSI in dismantling Libya’s WMD programs and unraveling the A. Q. Khan proliferation network are in sharp relief to the typically toothless attempts by the UN to halt proliferation. You can count with one hand countries opposed to the United States . They are the “Gang of Five”: China, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Venezuela. Of course, countries like India, for example, do not agree with all policy choices made by the United States, such as toward Iran, but New Delhi is friendly to Washington. Only the “Gang of Five” may be expected to consistently resist the agenda and actions of the United States. China is clearly the most important of these states because it is a rising great power. But even Beijing is intimidated by the United States and refrains from openly challenging U.S. power. China proclaims that it will, if necessary, resort to other mechanisms of challenging the United States, including asymmetric strategies such as targeting communication and intelligence satellites upon which the United States depends. But China may not be confident those strategies would work, and so it is likely to refrain from testing the United States directly for the foreseeable future because China’s power benefits, as we shall see, from the international order U.S. primacy creates.The other states are far weaker than China. For three of the “Gang of Five” cases–Venezuela, Iran, Cuba–it is an anti-U.S. regime that is the source of the problem; the country itself is not intrinsically anti-American. Indeed, a change of regime in Caracas, Tehran or Havana could very well reorient relations. THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power–Rome, Britain or the United States today. Scholars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we consider the current international order–free trade, a robust monetary regime, increasing respect for human rights, growing democratization–is directly linked to U.S. power. Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history’s most significant lessons: Appalling things happen when international orders collapse. The Dark Ages followed Rome’s collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. Without U.S. power, the liberal order created by the United States will end just as assuredly. As country and western great Ral Donner sang: “You don’t know what you’ve got (until you lose it).” Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American primacy within the international system causes many positive outcomes for Washington and the world. The first has been a more peaceful world. During the Cold War, U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states that were historical antagonists , most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated relationships aligned –between Greece and Turkey, Israel and Egypt, South Korea and Japan, India and Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia. This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson’s vision of ending all war. Wars still occur where Washington’s interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, but a Pax Americana does reduce war’s likelihood, particularly war’s worst form: great power wars. . Second, American power gives the United States the ability to spread democracy and other elements of its ideology of liberalism: Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.( n3) So, spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy. In addition, once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced. This is not because democracies do not have clashing interests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is because they are more open, more transparent and more likely to want to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. leadership. And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Administration for attempting to spread democracy in the Middle East, labeling such aft effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush’s critics to explain why :democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or stabilizing influence on America’s interests in the short run is open to question. Perhaps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Afghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threatened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Washington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western-style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Kuwait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. Third, along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the global economy. With its allies, the United States has labored to create an economically liberal worldwide network characterized by free trade and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mobility of capital and labor markets. The economic stability and prosperity that stems from this economic order is a global public good from which all states benefit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well-being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable. Economic spin-offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his career confident in the socialist ideology of post-independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recognizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free market economic policies and globalization, which are facilitated through American primacy.( n4) As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. Fourth and finally, the United States, in seeking primacy, has been willing to use its power not only to advance its interests but to promote the welfare of people all over the globe. The United States is the earth’s leading source of positive externalities for the world.</span>

==Additional Cards== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ENDING THE COIN MISSION FREES UP ASSETS TO REBUILD PAKISTAN – EMPIRICS, PREDICTIVE</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walt 8/18 </span><span style="font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">(</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Stephen, International Relations professor at Harvard, “The flood in Pakistan and U.S. strategy,” Foreign Policy, 8/18/10,</span></span>**

http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/08/18/the_flood_in_pakistan_and_us_strategy)



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Case in point: the current floods that have ravaged Pakistan in recent weeks. The situation is by all accounts horrific, and could have significant long-term consequences for millions of people. It is precisely the sort of event that calls for a vigorous and generous U.S. response. As everyone knows, the United States is widely despised among broad swathes of Pakistani society. Some of this hostility is unmerited, but some of it is a direct result of misguided U.S. policies going back many decades. As the U.S. experience with Indonesia following the 2004 Asian tsunami demonstrated, however, a prompt and generous relief effort could have a marked positive effects on Pakistani attitudes. Such a shift could undermine support for extremist groups and make it easier for the Pakistani government to crack down on them later on. It is also the right thing to do, and the U.S. military is actually pretty good at organizing such efforts. The United States has so far pledged some $76 million dollars in relief aid, and has sent 19 helicopters to help ferry relief supplies. That's all well and good, but notice that the U.S. government sent nearly $1 billion in aid in response to the tsunami, and we are currently spending roughly $100 billion annually trying to defeat the Taliban. More to the point, bear in mind that the United States currently has some over 200 helicopters deployed in Afghanistan (and most reports suggest that we could actually use a lot more). So imagine what we might be able to do to help stranded Pakistanis if we weren't bogged down in a costly and seemingly open-ended counterinsurgency war, and didn't have all those military assets (and money) already tied up there? It's entirely possible that we could do more to help suffering individuals, and more to advance our own interests in the region, if some of these military assets weren't already committed. Of course, Obama didn't know that there would be catastrophic flooding in Pakistan when he decided to escalate and prolong the Afghan campaign. But that's just the point: when national leaders make or escalate a particular strategic commitment, they are not just determining what the country is going to do, they are also determining other things that that they won't be able to do (or at least won't be able to do as well).</span>


==<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">A2: Partition CP</span>== 


**AFGHANISTAN WILL UNIFY AGAINST PARTITION – EXARCERBATES TALIBAN TAKEOVER AND TERRORISM AND ENSURES NUCLEAR WAR**
**<span class="Heading3Char1"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stanizai 8/14</span></span>** – Dr Ehsan Azari Stanizai, Adjunct Fellow with the Writing & Society Research Group, University of Western Sydney (UWS), August 14, 2010, Partition of Afghanistan Is a Quixotic Adventure, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ehsan-azari/partition-of-afghanistan-_b_691534.html]]</span>, 

BBQ Under this approach, the Taliban will take over the south, but if they try to welcome Al-Qaeda back or seek to attack the north, the United States will retaliate using air bombing, drones and surgical operations by its elite forces. Partition could have an adverse impact on Pakistani military in that it will likely break ranks with the Taliban. As a result, Pakistan would reverse its current policy largely for the fear that partition of Afghanistan could turn its own Pashtun Taliban into a Baluch-like separatist movement for forming a greater Pashtunistan. The reality is that these scholar-officials have a run-of-the-mill local knowledge. They perceive Afghanistan still in terms of Afghanistanism-- the American newsroom argot of the 1960s, which was used as a metaphor for a far-away, obscure and negligible place or situation. In real life, however, Afghanistan is as Richard Nixon put it in The Real War, "has long been a cockpit of great-power intrigue for the same reason that it used to be called the turnstile of Asia's fate". Afghanistan has been an apologia for imperial miseries throughout its history. In his quest for empire, Alexander the Great was the first European emperor who rode across the Afghan mountains. After conquering Persia in six months, he found his army bogged down in an endless war in Afghanistan. "I am involved in the land of a leonine (loin-like) and brave people, where every foot of the ground is like a wall of steel, confronting my soldiers. You have brought one son into the world, but everyone in this land can be called Alexander," in a famous letter, he wrote to his mother in 330 BC. However, for all that toughness, Afghanistan has a history of partition. The country suffered the pains of partition when the British Raj drew a border (known as Durand Line) between Afghanistan and the British India in 1893. The aim of the partition was to divide and weaken the unruly Afghan tribes. More than a century later, the Durand Line remains one of the most disputed borders in the world. Pashtun tribes in Pakistan and Afghanistan have never recognized this line. In the Afghan narrative, this border represents the greatest national disgrace. Lord Curzon, Viceroy of India ingeniously predicted this by calling the border "the razor's edge on which hang suspended the modern issues of war and peace, of life and death to nations". <span class="Heading3Char1"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Afghanistan's recent history offers ample evidence of resistance against the old colonial motto: divide and rule. During the past three decades, Afghanistan has had no functioning government, but it remained united against foreign invasions</span></span>. In a final attempt, before leaving Afghanistan, the former Soviet Union nurtured the idea of Afghanistan's partition to win the war. In 1987 when I was working with The Kabul Times, the news leaked out that the Russians wanted to shift the Afghan capital from Kabul to Mazari-I-Sharif in the north and cede the south to the US-backed anti-communist guerrilla fighters. However, the Soviet leaders backed out from this strategy and accepted an unconditional withdrawal, even though by then they were in a stronger position for only Amu Darya divided the Soviet territory from Afghanistan. Afghanistan is indeed an ethnic mosaic. Except for two or three out of 33-provinces of the country, you can hardly find a place identified with one ethnic identity. <span class="Heading3Char1"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Separatism has never been an issue of concern in Afghanistan.</span></span> During Afghanistan's civil war in the early 1990s, <span class="Heading3Char1"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">when a fierce internal competition for control of Kabul </span></span>was<span class="Heading3Char1"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> raging, no ethnic group and no warlord ever called for partition. The anti-Soviet resistance in the north remained always as strong as in the south.</span></span> And let's not forget that there are millions of Pashtun in the north as well. <span class="Heading3Char1"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Afghanistan's partition would be an invitation to a Russian roulette in the regional nuclear club. It will strengthen the Taliban</span></span> beyond imagination <span class="Heading3Char1"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">and hearten Al-Qaeda for exploiting the crisis. Pakistan and India have nuclear weapons, and Iranian unpopular mullahs have their hearts set on. The ripple effects will reach China and Russia</span></span>, who are already keen on play their parts in the great game.


<span style="font-weight: normal;">**CP FAILS 4 REASONS 1) AFGHAN OPPOSITION 2) DURAND LINE EMPIRICS 3) LEADS TO TALIBAN TAKEOVER 4) PAKISTAN DESTABILIZATION** </span>
**<span class="Heading3Char1"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sareen and Singh 10/7</span></span>** – Sushant Sareen and Col. Harinder Singh are Consultant and Research Fellow respectively at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA), New Delhi, October 07, 2010, Afghanistan: A Firewall is Better than Partition, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.idsa.in/system/files/IB_Afghanistan.pdf]]</span>, BBQ 

While Blackwill’s plan is much better than the other alternatives that he has discussed (and debunked) in his article, ‘A de facto partition for Afghanistan’, there are serious problems with this plan as well. These are: 􀂄 First, it is unlikely that the partition plan will find favour with any of the Afghans. Whatever their differences with each other, there is hardly an Afghan, whether Pashtun or non-Pashtun, Shia or Sunni, pro- or anti-Taliban, who supports the partitioning of Afghanistan. Despite ethnic animosities, Afghan nationalism remains strong as ever. A partition plan, imposed by an imperial power, could therefore backfire by affecting a tenuous unity among all Afghans against foreign forces. 􀂄 Second, the Blackwill plan advocates partitioning Afghanistan along ethnic lines and calls upon the US to defend the predominantly non-Pashtun west and north and leave the Pashtun-dominated south and east to the depredations of the Taliban. The mistake Blackwill makes is that he implicitly assumes that the Pashtun areas end at the Durand line. Whereas the fact is that the geographical space that the Pashtuns occupy extends well beyond the Durand line in the east and should ideally end at the Indus river. In other words, a Taliban dominated Pashtun entity in Afghanistan will invariably extend into the Pashtun areas under Pakistani control which constitute a natural hinterland for the Afghan Pashtuns. The creation of a de facto Pashtun state in Afghanistan will result in an explosive cocktail in which radical Islam and Pashtun nationalism will combine and spill over into Pakistan, which will find it impossible to combat this new force. Effectively, IDSA Issue Brief 5 Blackwill’s plan will not just partition Afghanistan but could end up splitting Pakistan along the Indus, with a Taliban dominated Pashtun state (de facto if not de jure) in the north west and perhaps an independent Baloch entity coming into existence in the south west of Pakistan. 􀂄 Third, a partition plan in which the US and other foreign forces maintain their presence in Afghanistan, albeit in the north and west, will continue to give the Islamists from around the world a legitimate cause to continue with their war. The al Qaeda will get a further lease of life as it will support the Taliban cause of unifying the country and expelling foreign forces. 􀂄 Fourth, a war in Afghanistan between the Pashtuns and non-Pashtuns will almost certainly destabilise Pakistan, the impact of which on regional and global security has not been factored into the partition plan. Given the unrelenting and unchanging Islamist trajectory of the Pakistani state controlled by a military with a jihadi mindset, it is unlikely that US dollars will help to ‘persuade’ Pakistan to re-evaluate its strategic orientation and ‘concentrate on defeating the Pakistani Taliban and containing the Afghan Taliban’.

==BMD 1AC== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">ADVANTAGE ONE IS MIRVS </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">MOST RECENT REPORTS SHOW CHINA IS DEVELOPING MIRVS – BUT NO DEPLOYMENT YET </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Hoar 9/28 (William, China Embraces U.S. Debt and Technology, The New American, [[http://www.thenewamerican.com/index.php/reviews/903-correction-please/4704-china-embraces-us-debt-and-technology]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The Pentagon report also notes that Beijing has been modernizing its nuclear forces by adding systems that make them more survivable. For example, says the report, the road-mobile, solid-propellant “DF-31 and DF-31A intercontinental range ballistic missiles (ICBM) have entered service. The DF-31A, with a range in excess of 11,200 km, can reach most locations within the continental United States (CONUS). China may also be developing a new road-mobile ICBM, possibly capable of carrying a multiple independently targeted re-entry vehicle (MIRV).” What the Department of Defense report most emphatically does //not// say is where that DF-31 technology came from, although it is hardly a secret: the U.S. of A. Even the warheads now on Chinese nuclear weapons are believed to be derived from espionage directed at this country and our systems. Author Bill Gertz pointed out in //The China Threat// a full decade ago how Lockheed scientists had earlier traveled to China to help out the communists with problems they were having with rocket motor failures. As Gertz wrote: Solid rocket technology — like other technical assistance Lockheed supplied the Chinese — is critical in helping the Chinese develop multiple independently targeted reentry vehicles, or MIRVs. The rockets can be adapted to guide clusters of nuclear warheads launched on a single missile. As the Cox Committee stated, China has threatened to “MIRV” its warheads in response to U.S. national missile defenses. So far, China has not deployed MIRVs on its current nuclear arsenal but has shown the capability of adding up to three warheads on its new DF-31 truck mobile intercontinental ballistic missile. The DF-31 was flight tested for the first time in 1999 with “penetration aids” — dummy warheads designed to fool missile defenses. These used “kick motors,” another technology on which Lockheed provided assistance. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">ONGOING U.S. BMD DEVELOPMENT IS THE UNIQUE CAUSE </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">LaBauve 09 (“China and Japan’s Strategic Nuclear Relationship,” Jeffrey, Lt., US Navy, BA Tulane, Master’s Thesis, Naval Postgraduate School, [[http://edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/theses/2009/Sep/09Sep_LaBauve.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">These recent changes to China’s nuclear forces have resulted in some internal Chinese discussion about the future of their nuclear strategy. Medieros offers a few possibilities for changes in future Chinese nuclear strategy from offering conditions to the “no first use” pledge to development of MIRV warheads or explicit adoption of launch doctrines such as “launch on warning” or “launch under attack.” However, these improvements seem to be in response to the development of BMD and not a response to the U.S. Strategic Command’s implementation of Global Strike or other U.S. nuclear improvements. The Chinese are determined to maintain an underlying policy of minimum deterrence. Many Chinese analysts note that it is counterproductive to counter BMDs with a large force buildup and that believe China should focus on increasing the survivability of the Chinese ICBM force and augmenting those ICBMs with penetration aids. The Chinese ultimately desire to maintain a doctrinal status quo by slowly increasing its nuclear capability and the survivability of its current nuclear forces </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">MIRVS CAUSE SINO-INDIA WAR – ENABLES FIRST STRIKE, UNDERMINES STRATEGIC STABILITY </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Fravel and Medeiros 10 (Taylor, Professor of Political Science, Senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation until August 2009, and is currently the director for China, Taiwan, and Mongolian Affairs at the National Security Council, China’s Search for Assured Retaliation The Evolution of Chinese Nuclear Strategy and Force Structure, Fall, International Security, Muse) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Looking forward, this situation suggests that two aspects of modernization should be monitored, as they might signal a change in China’s nuclear posture. First, in response to missile defense programs in the United States and other countries, the Second Artillery is researching and developing a variety of technologies to defeat such systems, including maneuvering reentry vehicles (MaRVs), multiple independently targeted reentry vehicles (MIRVs), decoys, chaff, jamming, thermal shielding, and ASAT weapons.[[http://muse.jhu.edu.floyd.lib.umn.edu/journals/international_security/v035/35.2.fravel.html#f131|131]] If deployed, MaRV and MIRV warheads could affect China’s strategic relationships with other nuclear powers by increasing the options available to China for using its nuclear weapons, including providing it with additional options against smaller nuclear powers such as India. This shift could undermine strategic stability in China’s relationships with India and Russia because MIRV’d missiles, in particular, have a first-strike potential. Arming the silo-based missiles such as the DF-5 with MIRV’d warheads might also further undermine crisis stability by presenting a potentially vulnerable target for an opponent’s first strike against China.[[http://muse.jhu.edu.floyd.lib.umn.edu/journals/international_security/v035/35.2.fravel.html#f132|132]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">CHINA AND INDIA ARE ON THE BRINK – TIBET, CHINA SUPPORT FOR PAKISTAN, CANCELING OF DEFENSE TALKS PROVE </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The Economist 12/16 (“pushing back,” [[http://www.economist.com/node/17732947]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ms Rao was responding to the ambassador’s dark warning that criticism of China during a rare visit by Wen Jiabao, the prime minister, to India between December 15th and 17th, could threaten “fragile” bilateral ties. He added that these would be “difficult to repair” if broken. India’s leaders are not in a mood to listen. In Delhi a few hundred Tibetans were left to demonstrate against Mr Wen as he arrived. More striking, the Dalai Lama, their spiritual leader, embarked at the same time on an eight-day trip to Sikkim, a north-eastern state on the border with Chinese-run Tibet. That excursion, like one last year to Arunachal Pradesh—Indian territory claimed by China as “south Tibet”—seemed designed to arouse Chinese ire. China has certainly been doing its bit to provoke the ire of the Indians. It reportedly sent several thousand soldiers to parts of Pakistani-controlled Kashmir this year, to build roads for its “all-weather” ally. It has denied visas (other than ones stapled to passports) to Indian Kashmiris and to a general responsible for Kashmir, a hint that it might not respect Indian control of the territory. India has responded by suspending regular bilateral defence meetings. But Omar Abdullah, the chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, suggests going further. “Why should India have a one-China policy, when China doesn’t have a one-India policy?” he asks. “What if we started stapling passports from Tibet?” Though this is never likely to be adopted as policy by the government in Delhi, the very suggestion would make China furious. The Indians’ increasingly strong ties with America are bolstering their confidence in dealing with China. President Barack Obama visited Delhi a month ago and earned much goodwill by offering hearty support for India’s bid for permanent membership of the UN Security Council (China is distinctly lukewarm). This cosying up between India and America makes China all the more prickly. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">EXTINCTION </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Sethi 09 (Manpreet Sethi, December 2009, NUCLEAR DETERRENCE IN SECOND TIER NUCLEAR WEAPON STATES: A CASE STUDY OF INDIA, Dr. Manpreet Sethi is Fellow, International Relations at the Centre de Sciences Humaines, New Delhi. She is also Senior Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies, where she heads the Nuclear Security project. She completed her Ph. D from School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi in 1997 and was on the research faculty of the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi from 1997-2001.[[http://www.csh-delhi.com/publications/downloads/ops/OP25.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The first factor that is deemed to heighten nuclear dangers in the case of the two dyads under study is geographical proximity and a history of conflict. Located next to one another and sharing disputed boundaries, it is feared that any major breakout of conventional hostilities between India-Pakistan or India-China could increase the pressures for a pre-emptive strike or a nuclear attack being launched without proper confirmation. Moreover, since the missile flight times would only be between 8-13 minutes for missile ranges of 600-2000 kms, it would not allow either side to even use the hotline (assuming these were functional) to confirm the veracity (deliberate or accidental) or nature (conventional or nuclear) of launch. Haunted by the thought that the country that waited to use its nuclear assets might end up losing them to a disarming first strike would cause near immediate nuclear retaliation engulfing the nations in a mindless nuclear exchange.  </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">ADVANTAGE TWO IS CHINESE SOCIETY </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">THIS YEAR IS KEY FOR CHINESE LEADERSHIP – DIVIDE BETWEEN PLA HARDLINERS AND PRO-AMERICAN FOREIGN OFFICE </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Raman 10/15 B, Additional Secretary (retd), Cabinet Secretariat, Govt. of India, New Delhi, and, presently, Director, Institute For Topical Studies,[[http://www.srilankaguardian.org/2010/10/chinese-attitude-to-us-trust-distrust.html]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">One has been seeing a trust-distrust syndrome in Sino-US relations since the beginning of this year. The People's Liberation Army (PLA), particularly the new generation of younger officers who are rising to positions of senior leadership in the military hierarchy, continues to show signs of distrust of the US. This is particularly so in the Navy. In other segments of the Chinese strategic community such as the Foreign Office, the various economic ministries and scientific establishments the distrust of the US is not that pronounced. In fact, these non-military elements in the strategic community seem to be keen to keep the present level of co-operation with the US and even increase it.  </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">PLAN RESTRAINS THE PLA HAWKS – TRANSFORMS RELATIONSHIP INTO COOPERATION </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Cronin et al 99 Patrick, Director of Studies at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, The U.S.-Japan alliance: past, present, and future, Google Book </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The most vociferous opposition to TMD cooperation with Japan comes from those concerned about its impact on Sino-U.S. relations. Some China experts and arms control advocates argue that a U.S.-Japan decision to develop TMD would cause the People’s Republic of China (PRC) to incorporate into its long-range multiple-independently-targeted-vehicle (MIRV) warheads capability, and submunitions into short- and medium-range ballistic missiles, thereby escalating vertically from a strategy of minimum deterrence to a more threatening one of limited deterrence. Moreover, they point out that TMD would set both Japan and the United States on a collision course with Beijing that would undermine their broader strategic objectives for integrating China into the regional and global community of nations. Beijing has reinforced these concerns with its active and vocal opposition to TMD. Some opponents of TMD advocate an approach to Beijing that would instead be based on arms control and confidence-building measures, because this would strengthen China’s burgeoning arms control community and constrain hawks in the PLA. Ultimately, there is a fundamental difference between a China that aspires to work within the boundaries of the international community and a pariah regime operating outside such constraints. As China builds a role in the maintenance of global arms control regimes, the United States and Japan will have a stronger basis for confidence-building with Beijing related to TMD. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">HARDLINERS DERAIL HU’S ECONOMIC AGENDA – U.S. BMD EMPOWERS CONSERVATIVES </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Stratfor 05 Stratfor Strategic Forecasting, November 8th, “China’s Obsession with the Zoellick Speech,” Subscription </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">As China’s leadership prepares to implement a new five-year plan calling for the harmonization of society — the equalization of economic benefits and prosperity derived from nationwide growth — it is hoping for a stable international environment that would allow Beijing more securely to focus its attentions inward. The United States will play a role critical to the provision of this stability, and Beijing’s top minds are pondering what they believe represents a key insight into U.S. strategic thinking vis-a-vis China: the text of a Sept. 21 speech by U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick. Analysis China’s National People’s Congress (NPC) will meet in March 2006 when, among other things, it will probably approve China’s 11th five-year plan for economic growth. The plan, the first overseen by President Hu Jintao, enshrines Hu’s so-called “harmonious society” as a key goal. In essence, it promotes a massive redistribution of wealth in China in order to narrow the gaps between rich and poor, urban and rural, and between various regions of China. Such a plan is ambitious to say the least, and fraught with difficulties. Nevertheless, in order to address the growing problems caused by widening wealth gaps, population migration and rising unemployment, Beijing feels it imperative to take extreme measures to avoid social meltdown. This “Robin Hood” economic plan, however, will take money, resources and opportunities from the more well-off segments of society and transfer them to those heretofore left behind. As an Oct. 27 commentary in the official People’s Daily bluntly stated, “New reforms will affect the vested interests of certain social strata and certain regions, which means the redistribution of social wealth. Some prices must be paid for lasting peace and stability and for real harmony of society.” Given the likelihood that those “vested interests” are unlikely to sacrifice their privileges quietly, Beijing faces a showdown with local and regional governments, Communist Party officials, businessmen, and even the emergent Chinese middle class. Thus, as China prepares for changes that could spark massive internal upheaval, it is seeking a peaceful international environment — one allowing it effectively to focus its attention inward, without too much risk of exploitation or external pressure. With this in mind, Beijing is looking first toward the United States. Relations between China and the United States shifted quickly after the Sept. 11 attacks — from a diplomatic and military showdown, as a U.S. reconnaissance plane sat on a runway on China’s island of Hainan, to the relative benign neglect of Chinese issues by Washington. This peaceful pause allowed China’s leaders to carry out a transition of leadership from Jiang Zemin and the so-called third-generation leaders to Hu Jintao and the fourth-generation leaders. This marked more than a simple generational shift, however; it also marked the evolution of Chinese economic, security and international policies. On the economic front, Jiang and many of his comrades supported the continuation of the “growth for the sake of growth” policies of the past, characterized by the acceptance that economic growth was not equal and the belief that high levels of growth were necessary to keep China from slipping into social chaos. This view held that anything shy of around 8.5 percent to 9.5 percent growth would not even maintain China’s employment levels, and that any real shift in Chinese economic policies would undermine the state’s advance. The newly evolved policies — as embodied in the draft five-year plan — espouse sustainable economic growth, rather than unrestricted growth. This shift in priorities derives from the current leadership’s subscription, by and large, to the theory that the social repercussions of China’s uneven economic growth are now becoming a threat equal to or greater than the threat posed by a decline of the economic growth rate. And it is the study of the failures of other Asian economic systems — from the Japanese to the Southeast Asian economic crisis — that prompted this redefinition of the best path for China. On the security front, the Jiang-era leadership viewed it as China’s right to be a big power, to exert its influence and to counter the U.S. encirclement of China in the post-Cold War period. China’s economic growth was expected to translate into increased political and military leverage, and confronting the “unipolarity” of the United States in the international system constituted a necessity. In this world view, issues like Taiwan, for example, were best dealt with by a clear show of force and repeated threats. The Hu-era leadership has taken a more subtle approach; it views a more cooperative approach as the surest path to greater Chinese influence. This “Peaceful Rise” concept, which burst on the scene in 2003 after a series of very public debates, promoted the concept of a cooperative China, one that would inevitably play a larger regional and global role, and that would do so with as little overt threat as possible. In other words,China’s “rise” would occur more smoothly if its neighbors were not calling on foreign powers for defense assistance against this rising China. Peaceful Rise offered a way for China to try to demonstrate the economic and security benefits of cooperation — as opposed to the frictions, resulting from confrontation, that would leave neighboring states behind the curve and under the influence of foreign powers (i.e. the United States). China’s new “pineapple diplomacy” with Taiwan has been a case in point, as have Beijing’s emerging energy ties with  </span>

<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">the Philippines and Vietnam. While the generational debate continues over the concepts of economic policy and China’s global role, during the most intense period of discussion China was largely unmolested by a United States preoccupied with its wars in Afghanistan, Iraq and against militant Islam in general. This reduction of foreign pressure contributed to the victory of the fourth-generation leaders’ overall vision of China’s path over that of their third-generation counterparts. (While this debate was not entirely conducted along generational lines, the generational shift has seen the more refined and subtle views of economic and strategic policies become pre-eminent.) As Beijing now prepares to tackle the very real problem of internal inequity, it again seeks a respite from U.S. pressure. China’s leadership has suggested it can only proceed with economic, social and even political reforms if the United States keeps pressure on China to a minimum. The idea is that “conservative” or “hard-line” forces are waiting in the wings, seeking an opportunity to undermine Beijing’s new “progressive” policies. Thus, if U.S. threats and pressures — be they economic, political or military in nature — give these reactionary forces the opportunity, these forces will curtail the new economic and strategic policies of China’s current leadership, and perhaps even restore a policy of confrontation instead of cooperation. </span>

<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">EXPERTS CONCLUDE 2011’S FIVE YEAR PLAN IS KEY TO CHINA INEQUALITY </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Gold 10 Howard, China needs to step it up, [[http://www.marketwatch.com/story/as-china-grows-massive-hurdles-loom-2010-07-24?reflink=MW_news_stmp]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Every pundit and China hand says it: The next decade will be a critical one for China. </span><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">After an unprecedented three decades of 10% annual growth in gross domestic product (GDP), in which hundreds of millions of its people were lifted out of poverty as the country became the workshop of the world, China faces a more difficult second act. Its government must spread the wealth beyond the great coastal cities of Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Shenzhen to deep in the interior. It must find work for its young people while providing for a growing number of retirees. It must encourage people to spend more and save less to "rebalance" the economy away from exporting and towards domestic consumption. How the Communist Party-run government handles this transition will determine whether it will retain the support of the Chinese people, despite its inherently undemocratic nature, and avoid the social upheavals that are the bane of all authoritarian states. It will also decide how great a power China will become. I pondered these questions during and after a recent family trip to China. I have been a China skeptic for some time: In October 2007 I warned about a bubble in Chinese stocks, when the Shanghai Composite index topped 6,000. It's trading just above 2,500 now. But our trip did give me a new appreciation of how much China has achieved. It's hard not to be impressed by the glittering new buildings, smooth roads, and gleaming subways. And the optimism of the people is a refreshing antidote to the gloom and doom you hear all the time in America these days. Of course, they're moving up in the world and we're the established superpower, so there's only one way to go, right? Also, all our mistakes are cycled endlessly through cable news channels and the Internet, but in China, the government keeps a tight lid on news. Nonetheless, the government-run English-language China Daily displays surprising candor about certain issues, such as corruption, the direction of the economy, and increasing concerns about the gap between the rich and poor in China. Those are the big issues the Chinese government faces, and the crunch time is now as party members and intellectuals debate the big issues that will be addressed in the next five-year plan (oh, yes, they still have those). Typically those debates continue until the Party Congress adopts the plan, then everyone gets in line. The sense of urgency is compounded by the fact that the party leaders will be anointing a successor to President Hu Jintao over the next few years. Stephen Roach, chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, who will be teaching at Yale University in the fall, told the South China Morning Post that "the upcoming 12th five-year plan for 2011-2016 'will be a watershed for China and the rest of the China-centric region.'" He told Bloomberg that GDP growth will remain strong this year, but China must "up the ante" to boost domestic consumption, which now stands at a lightweight 36% of GDP, a bit more than half the percentage in the U.S. How? He says China needs to develop a stronger social safety net, raise incomes in the rural areas, and boost employment in the service sector. We certainly saw evidence of the latter on our trip. A growing army of hotel and restaurant workers serve tens of millions of visitors from inside China and abroad. The safety net is key. Right now, many Chinese retire early -- often with government pensions. But by 2015, there will be some 200 million Chinese aged 60 and over and a shrinking population to support them, thanks to the one-child policy instituted in 1978. With the Communist-era benefits dismantled, Chinese feel they must save more to take care of living and medical expenses in their old age. That's where the "rebalancing" comes in. "It's going to be difficult, [but] they have the wherewithal to do that," says Christopher McNally, fellow of the East-West Center and an expert on China </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">CHINA INEQUALITY CAUSES SINO-RUSSIAN WAR - EXTINCTION </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Sharavin 01 (Alexander, Director of the Institute for Military and Political Analysis, “What the Papers Say”, 10/3) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Chinese propaganda has constantly been showing us skyscrapers in free trade zones in southeastern China. It should not be forgotten, however, that some 250 to 300 million people live there, i.e. at most a quarter of China's population. A billion Chinese people are still living in misery. For them, even the living standards of a backwater Russian town remain inaccessibly high. They have absolutely nothing to lose. There is every prerequisite for "the final throw to the north." The strength of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (CPLA) has been growing quicker than the Chinese economy. A decade ago the CPLA was equipped with inferior copies of Russian arms from late 1950s to the early 1960s. However, through its own efforts Russia has nearly managed to liquidate its most significant technological advantage. Thanks to our zeal, from antique MiG-21 fighters of the earliest modifications and S-75 air defense missile systems the Chinese antiaircraft defense forces have adopted Su-27 fighters and S-300 air defense missile systems. China's air defense forces have received Tor systems instead of anti-aircraft guns which could have been used during World War II. The shock air force of our "eastern brethren" will in the near future replace antique Tu-16 and Il-28 airplanes with Su-30 fighters, which are not yet available to the Russian Armed Forces! Russia may face the "wonderful" prospect of combating the Chinese army, which, if full mobilization is called, is comparable in size with Russia's entire population, which also has nuclear weapons (even tactical weapons become strategic if states have common borders) and would be absolutely insensitive to losses (even a loss of a few million of the servicemen would be acceptable for China). Such a war would be more horrible than the World War II. It would require from our state maximal tension, universal mobilization and complete accumulation of the army military hardware, up to the last tank or a plane, in a single direction (we would have to forget such "trifles" like Talebs and Basaev, but this does not guarantee success either). Massive nuclear strikes on basic military forces and cities of China would finally be the only way out, what would exhaust Russia's armament completely. We have not got another set of intercontinental ballistic missiles and submarine-based missiles, whereas the general forces would be extremely exhausted in the border combats. In the long run, even if the aggression would be stopped after the majority of the Chinese are killed, our country would be absolutely unprotected against the "Chechen" and the "Balkan" variants both, and even against the first frost of a possible nuclear winter. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">ADVANTAGE THREE IS CRUISE MISSILES </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AMERICAN ADVERSARIES FOCUSING ON BALLISTIC MISSILE DEVELOPMENT NOW </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Gormley 08 Dennis M. Gormley, senior fellow in the Washington office of the Monterey Institute of International Studies’ James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, faculty member at the University of Pittsburgh’s Graduate School of Public and International Affairs, September 2008, “The Risks and Challenges of a Cruise Missile Tipping Point,” online: [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_missile_tipping_point.html]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">Ballistic missiles have dominated the missile proliferation scene thus far. They emblematized ultimate military power during the Cold War. Iraq's use of modified Scud ballistic missiles during the 1991 Gulf War mesmerized the public with lasting images of duels between Iraqi ballistic Scuds and U.S. Patriot missile defenses. Ballistic missiles based on Scud technology have spread widely to potential American adversaries and, as a potential means of WMD delivery, they represent significant impediments to U.S. force projection and a potent means of future coercive diplomacy. An epidemic of cruise missile proliferation would aggravate matters gravely. If the use of large numbers of LACMs becomes a major feature of military operations in the next decade, a combination of cruise and ballistic missile attacks, even with conventional payloads, could make early entry into regional bases of operation increasingly problematic. Nuclear, and possibly biological, payloads would produce catastrophic consequences. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">CONTINUED JAPAN BMD DEVELOPMENT LEADS TO NORTH KOREAN SHIFT FROM BALLISTIC TO CRUISE MISSILES </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Dutra 04 Michael Dutra, Associate, White & Case LLP, 2004, “Strategic Myopia: The United States, Cruise Missiles, and the Missile Technology Control Regime,” Journal of Transnational Law & Policy, Vol. 14, No. 1 </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">Cruise missiles represent a way for Third World states to offset the technological superiority of the United States and exploit the weaknesses of extant U.S. systems. The U.S. focus on building theater anti-ballistic missile systems such as the Theater High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) program will only push nations such as North Korea and Iran, which have long sought to acquire long-range means to threaten U.S. interests, to look for an alternative to ballistic missiles. As the effectiveness of U.S. antiballistic missile defenses increases, potential foes are likely to turn to LACMs as an alternative. In the 2003 war in Iraq, the effectiveness of U.S. Patriot SAMs at shooting down approximately fifty percent of Iraqi Scud ballistic missiles launched at U.S. forces should be contrasted with the failure of U.S. missile defenses to intercept any of the antiquated Iraqi Seersucker cruise missiles fired at U.S. forces. David Tanks, an analyst with the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, notes that “[i]f we start fielding ballistic missile defense, other countries will start developing more cruise missiles. It is cheap and relatively easy.” The logical choice for such nations is to start a cruise missile program, which is increasingly technologically feasible, or to try to obtain LACMs from another source. As cruise missiles are more accurate than first generation ballistic missiles like the Scud, less technologically complex, and less expensive to develop, they are the most attractive choice for a state seeking long-range strike capability as the technology required for indigenous LACM development becomes easier to obtain. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">CRUISE MISSILES BOOST BIOWEAPONS DELIVERY </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Gormley 08 Dennis M. Gormley, senior fellow in the Washington office of the Monterey Institute of International Studies’ James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, faculty member at the University of Pittsburgh’s Graduate School of Public and International Affairs, September 2008, “The Risks and Challenges of a Cruise Missile Tipping Point,” online: [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_missile_tipping_point.html]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">Modern low-flying LACMs offer more attractive offensive options. Compared with ballistic missiles, LACMs are expected to be much more accurate (by a factor of at least ten), less costly (by at least half) and, because of their aerodynamic stability and larger footprint, substantially more effective in delivering chemical and biological agents (conservatively, enlarging the lethal area for biological attacks by at least ten times).[17] They provide more flexible and survivable launch options from air, land, and sea platforms than larger ballistic missiles, while offering easier maintenance in harsher environments. And surely the success of American Tomahawk cruise missiles in both the 1991 and 2003 wars with Iraq burnished their appeal. Nevertheless, until recently the symbolic and psychological power of ballistic missiles trumped LACMs' superior efficiency and effectiveness. As long as ballistic missiles were not seriously threatened by effective missile defenses, they maintained this apparent advantage over cruise missiles no matter how problematic their true military utility proved to be. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">NO OFFENSE – BALLISTIC MISSILES FAIL AT BIOWEAPON DELIVERY </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Dickey 2k (“Biocruise: A Contemporary Threat,” Michael E., Lt. Col., USAF, Air War College, [[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cpc-pubs/dickey.htm]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">Dispersal of biological weapons via aerosolization of the agent using spray devices is the delivery method of choice. While the agent could also be sprayed from a motor vehicle or boat, such sprayers may not achieve the optimal downwind results or cover as wide an area. On the other hand, a crop duster type dispenser on an RPV or cruise missile/UAV carrying BW munitions, gravity bombs or spray attachments might be other methods of dispersal. Delivery using explosives is probably the least efficient of all options, since heat and blast effects may "inactivate the biological agent." Also, delivery via ballistic missile may be ineffective since the speed and heat generated by the reentry vehicle or warhead could render biological weapons harmless. Effective use of ballistic missiles with BW warheads is a technical challenge, difficult to engineer. Interestingly, Iraq reportedly experimented in December 1990 and January 1991 on an unmanned aircraft, which could deliver biological agent via spray nozzles, and with a biological weapons spray tank developed from an aircraft "drop tank." Iraqi officials claimed to United Nations inspectors that the experiment did not work; however, UN inspectors found evidence the Iraqis had subsequently modified and stored three additional drop tanks. Under favorable weather conditions, with a properly sized aerosol dispersal system, an aircraft, cruise missile, or UAV could deliver BW weapons and cause mass casualties in densely populated areas. For example, it has been calculated that 100kg of anthrax sprayed over a 300 square kilometer area, theoretically could cause up to 3 million deaths if the targeted population density is 3,000 to 10,000 per square kilometer. The effects of each biological agent will be different, however, depending upon its resiliency to the environment. An additional consideration in the type of agent employed is persistency. While most biological agents are sensitive to heat, oxidation, and desiccation, once stabilized through the freeze-drying process for effective weaponization, their persistency is increased dramatically. Notably, live anthrax can be persistent on the ground for up to 40 years. Obviously, weaponization is entirely feasible. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">SUCCESSFUL NORTH KOREA BIOWEAPONS ATTACK GOES GLOBAL IN SIX WEEKS – WORSE THAN NUCLEAR WAR </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Levy 07 (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” [[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack originating from letters containing anthrax spores infected 22 people, killing five. After almost six years, the case has not been solved. Intelligence analysts and academics report that North Korea has developed anthrax, plague, and botulism toxin and conducted extensive research on smallpox, typhoid and cholera. A world-renowned bioweapons expert has confirmed that Syria has weapons grade smallpox resistant to all current vaccines developed under the cover of legitimate veterinary research on camelpox, a very closely related virus. The researcher further reports that Syria is suspected of testing the pathogen on prison populations and possibly in the Sudan. Although there are close to 50 organisms that could be used offensively, rogue nations have concentrated their bioweapons development efforts on smallpox, anthrax, plague, botulinum, tularemia and viral hemorrhagic fevers. With the exception of smallpox, which is exclusively a human host disease, all of the other pathogens lend themselves to animal testing as they are zoonotic, or can be transmitted to humans by other species. Biological weapons are among the most dangerous in the world today and can be engineered and disseminated to achieve a more deadly result than a nuclear attack. Whereas the explosion of a nuclear bomb would cause massive death in a specific location, a biological attack with smallpox could infect multitudes of people across the globe. With incubation periods of up to 17 days, human disseminators could unwittingly cause widespread exposure before diagnosable symptoms indicate an infection and appropriate quarantine procedures are in place. Unlike any other type of weapon, bioweapons such as smallpox can replicate and infect a chain of people over an indeterminate amount of time from a single undetectable point of release. According to science writer and author of The Hot Zone, Richard Preston, "If you took a gram of smallpox, which is highly contagious and lethal, and for which there's no vaccine available globally now, and released it in the air and created about a hundred cases, the chances are excellent that the virus would go global in six weeks as people moved from city to city......the death toll could easily hit the hundreds of millions.....in scale, that's like a nuclear war."[1] More so than chemical and nuclear research, bioweapons development programs lend themselves to stealth development. They are difficult to detect, can be conducted alongside legimate research on countermeasures, sheltered in animal research facilities within sophisticated pharmaceutical corporations, disguised as part of routine medical university studies, or be a component of dual use technology development. Detection is primarily through available intelligence information and location-specific biosensors that test for the presence of pathogens. Biological weapons have many appealing qualities for warfare and their effects can be engineered and customized from a boutique of possibilities. Offensive pathogens are inexpensive compared to conventional weapons and small quantities can produce disproportionate damage. They have unlimited lethal potential as carriers and can continue to infect more people over time. Bioweapons are easy to dispense through a variety of delivery systems from a missile, an aerosol or a food product. They can be placed into a state of dormancy to be activated at a later stage allowing for ease of storage. Pathogens are not immediately detectable or identifiable due to varying incubation periods and can be rapidly deployed, activated and impossible to trace. The technology to develop biological agents is widely available for legitimate purposes and large quantities can be developed within days.  </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">ADVANTAGE FOUR IS THE UPPER TIER </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> </span></span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">JAPAN ALREADY HAS LOWER TIER MISSILE DEFENSE – KILLS YOUR DISAD UNIQUENESS – BUT U.S. IS IN PROCESS OF DEPLOYING SM-3 BLOCK 2A UPPER TIER MISSILES BY 2014 </span></span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Toki 09 (Masako, project manager in the Nonproliferation Education Program at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, where she studies Japan's nonproliferation and disarmament policy, June 4, “Japan's Evolving Security Policies: Along Came North Korea's Threats”,[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_japan_north_korea_threats.html]])<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> </span></span></span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Japan has deployed a multi-layered missile defense system consisting of sea-based mid-course missile defense (the Aegis BMD system) and ground-based terminal phase systems (PAC-3). With the accelerated process, PAC-3 installment in the Tokyo Metropolitan area was completed in March 2008. By March 2011, PAC-3 missiles will be deployed with 16 fire units around Japan's major cities. So far, PAC-3 systems have been deployed in 7 sites. [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_japan_north_korea_threats.html#fn4|[4]]] Moreover, Japan conducted its first test-firing of the PAC-3 interceptor at White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico on 17 September 2008. At the test, Japan's Air Self-Defense Force successfully shot down a mock ballistic missile.[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_japan_north_korea_threats.html#fn5|[5]]] Aegis BMD features the Standard Missile 3 (SM-3), a three-stage missile with a range of 1000 km that is said to be capable of intercepting missiles up to an altitude of 200 km or higher. The SM-3 block I-A missile is designed to intercept ballistic missiles in outer space during mid-course flight, and with Aegis BMD, it can intercept a short to intermediate range ballistic missile. A milestone in U.S.-Japan missile defense cooperation occurred when Japan became the first country other than the United States to succeed in intercepting a mock missile with the Aegis system. On 18 December 2007, a Japanese Aegis guided missile destroyer, //Kongo//, intercepted and destroyed a ballistic missile target in space for the first time. The flight test was conducted in cooperation with the United States Missile Defense agency.[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_japan_north_korea_threats.html#fn6|[6]]] After the series of successful tests, the failure of the second Aegis missile defense test off Kauai, Hawaii in November 2008, however, disappointed both U.S. and Japanese missile defense proponents.[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_japan_north_korea_threats.html#fn7|[7]]] Despite the mixed results, Japan's Ministry of Defense plans to deploy four Aegis-equipped destroyers armed with SM-3s by March 2011. The current Japanese missile defense system is designed to shoot down medium range missiles such as the Nodong within the range of 1000 km with the SM-3. Japan does not yet have the capability to intercept a Taepodong type missile of which the range is more than 6000 km. However, currently, the Japanese and U.S. governments are jointly developing an advanced version of the SM-3 Block II-A missile to improve its defensive capabilities against longer-range missiles, such as the Taepodong. The new SM-3 is scheduled to be available by 2014.[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_japan_north_korea_threats.html#fn8|[8]]] Japan and the United States have been also discussing deployment of Terminal High Altitude Air Defense (THAAD) since 2005. Deployment of this system, however, is unlikely to happen before 2011-2012 due to financial constraints. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">CHINA IS OK WITH JAPAN’S LOWER TIER SYSTEMS – IT FEARS THE NEW U.S. UPPER TIER SYSTEM – COULD DEFEND TAIWAN </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">NTI 07</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, “China's Opposition to US Missile Defense Programs”, Last Copyrighted 2007, [[http://www.nti.org/db/china/mdpos.htm#China%27s%20Opposition%20to%20TMD%20in%20Japan]],] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China's position on TMD is largely influenced by its profound mistrust of Japan, which dates back to the Japanese annexation of Manchuria in 1931 and atrocities committed during World War II.</span></span><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;"> Ambassador Sha has stated, "We are still suffering from our nightmare with Japan since the war. These are a people who even deny the fact that there was something called the Nanking Massacre; some of them feel it didn't happen at all. <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">So how can we have any confidence in a country like that?"21 Despite China's strong opposition to TMD cooperation with Japan, PRC officials have indicated a willingness to accept deployment of lower-tier TMD in Japan</span></span>. <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">China considers lower-tier theater missile defenses to be "legitimate" missile defenses since these systems have a limited footprint that can only protect small areas such as military bases and troop deployments from missile attack</span></span>s.22 <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">China's concerns about Japan's development of an upper-tier TMD system, especially a sea-based one, are based on the fear that such a system would also be capable of defending Taiwan in the event of a missile attack from the mainland.</span></span> The US Navy's Theater Wide (NTW) system could be based in Japan but still be easily deployed near Taiwan. <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">According to a 1999 Pentagon report, one Aegis cruiser equipped with the NTW system could defend all of Taiwan. </span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">SCENARIO ONE IS CHINA FIRST STRIKE </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">UPPER TIER DEFENSE THREATENS LOSS OF CHINESE ICBM DETERRENT – LEADERS FEAR U.S. FIRST STRIKE </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;">Zhang 05</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Hui, Research associate in the Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government., December, “Action/Reaction: U.S. Space Weaponization and China”, [[http://www.armscontrol.org/print/1943]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">A Loss of Strategic Nuclear Deterrent Capability Many Chinese officials assume that China is the real target for U.S. missile defense and space planning. From Beijing’s perspective, it is inconceivable that Washington would expend such massive resources on a system that would be purely defensive and aimed only at “rogue” states. As seen by Chinese leaders, China’s own small strategic nuclear arsenal appears to be a much more plausible target for U.S. missile defenses.[11] Chinese experts are concerned that even a limited missile defense system could neutralize China’s fewer than two dozen single-warhead ICBMs that are capable of reaching the United States. “It is evident that the U.S. [national missile defense] will seriously undermine the effectiveness of China’s limited nuclear capability from the first day of its deployment,” said Ambassador Sha Zukang, the former director-general of the Department of Arms Control and Disarmament at the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. “This cannot but cause grave concerns to China,” he said.[12] Some Chinese fear that, whether or not the U.S. missile defenses are as effective as planned, U.S. decision-makers could act rashly and risk a disarming first strike once the system is operational. Beijing is particularly concerned about the refusal of the United States, unlike China, to declare a no-first-use nuclear policy. The Bush administration’s 2001 Nuclear Posture Review (NPR) feeds these anxieties. The NPR specifically mentions the possibility of using nuclear weapons during a conflict in the Taiwan Strait and the possible use of tactical nuclear weapons. The Pentagon’s draft Doctrine on Joint Nuclear Operations would maintain an aggressive nuclear posture including the possible use of nuclear weapons to pre-empt an adversary’s attack with weapons of mass destruction and increasing the role of such weapons in regional (theater) nuclear operations.[13] Thus, some experts fret that the U.S. policy of possible first use of nuclear weapons, in combination with its missiles defenses and a lowered nuclear threshold, could encourage Washington to resort to the threat or use of nuclear weapons against China over Taiwan. U.S. plans for global force projection would pose another threat to China. Some proposed space weapons such as common aero vehicles would be used to target hard and deeply buried as well as mobile targets. Such weapons would pose a major threat to the nuclear arsenal of mobile ICBMs that China is in the process of developing. Consequently, China worries that the combination of future U.S. space weapons and its missile defense system could subject China to political or strategic blackmail. Such systems would give the United States much more freedom to intervene in China’s affairs, including undermining China’s efforts at reunification with Taiwan. This concern is enhanced by U.S. moves in recent years to boost cooperation in research and development of advanced theater missile defense with Japan and potentially with Taiwan.  </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">CAUSES CHINA FIRST STRIKE – DOCTRINE ANALYSIS PROVES </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Winn 08 (Jan 27th, 2008, Patrick Winn, Staff Writer, [[@http://www.airforcetimes.com/news/2008/01/airforce_china_strategy_080121/|http://www.airforcetimes.com/news/20...rategy_080121/]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">No principle is as routinely and uniformly emphasized in Chinese writings on the demands of high-technology local war as the need for the PLA to seize the initiative from the outset of a conflict. Although official Chinese doctrine holds that, at the strategic level, China will never initiate a conflict, Chinese military observers view seizing the initiative at the operational level to be an imperative if they hope to have any chance of success, particularly against an adversary as potent as the United States. As one //Liberation Army Daily// article argues, “in a high-tech local war, a belligerent which adopts a passive defensive strategy and launches no offensive against the enemy is bound to fold its hands and await destruction” (Huang, 1999, p. 6). The risks of passively waiting for the enemy to complete deployment and buildup of forces are potentially devastating. Once the U.S. marshals its forces, the PLA would find itself in an untenable position. In the words of one Chinese analyst (Lu, 1996), if [the PLA] just sits there and waits for the enemy to complete assembling its full array of troops, China’s fighting potential will certainly be more severely jeopardized because the enemy will then be in a position to put its overall combat superiority to good use, making it more difficult for China to win the war. Moreover, “for the weaker party, waiting for the enemy to deliver the first blow will have disastrous consequences and may even put it in a passive situation from which it will never be able to get out” (Lu, 1996). Chinese strategists recognize that attaining some degree of surprise may be necessary to effectively seize the initiative in a conflict with an adversary as powerful as the United States. Indeed, numerous Chinese strategists emphasize 􀟎􀼛􀠊􃚰 [achieving victory through surprise] by striking at an unexpected time and in an unanticipated place.12 In one recent internal volume (Wang and Zhang, 2000, pp. 108–110), Chinese military writers highlight the importance of surprise, defining it and describing its potential results as follows: Taking the enemy by surprise would catch it unprepared and cause confusion within and huge psychological pressure on the enemy and would help one win relatively large victories at relatively small costs. [authors’ translation] Wang and Zhang (2000, pp. 108–110) further states that, once surprise is achieved, the PLA must exploit it decisively as quickly as possible: Under modern conditions, it is difficult to sustain surprise, which can only exist at the beginning. Therefore, once surprise is achieved, one must move quickly to exploit and expand the initial battle success, so as not to let the enemy regain its footing from the confusion. [authors’ translation] How China will be able to conduct such operations in the face of the clear superiority the U.S. military holds over Chinese forces remains a problem. Chinese analysts express their concerns that surprise is becoming more difficult to achieve, although they assess that it is still possible. According to Wang and Zhang (2000, pp. 108–110), disguising one’s own intent well is an important element of taking the enemy by surprise. The objective of disguising one’s intent can be achieved through camouflage, deception, feint, and under bad weather. Although it has become more difficult to disguise one’s intent under modern conditions, modern campaign practice has proved that it is still possible to take the enemy by surprise through excellent stratagem, smart camouflage, deception, feint, and under bad weather conditions. With developments in disguising technology and equipment, it is particularly important to deceive and mislead the enemy by high-technology means so as to truly hide one’s intent and achieve victory by taking the enemy by surprise. [authors’ translation] In terms of timing, it is critical to strike before the superior adversary has a chance to initiate its own attack or when it is still deploying its forces and building up its strength. According to one Chinese writer, “the enemy is most vulnerable during the early phase of the war when it is still deploying troops and making operational preparations” (Lu, 1996). Similarly, the authors of a Chinese book on U.S. military strategy (Pan and Sun, 1994, p. 238) view the deployment phase as a critical period of weakness for the United States: In the opening stage, it is  </span>

<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">impossible to rapidly transfer enormous forces to the battlefield. Thus [the United States] is unable to establish superiority of forces and firepower, and it is easy for the U.S. military to be forced into a passive position from the start; this could very possibly have an impact on the process and outcome of the conflict. [authors’ translation] To this end, one possibility mentioned in an internal volume is using a military exercise as 􁥽􁡸 [cover] for the preparations that would precede an attack (Wang and Zhang, 2000, p. 330). This is the point at which the logic of preemptive attack begins to assert itself in Chinese writings. A number of Chinese authors describe preemptive attack as a necessary and logical strategy for a less-advanced country to utilize against a more-powerful adversary. If future wars will be decided largely by the outcome of the initial engagement or campaign, attempting to take the initiative after hostilities have commenced seems a risky strategy, particularly for the weaker side. A quick strike prior to or quickly following the formal declaration of hostilities will disrupt U.S. deployment of forces to the region, place the United States in a passive position, and deliver a psychological shock to the United States and its allies. As Lu (1996) argues, this makes it imperative that China launch a preemptive strike by taking advantage of the window of opportunity present before the enemy acquires a high-tech edge or develops a full-fledged combat capability in the war zone. Through a preemptive strike, China can put good timing and geographical location and the support of the people to good use by making a series of offensive moves to destroy the enemy’s ability to deploy high-tech weapons and troops and limit its ability to acquire a high-tech edge in the war zone, thus weakening its capacity to mount a powerful offensive. This is the only way to steer the course of the war in a direction favorable to China. Iraq’s fate in the first Gulf War provided ample evidence to Chinese strategists of the perils of not seizing the initiative from the beginning of the conflict. Many Chinese assessments of the first Gulf War argue that Iraq would have had a better chance of defeating the United States if it had launched a preemptive attack instead of waiting for the United States to deliver the first blow. Chinese analysts assess that Iraq missed the opportunity to attack U.S. and coalition forces while they were deploying to the region (Jiang, 1997, pp. 151–152). According to Lu (1996), in the Gulf War, Iraq suffered from passive strategic guidance and overlooked the importance of seizing the initiative and launching a preemptive attack. In doing so, it missed a good opportunity to turn the war around and change its outcome. For the PLA, the U.S. deployment phase represents a window of opportunity that can be exploited through preemptive attack. Accordingly, one Chinese analyst wrote the following (Lu, 1996): an effective strategy by which the weaker party can overcome its more-powerful enemy is to take advantage of serious gaps in the deployment of forces by the enemy with a high-tech edge by launching a preemptive strike during the early phase of the war or in the preparations leading to the offensive. In the words of another Chinese analyst (Li, 1995, p. 190), this lengthy period of war preparations undoubtedly provides an adversary with quite a few opportunities that it can exploit, by launching a surprise attack or cutting off supply lines, for instance, causing the enemy to collapse without a battle because it is unable to receive supplies in a timely fashion. [authors’ translation] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">OBSERVATION 2 IS PRE-EMPTS  </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">MILITARY PRESENCE MEANS OVERSEAS MILITARY ASSETS ENGAGED IN ROUTINE, NON COMBAT FUNCTIONS INCLUDING BMDS </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Thomason et al 2 (Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE? Our working definition of US overseas military presence is that it consists of all the US military assets in overseas areas that are engaged in relatively routine, regular, non-combat activities or functions.1 By this definition, forces that are located overseas may or may not be engaging in presence activities. If they are engaging in combat (such as Operation Enduring Freedom), or are involved in a one-time non-combat action (such as an unscheduled carrier battle group deployment from the United States aimed at calming or stabilizing an emerging crisis situation), then they are not engaging in presence activities. Thus, an asset that is located (or present) overseas may or may not be “engaged in presence activities,” may or may not be “doing presence.” We have thus far defined presence activities chiefly in “negative” terms—what they are not. In more positive terms, what exactly are presence activities, i.e., what do presence activities actually entail doing? Overseas military presence activities are generally viewed as a subset of the overall class of activities that the US government uses in its efforts to promote important military/security objectives [Dismukes, 1994]. A variety of recurrent, overseas military activities are normally placed under the “umbrella” concept of military presence. These include but are not limited to US military efforts overseas to train foreign militaries; to improve inter-operability of US and friendly forces; to peacefully and visibly demonstrate US commitment and/or ability to defend US interests; to gain intelligence and familiarity with a locale; to conduct peacekeeping activities; and to position relevant, capable US military assets such that they are likely to be available sooner rather than later in case an evolving security operation or contingency should call for them.2  </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;">ARMS SALES INCLUDE ALL TRAINING AND ROUTINE MAINTENANCE RELATED TO THE ARMS </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">SIPRI No date</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> - “Sources and methods,” STOCKHOLM INTERNATIONAL PEACE INSTITUTE, <span style="color: black;">http://www.sipri.org/research/armaments/production/Top100/Top1002007/sources_methods</span>.  </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Arms sales. <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Arms sales are defined</span></span> by SIPRI <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">as sales of military goods and services <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">to</span> military customers, including both sales for domestic procurement and sales for export. Military goods and services are those which are designed specifically for military purposes and the technologies related to such goods and services. They exclude sales of general-purpose goods</span></span> (e.g., oil, electricity, office computers, cleaning services, uniforms and boots). <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">They <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">include all</span> revenue related to the sale of military equipment, that is, not only for the <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">manufacture</span> but also for the <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">research and development, maintenance, servicing and repair of the equipment</span>.</span></span> This definition serves as a guideline; in practice it is difficult to apply. Nor is there any good alternative, since no generally agreed standard definition of ‘arms sales’ exists. The data on arms sales in the SIPRI Top 100 often reflect only what each company considers to be the defence share of its total sales. The comparability of company arms sales in the SIPRI Top 100 is therefore limited.  </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;">THE RESOLUTIONAL ACTOR DEFINES PRESENCE AS FORCES, EQUIPMENT AND ARMS SALES –  </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">National Security Strategy 95 (The White House, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/nss/nss-95.pdf]]</span>) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Overseas Presence The need to deploy U.S. military forces abroad in peacetime is also an important factor in determining our overall force structure. We will maintain robust overseas presence in several forms, such as permanently stationed forces and prepositioned equipment, deployments and combined exercises, port calls and other force visits, as well as military-to military contacts. These activities provide several benefits. Specifically they: 10 o Gave form and substance to our bilateral and multilateral security commitments. o Demonstrate our determination to defend U.S. and allied interests in critical regions, deterring hostile nations from acting contrary to those interests. o Provide forward elements for rapid response in crises as well as the bases, ports and other infrastructure essential for deployment of U.S.-based forces by air, sea and land. o Enhance the effectiveness of coalition operations, including peace operations, by improving our ability to operate with other nations. o Allow the United States to use its position of trust to prevent the development of power vacuums and dangerous arms races, thereby underwriting regional stability by precluding threats to regional security. o Facilitate regional integration, since nations that may not be willing to work together in our absence may be willing to coalesce around us in a crisis. o Promote an international security environment of trust, cooperation, peace and stability, which is fundamental to the vitality of developing democracies and free market economies for America's own economic well-being and security. Through training programs, combined exercises, military contacts, interoperability and shared defense with potential coalition partners, as well as security assistance programs that include judicious foreign military sales, we can strengthen the local self-defense capabilities of our friends and allies. Through active participation in regional security dialogues, we can reduce regional tensions, increase transparency in armaments and improve our bilateral and multilateral cooperation. By improving the defense capabilities of our friends and demonstrating our commitment to defend common interests, these activities enhance deterrence, encourage responsibility-sharing on the part of friends and allies, decrease the likelihood that U.S. forces will be necessary if conflict arises and raise the odds that U.S. forces will find a relatively favorable situation should a U.S. response be required.  </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">PRESENCE INCLUDES VIRTUAL PRESENCE </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Billman, 2k - LIEUTENANT COLONEL, USAF, and NATIONAL DEFENSE FELLOW </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">GENERAL RIDGWAY CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL SECURITY STUDIES </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (Gregory, “The Space of Aerospace Power – Why and How,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA394062&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">This chapter discusses presence, its relationship to influence, and how this relationship affects an adversary. This discussion is done from both general military and specific aerospace perspectives. Webster’s dictionary defines presence as “the state or act of being present.” “Present” denotes being “alert to circumstances,” and “readily available.” An entity is present when it is physically “close at hand,” or even perceived to be so. Hence, an entity can be present when it is physically so, or merely notionally so. This chapter deals with “presence” in two ways. First, it discusses the capability of military forces to be “present” in, near, or over an area of interest to the US. Second, it discusses two concepts of presence -- real and virtual -- and how they relate to the space dimension of aerospace power. Presence allows influence. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Thus the plan </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The United States federal government should ends its ballistic missile defense presence in Japan. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>



= = 
=Negative= 

=COIN B AND E CP= 

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**TEXT: The United States federal government should take all necessary steps to implement the “Responsible Transition” recommendations of Barno and Exum.** </span>


<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**COMPETES VIA MUTUAL EXCLUSION AND NET BENEFITS** </span>

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**SOLVENCY** </span>

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**RESPONSIBLE TRANSITION PLAN WILL REDUCE U.S. PRESENCE THROUGH A PHASED WITHDRAWAL, TRAIN AND SUPPORT AFGHAN NATIONAL SECURITY FORCES, AND SIGNAL U.S. RECOMMITMENT – SOLVES THE AFF** </span>

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**Barno and Exum 12/7** (“Responsible Transition: Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011,” Center for a New American Security, David W., Lieutenant General (ret.) US Army, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, and Andrew, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">To preserve the security of the United States and its interests throughout the world, we recommend a "Responsible Transition" to a sustainable end game in Afghanistan, specifically: The United States and its allies should commit to a long-term presence in Afghanistan to safeguard vital U.S. interests beyond 2011 and signal to allies and rivals a continued U.S. investment in the region. The United States should focus its residual forces on efforts to defeat al Qaeda throughout the region while supporting a shift to the ANSF leading the continued fight against the Taliban by 2014. Residual U.S. and allied forces will ultimately consist mainly of special operations forces. The United States and its allies should begin a phased transition, starting in July 2011, from a large-scale mission employing in excess of 140,000 troops to a more sustainable presence of 25,000-35,000 troops. This enduring U.S. military presence will be sized to both support and enable sustained ANSF combat against the Taliban and maintain relentless U.S. pressure on al Qaeda. The United States should support a successful NATO transition in Afghanistan that enables U.S. allies to return the majority of their forces to Europe and Canada while sustaining a limited contribution of Special Operations Forces (SOF) and trainers to Afghanistan. The United States and its allies should shift their direct investment in the government in Afghanistan away from Kabul and toward local governance. The United States should use greater political, military and economic leverage over its allies in Pakistan to drive more aggressive action against violent extremist organizations in the region.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">NET Benefit:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**AFGHANISTAN IS A LITMUS TEST FOR U.S. RESOLVE – CLOSELY MONITORED BY WORLD** </span>

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**Barno and Exum 12/7** (“Responsible Transition: Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011,” Center for a New American Security, David W., Lieutenant General (ret.) US Army, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, and Andrew, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The way in which the United States deals with Afghanistan – its first conflict of the 21st century – will be studied across the globe for any portent of a decline in U.S. power. Will the United States abandon its friends when things get tough? Can the powerful U.S. military be defeated by insurgent extremists fighting a prolonged or irregular war? Is the United States going to play a major role in the resource-rich economies of Central and South Asia, or will it cede the region to other powers and return to a post-Cold War idyll that ignores the region entirely? These questions will be asked by rivals of the United States such as Iran and China as well as by U.S. allies in the region. While perceptions of U.S. power today may prove ephemeral tomorrow, an Internet-savvy, ideologically based jihadist network with global reach and aspirations might leverage a wholesale U.S. disengagement from Afghanistan to fuel a compelling narrative of revolution that would serve as a useful recruiting tool. The second-order effects of the next U.S. choices in Afghanistan should not be underestimated. </span>


<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**COUNTERTERROR MISSION FAILS – DOESN’T TRAIN AFGHAN SECURITY FORCES AND WOULD LACK RESIDUAL POWER TO DEFEAT TALIBAN – CAUSES U.S. DEFEAT AND ALLOWS RENEWED AFGHAN SANCTUARY FOR AL QAEDA** </span>

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**Barno and Exum 12/7** (“Responsible Transition: Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011,” Center for a New American Security, David W., Lieutenant General (ret.) US Army, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, and Andrew, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Proponents of a reduced U.S. role short of a full scale exit have outlined an option that would posit a modest U.S. Special Operations Forces capability of as few as 10,000 troops to sustain a counterterrorist (CT) effort in Afghanistan after the departure of conventional forces.</span>⁶⁹<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> This argument asserts that threats to U.S. vital interests do not include the Taliban, and that a small U.S. footprint focused on al Qaeda would be able to preserve the advantages necessary to contain this deadly group while avoiding costly resource expenditures on peripheral threats to U.S. interests. The principal flaw in this argument is that it leaves ANSF inadequately supported by critical U.S. enablers such as airpower and logistics against the resurgent Taliban, in effect cutting ANSF off from its key asymmetric advantages. A roughly 10,000-soldier U.S. contingent – less than 10 percent of the current forces – would be unlikely to include sufficient airpower, helicopter lift, advisers, reserves, or medical and logistics support for either remaining U.S. CT forces or Afghan forces that will be locked in combat with a still capable Taliban. A rapid drawdown to a small CT-Plus force would also provide insufficient time to train and equip the ANSF to a size capable of successfully taking on the battle with the Taliban, an effort requiring at least several more years. The likely outcome of this option would be a Taliban defeat of the ANSF in many areas with a resultant destabilization of the government, leaving the insurgents with growing offensive power that would rapidly threaten to overwhelm any small residual U.S. CT presence. In that event, U.S. CT forces would find themselves locked in a battle for survival with an ascendant Taliban rather than focused on maintaining relentless pressure on al Qaeda. This situation would dramatically reduce pressure on al Qaeda, likely permitting it significantly greater freedom of action and space for planning attacks on U.S. soil than is the case today. Many critics argue that a limited counterterrorism approach to Afghanistan would also lead to a failed state, the return of al Qaeda and the destabilization of Pakistan.</span>⁷⁰<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> Afghanistan might not collapse, but the safe havens the United States and its allies have struggled since 2001 to eradicate would likely reappear and expand. The probable outcomes of the CT-Plus approach would undercut U.S. interests in the region, potentially destabilizing Afghanistan and forcing a major repositioning or complete withdrawal of U.S. CT forces, stripping their ability to effectively maintain pressure on al Qaeda and its local networks. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**DEFEAT OF CT MISSION SPILLS OVER TO DEVASTATE AMERICAN HEG – WITH HEG PERCEPTION DRIVES REALITY** </span>

<span class="CiteChar">Tunç 8 </span>– Hakan Tunç, Professor of Political Science at Carleton University, Fall 2008, “Reputation and U.S. Withdrawal from Iraq,” Orbis, Vol. 52, No. 4, p. 657-669 

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Reputation can be defined as a judgment about an actor’s past behavior and character that is used to predict future behavior. In international politics, a major component of building or maintaining a country’s reputation involves resolve.5 Policy makers may believe that a lack of resolve in one military confrontation will be seen as an indication of general weakness.6 According to Shiping Tang, this concern frequently amounts to ‘‘a cult of reputation’’ among foreign policy makers, which he defines as ‘‘a belief system holding as its central premise a conviction (or fear) that backing down in a crisis will lead one’s adversaries or allies to underestimate one’s resolve in the next crisis.’’7 Of particular importance to the cult of reputation is concern about the consequences of withdrawal from a theater of war. The major dictate of the cult of reputation is that a country should stand firm and refuse to withdraw from a theater of war. The underlying belief is that a withdrawal would inflict a severe blow to a country’s reputation and thus ‘‘embolden’’ the adversaries by boosting commitment and recruitment to their cause.8 Since the end of World War II, a cult of reputation has evolved among certain American policy makers who maintain that being a global power means being able to convey the image of strength and resolve.9 According to this perspective, a reputation for firmness and resoluteness deters adversaries and reassures allies about U.S. commitments. Conversely, being perceived as weak and irresolute encourages adversaries to be more aggressive and results in allies being less supportive. This logic has had two general consequences for America’s use of force abroad: First, exhibiting resolve has been deemed necessary even in small and distant countries. This is because the mere perception of power generates tangible power, thereby reducing the need to use actual physical force against every adversary.10 In the 1950s and 1960s, this logic translated into military interventions in several places, notably in Korea and Vietnam, countries whose strategic value to the United States appeared questionable to some.11 Second, reputational concerns made it difficult for the United States to withdraw from a theater of war. The Vietnam War is the most prominent case, although the logic was also evident during the Korean conflict in the early 1950s.12 As is well-documented by historians, both the Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon administrations took reputation seriously and argued that leaving Vietnam without an ‘‘honorable’’ exit would seriously hurt U.S. credibility in the eyes of allies and adversaries alike. For both Johnson and Nixon, an ‘‘honorable’’ exit meant creating an autonomous South Vietnam (much like independent, anti-communist South Korea after the Korean war) that was recognized by all parties involved in the conflict, particularly by the North Vietnamese government. Such an outcome would vindicate U.S. sacrifices.13 </span>


<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**HEG IS GOOD** </span></span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**Thayer 06**</span> (Bradley A., </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, Duluth, The National Interest, November -December, "In Defense of Primacy", lexis)</span>



==Russia DA== 


**NEW RUSSIAN DEFENSE SPENDING IS AIMED AT BOOSTING INFLUENCE OVER ITS NEIGHBORS – BUT U.S. SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS CONFLICT**

**Eland 08** [Ivan, Nov, Sr. Fellow, Independent Inst., former Defense Analyst for Congressional Budget Office, The Independent Institute, http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2363]



<span style="color: black; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">But the bear is now coming out of a long hibernation a bit rejuvenated. Using increased petroleum revenues from the oil price spike, the Russians will hike defense spending 26 percent next year to about $50 billion—the highest level since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Yet as the oil price declines from this historic high, Russia will have fewer revenues to increase defense spending and rebuild its military. Even the $50 billion a year has to be put in perspective. The United States is spending about $700 billion per year on defense and starting from a much higher plain of capability. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Russian military fell apart and was equivalent to that of a developing country. Even the traditionally hawkish U.S. military and defense leaders and analysts are not worried about Russia’s plans to buy modern arms, improve military living standards to attract better senior enlisted personnel, enhance training, and cut back the size of the bloated forces and officer corps. For example, Eugene B. Rumer of the U.S. National Defense University was quoted in the //Washington Post// as saying that Russian actions are “not a sign, really, of the Russian military being reborn, but more of a Russia being able to flex what relatively little muscle it has on the global scale, and to show that it actually matters.”In addition, the Russian military is very corrupt—with an estimated 40 percent of the money for some weapons and pay for personnel being stolen or wasted. This makes the amount of real defense spending far below the nominal $50 billion per year. U.S. analysts say, however, that increased military spending would allow Russia to have more influence over nations in its near abroad and Eastern Europe. Of course, throughout history, small countries living in the shadow of larger powers have had to make political, diplomatic, and economic adjustments to suit the larger power. Increased Russian influence in this sphere, however, should not necessarily threaten the security of the faraway United States. It does only because the United States has defined its security as requiring intrusions into Russia’s traditional sphere of influence. By expanding NATO into Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, the United States has guaranteed the security of these allied countries against a nuclear-armed power, in the worst case, by sacrificing its cities in a nuclear war. Providing this kind of guarantee for these non-strategic countries is not in the U.S. vital interest. Denying Russia the sphere of influence in nearby areas traditionally enjoyed by great powers (for example, the U.S. uses the Monroe Doctrine to police the Western Hemisphere) will only lead to unnecessary U.S.-Russian tension and possibly even cataclysmic war. </span>



**OBAMA OPPOSES RUSSIAN SPHERE BUT U.S. CAN’T CHECK RUSSIA IN 2010 DUE TO OVERSTRETCH – WITHDRAWAL ALLOWS RESERVES DEPLOYMENT TO ATTEMPT TO BLOCK EXPANSION**

**Steff 10** —Centre for Strategic Studies. Dissertation on ballistic missiles and deterrence. MA, IR (Reuben, The Russian Resurgence, America and the Great Crisis of 2010, 7 January 2010, http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1001/S00022.html



Well 2010 will be a period of consolidation for Russia. It now has a sphere of influence that stretches into the Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia and Azerbaijan. Putin once said that the collapse of the Soviet Union was the greatest geopolitical disaster in 20th century history. He also said he had no intention of rebuilding that political union. The former statement was true; but we are seeing signs that the latter was just rhetoric. Putin does have political designs over the states of the former Soviet Union – the Customs Union that has just entered into force between Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan is the clearest example of this. His intention will be to eventually integrate them into a new Russian political union for it is the next logical step in Russia’s resurgence. A customs union is designed to reintegrate the industrial and strategic economic sectors of the old Soviet grid. Mutual economic benefits will flow from this and former Soviet states outside it will find it incredibly appealing to join (or Russia will make them ‘an offer they cannot refuse’). Once integration is done the weaker states of the customs union have two options - resist political integration while maintaining economic connections (a delicate balancing act), or politically integrate. What is interesting here are the analogies we can take from the EU experience. The EU economic project is intended by French and German elites to eventually create a European superpower. But to do so requires the smaller states to become subservient to the national interests of the larger members (and these interests often diverge). Absent a serious external threat it becomes very hard for the smaller states to convince their populations they should become a tool in a larger, potentially global, geopolitical game the French and German want to gain entry into. This becomes even more difficult when the smaller states are democratic - as we've seen with the referendums in Ireland and eventual acceptance of the watered down 'Lisbon Treaty' instead of the 'Constitutional Treaty'. The states Russia wants to pull back into a political union are not stable and established democracies. Therefore the elites of these states do not need to submit themselves to the will of their population. Furthermore, if joining Russia in a new political union guarantees their monopoly of power (since the Kremlin gains an interest in bolstering these elites) they will be far more willing to go along with it. In a way, former Soviet states will sue for what they can; but take what they must. The reality is that most of them are already economically dependent upon Russia anyway. Furthermore Russia’s great power relative to them means they cannot realistically resist Russian expansion anyway because, as Ukraine, Belarus and Georgia all found out, if you disagree with the political designs of the Kremlin Putin can simply shut off the gas, close down a border, deny them primary goods, or, should need be, smash them with its far superior military power (as Georgia found out). It is the will to use power that makes others fearful and compels them to accommodate one’s interests; not the existence of power itself. Putin has shown time and time again the will to use Russia’s power against its neighbours. For the elites in states adjacent to Russia (and their populations) the message is clear: align with Moscow or face the consequences. As a consequence the next state to fall back into Moscow’s camp will be Ukraine after its upcoming elections. Obama and the Afghan Surge American military power is going to be absolutely bogged down in the Middle East throughout 2010. Obama seems to be escalating the conflict for political and diplomatic reasons: US presidents cannot just declare failure and retreat – it’s not in the DNA of the American political system. They have 'to show' that they will fight 'the bad guys' as hard as they can before they can make the rational decision to remove American military power. But Obama has announced that the surge in Afghan is temporary. The 'pull-out' begins in 2011. Meanwhile the US will be drawing down troops from Iraq (which is set for an extremely unstable year). This means that, all going to plan, by sometime in 2011 American troops should be in reserve and available to be deployed to counter the Russians or to any other hotspot. But the Russians know this and it gives them one year - 2010 - to completely lock down their influence and eject any remnants of American or European influence. Whether they entirely succeed or not is beside the point; by the end of 2010 any move to remove them from their position will have to be momentous and overt. At the same time whatever Obama's plans may be they are not really his to make, for there are simply too many players now involved in the Middle Eastern cesspool of crises. The most important in the coming year will be the one centred upon Iran. An Escalating Crisis 2009 saw an escalation in the Iranian-American standoff over its nuclear program. Firstly, Obama and co. released proof of a covert Iranian nuclear plant followed by a series of highly significant leaks that seemed to show the Iranians were driving towards nuclear weapons. But this crisis also became consumed by the Russo-American standoff as Russian support for Iran became overt as it seeks to use Iran as a bargaining chip. But the outcome of the crisis is also dependent upon the calculations of Israel. If they actually believe that a nuclear Iran is an 'existential threat' they will have to act against is before it attains nuclear weapons, or at least show America they will act unless it gets tough on Iran. However, for America 'to act' short of war it needs Russian help to impose sanctions. Thus far Russia has given vague signals that it will help if the price is right. The price being American acquiescence to a new Russian political sphere of influence around it’s near abroad (which it already has). Obama and Biden have declared that they will not do this owing to Russia's declining long term geopolitical position (although its power is growing in the short term). Biden, on a trip to Eastern Europe last year, even went so far to announce the Obama's administrations intentions to support efforts by US-friendly governments in the region to counter Russia's push. That means end-game for any Russo-American alignment on Iranian sanctions. At the same time Obama is escalating a war in Afghanistan and needs all the help from regional powers to 'win' this thing - even Iran. If America can accept the inevitability of a nuclear Iran and even the eventual hegemonic domination by Iran over parts of the Middle East and Gulf region then America can do a 'deal' with it whereby it would gain Iranian help to suppress the multiple crises in the Middle East. This would allow the US to drawdown military forces and reorient them back to the greater geopolitical enemy - Russia. Therefore Russia has an interest in keeping Iran close and ensuring that a rapprochement between Iran and the US remains impossible.




**ATTEMPTS TO BLOCK RUSSIAN REGIONAL INFLUENCE GO NUCLEAR**


**Carpenter 8**
(Ted, PhD in U.S. diplomatic history, VP for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato Institute, 9/22/08, “What Russia Wants” The American Conservative)

<span style="line-height: normal;">At least in part, Russia’s actions in Georgia amount to payback for the West’s refusal to respect even the most basic Russian interests and an emphatic reassertion of its sphere of influence. Moscow appears to want two things: pre-eminence in its own region and treatment by the United States and NATO as a serious power whose wishes must be respected. Using military force as it did in Georgia is a crude way to make those points, but they were made effectively. The Bush administration’s vocal support for Saakashvili proved to be devoid of substance. Moscow demonstrated that it could coerce a small U.S. ally on its border, and Washington’s response was impotent. The response of NATO and the European Union reflected the same reality. For all the verbal bluster of those organizations, the Europeans, cognizant of their dependence on Russia for energy supplies (among other considerations), do not want a hostile relationship with Moscow. The Georgia episode underscores the limits of Washington’s deterrence capabilities, and it should send a warning about a dangerous defect in U.S. foreign policy. The reality is that the United States can do little to protect vulnerable client states in Russia’s neighborhood-unless Washington is willing to risk a military confrontation with nuclear implications. That remains true even for clients such as the Baltic states, which are formal members of NATO. At the same time, Russia must be careful not to overplay its hand. That possibility arose in late August when Moscow sought an endorsement from the Shanghai Cooperation Organization-the association of Russia, China, and the Central Asian republics-for military intervention in Georgia and the subsequent recognition of independence for South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Much to the dismay of Russian officials, the SCO refused to give its imprimatur. Indeed, the SCO statement expressed the importance of respecting the territorial integrity of countries. That should not have come as a surprise to Moscow. Several of the Central Asian countries have their own secessionist problems and do not wish to see the Kosovo and South Ossetia precedents spread. Even more important, China vehemently opposes secessionism, given its problems with Tibet, Xinjiang, and Taiwan. The SCO summit was a test of will between Moscow and Beijing-and Russia lost. That result illustrates the limits of Moscow’s power. Russia may be capable of establishing a modest sphere of influence along its perimeter, but it does not have the strength to reconstitute the Soviet empire-much less pose an expansionist threat to the heart of Europe as the USSR did during the Cold War. American opinion leaders need to curb their alarmism. Moscow’s conduct in Georgia may have been brutal, but it is not out of the norm for a great power to discipline an upstart small neighbor. There is no credible evidence that Moscow has massive expansionist impulses. And even if it did, Russia lacks the power to achieve such goals. Russia is not the Soviet Union, and it certainly is not the equivalent of Nazi Germany. U.S. policymakers need to take a deep breath, accept that Russia has returned to the ranks of major powers, and realize that Washington can no longer ignore, much less trample on, core Russian interests. The sooner they make that course correction, the better.</span>

==<span style="line-height: normal;">Victimization</span>== 


**Violence against women discourse constructs an universalized, disempowered and helpless object that permeates all of feminist agenda**

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kapur 02</span></span>** – Director of the Centre for Feminist Legal Research, lecturer at the Indian Society for International Law, Professor at Geneva School of Diplomacy and International Relations, LL.M. Harvard Law School, B.A., M.A., Law, Cambridge University,Harvard Human Rights Journal, Vol. 15, Spring 2002, The Tragedy of Victimization Rhetoric: Resurrecting the “Native” Subject in International/Post-Colonial Feminist Legal Politics, BBQ



This response has not been a liberating one. The tension between accounting for women’s multiple experiences of race, gender, culture, and class on the one hand, and violence against women as a universal phenomenon on the other, is resolved through the victim subject. Difference is acknowledged through the different experiences of violence that the victim is exposed to in diverse economic, social, and cultural settings. While VAW operates as something of an equalizer, it also sets up a subject who is thoroughly disempowered and helpless. This subject, in turn, becomes the universal subject of human rights discourse for women. VAW either erases diversity or constructs diversities as aggravating experiences of oppression; whereas, in reality, the aspects of a woman’s life which differ from the essentialized concept may serve to alleviate oppression. As Tracy Higgins says, “In short, when feminists aspire to account for women’s oppression through claims of cross-cultural commonality, they construct the feminist subject through exclusions, narrowing her down to her essence.”[33] Gender essentialism may be used with strategic purpose, but the way in which it is being deployed in the international women’s human rights arena has had a reactionary effect.[34] By not remaining sufficiently attentive to cultural and historical specificities, gender essentialism constructed through a VAW discourse has prompted state actors, non-state actors, and donors to embrace universalizing strategies in responding to human rights violations against women. It has further obscured differences between women located in very different power relationships. Religion, for example, is of acute significance in many parts of the post-colonial and Third World, especially for women located within minority communities.[35] In post-colonial India, for example, the relationship between gender and religion remains very complex due to the increasing legitimacy of the Hindu Right and their political agenda emphasizing the assimilation of religious minorities. Muslim women are caught in the tension between their demands for gender equality within their religious community and their dependence upon and support for the community as a site of cultural and political resistance to Hindu majoritarianism.[36] Unfortunately, the VAW agenda has taken up issues of culture and religion in ways that have not only reinforced gender essentialism but have also essentialized certain features of culture and reinforced racial and cultural stereotypes.



**Victim language perpetuates the systems of oppression – A) Denies sex workers agency rendering them incapable of breaking free from the endless cycles of violence and B) Externalizes blame onto the oppressor ignoring alternate manifestations of oppression**
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Williams 04</span></span>** – (Susan Hoffman, Walter W. Foskett Professor at Indiana University School of Law, Harvard University B.A., Harvard Law School J.D, “Truth, autonomy, and speech: feminist theory and the First Amendment”, Page 80, BBQ)</span>

Although these sorts of complaints against the socially constructed identity of victimhood can take the form of the antifeminist diatribes of the popular press, they also come from women deeply committed to feminism as both a theory and a movement. As Adrienne Rich explains, “Pride is often born in the place where we refuse to be victims, where we experience out own humanity under pressure, where we understand that we are not the hateful projections of others but intrinsically ourselves. Finally, the victim perspective is crippling to feminism because it limits what can be seen and what can be said in ways that are ultimately harmful to feminist goals. Susan Wendell offers a fascinating description of the “perspective of the victim,” in which “the victim recognizes the oppressor’s responsibility and assigns blame to the oppressor” rather than to herself. This perspective has distinct advantages over the perspective of the oppressor, which often precedes it, in which the victim is blamed (and often blames herself) for her own suffering. But it also has a major disadvantage: “it can easily obscure the actual or potential power and choices of victims.” We need to be able to see the many ways in which people in oppressive situations continue to exercise choice and responsibility. We need to see their heroism, their acts of resistance large and small, as well as their responsibility for the harm they may do even while they are oppressed. We need to see things because if we don’t see them we risk falling into the despair of powerlessness. We become so mesmerized by our present and past victimization that we are incapable of imagining and taking action to create a different future. In addition, the perspective of the victim excuses us from scrutinizing our own participation in systems of oppression and thereby perpetuates them in much the same way that the perspective of the oppressor excuses by blaming the victim. The goals of feminism cannot be promoted without a recognition of the reality of victimization and the responsibility of oppressors, but neither can those goals be achieved without going beyond the perspective of the victim to the perspective of the “responsible actor” who is capable of some autonomous action.


**The alternative is to reject the victimizing representations of the 1AC**



**Rather than rendering sex workers as speechless victims, acknowledging them as part of a translational women’s movement prevents the reproduction of hierarchies and marginalization of post-modern feminism**

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kempadoo 01</span></span>** – Kamala Kempadoo, Assistant Professor in Women's and Sociology at the University of Colorado, Associate Professor of Latin American and Caribbean Studies at York University and Associate Professor of Sociology, Sex Workers Rights Organization and Anti-Trafficking Campaigns, Spring 2001 [“Women of Color and the Global Sex Trade: Transational Feminist Perspectives”, Meridians, Vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 28-51, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/40338451|www.jstor.org/stable/40338451]], BBQ]



<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">These experiences of women of color in the sex trade- their perspectives, </span></span>visions and dreams-<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;"> need to be listened to carefully by feminists</span></span> of color. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Rather than simply remaining silent and thus complicit with ren- dering them as victims or as oversexualized racialized subjects, we could, from our academic and other non-sex work locations, collaborate with sex workers to struggle for everyday changes and transformations in the sex trade and for policies and practices that would strengthen them as autonomous, knowing subjects. We could also acknowledge their efforts as part of the contemporary transnational women's movement. Legacies of </span></span>Black radical feminism and <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Third World feminism position us well to listen to our "subaltern" or marginalized sisters and to avoid reproducing the hierarchies, privileges and priorities that characterize much of post- modern academic feminism.</span></span> It is certainly possible, then, for us to reflect on sex worker demands as part of our feminist theorizing, and to collab- oratively build strategies for change.


==SOFA CP== 


**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">TEXT: The United States federal government should renegotiate the Status of Forces Agreement with Japan to increase Japan’s jurisdiction in the Prefecture of Okinawa over off-base criminal acts committed by United States military personnel.</span>**
**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">We reserve the right to clarify.</span>**

**SOLVENCY: CP SOLVES GENDER VIOLENCE- PROVIDES GENUINE SECURITY FOR WOMEN AND HOLDS MILTARY PERSONNEL RESPONSIBLE**

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">FPIF, 99</span></span>**
Foreign Policy In Focus A project of the Institute for Policy Studies Foreign Policy in Focus Women and the U.S. Military in East Asia march 1<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span> </span>http://www.fpif.org/reports/women_and_the_us_military_in_east_asia//Donnie//

//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Grassroots movements for national sovereignty and self-determination in East Asian countries have gained momentum in recent years. Women’s organizations play a key role in these movements and bring a gender perspective to protests against U.S. bases. Organizations in East Asia and the United States as well as international networks are developing alternatives to militarized security that address the security of women, children, and the physical environment. These advocates recommend a series of policy changes: The U.S. military should adopt international standards regarding women’s human rights and must take responsibility for violations committed by U.S. troops in East Asia. Military training should include substantial prestationing and early stationing education to sensitize all personnel to local customs and laws, gender issues, and violence preventio**n**. Specific personnel in each unit should be responsible for monitoring the situation, maintaining accountability, and counseling. Severe sanctions must be imposed for human rights violations, and legal investigations should be conducted by the victim’s lawyers, by independent investigative and prosecuting bodies, or by both. All military personnel must be required to pass rigorous local driving tests and provide adequate insurance coverage for full compensation of damages done to local people in East Asia**.** Until this requirement can be implemented, the U.S. government must fully compensate local victims when accidents occur**.** SOFAs should be revised to protect host communities against crimes committed by U.S. troops and against environmental contamination from U.S. military operations. This includes the Visiting Forces Agreement with the Philippines, which should be revised to protect the human rights of women and children. Congress should pass the Violence Against Women Act II **(**HR 357/S 51). Title V has provisions that address U.S. military violence overseas**.** The U.S. military should support the research, counseling, and rehabilitation work of NGOs dealing with the negative effects of U.S. military operations. It should also encourage efforts to create employment opportunities for women besides military prostitution**.** The U.S. should take responsibility for Amerasian children. American Asian Justice Act(HR 1128), an amendment to the Immigration and Nationality Act (HR 1128) to facilitate the immigration of Amerasians born in the Philippines, or Japan who were fathered by U.S. citizens. Immigration procedures will need flexibility in documentation requirements. The U.S. military should investigate contamination of land and water and should undertake cleanup to acceptable standards**.** It should conduct research into the health effects of military toxics and should publicize its findings widely in accessible language**s.** Policy debates should broadly consider the question: What is genuine security for women and children living near U.S. bases? The notion of security needs to be demilitarized. Women’s voices and a gender perspective should be included in U.S. foreign and security policy discussions as a matter of routine**.** </span>//




==<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">1NC Japan Gender Case</span>== 


<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-transform: uppercase;">NO GUAM SHIFT TILL AT LEAST 2019- CONTINGENT ON INFRASTRUCTURE</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span class="cite"> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Japan Today, 2010</span></span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**6-1,** "Marines' Move to Guam from Okinawa may be delayed up to 5 years" http://www.japantoday.com/category/national/view/marines-move-to-guam-from-okinawa-may-be-delayed-up-to-5-years </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Japan and the United States have begun considering postponing the planned transfer of</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">about 8,000 U.S.</span><span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Marines from Okinawa to Guam</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">to be completed three to five years later than the originally scheduled 2014, sources close to Japanese-U.S. ties said Monday.   The delay has come to be envisioned as the U.S. government is planning to compile an infrastructure plan worth several billion dollars at maximum for the Pacific island in July to address the shortage of infrastructure there, according to the sources and a U.S. official.</span>   <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The two countries have agreed that the transfer of the Okinawa-based Marines</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">and their family members to the U.S.</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">territory is ‘‘dependent on tangible progress’’ on relocation of the</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. Marine Corps’</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Futenma Air Station to another site in Okinawa</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Prefecture.   A significant delay in the transfer, should it materialize, could affect the replacement facility’s location, configuration and construction method, which the two countries said in their latest accord released Friday would be worked out by the end of August.   The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency pointed out in February that</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the island’s infrastructure cannot keep up with a rapid population increase likely to be caused by the Marine transfer, an agency official in charge of the matter said</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.  </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-transform: uppercase;">OKINAWAN TROOPS WILL BE MOVED TO GUAM-NAVY REPORT PROVES</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span class="heading2char"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Yoshida, 10</span></span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Kensei, "Okinawa and Guam: In the Shadow of US and Japanese 'Global Defense Posture'", Retired U of Tokyo Professor in US Politics, author of 'Democracy Betrayed, Okinawa Under US Occupation'. <span style="cursor: pointer;">[[http://japanfocus.org/-Yoshida-Kensei/3378]]</span>,</span> <span class="heading2char"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">6-28</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> To meet the “pressing need to reduce friction on Okinawa,” </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the U.S. consulted allies such as Korea, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Australia, but they were all “unwilling to allow permanent basing of U.S. forces on their soil.” “</span><span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The military’s goal,”</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the </span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Draft EIS</span> //<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">continued</span><span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">,“is to locate forces where those forces are wanted and welcomed by the host</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">country. Because these countries within the region have indicated their unwillingness and inability to host more U.S. forces on their lands, the U.S. military has shifted its focus to basing on U.S. sovereign soil.”</span><span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Guam was “the only location for the realignment of forces” that met “all criteria”—freedom of action, response times to potential areas of conflict and U.S. security interests in the Asia-Pacific region.” It was also considered “ideally” located.</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Says the Joint Guam Program Office in “<span style="cursor: pointer;">[[http://www.guambuildupeis.us/about/about-the-project|Why Guam - guambuildupeis.us]]</span>”:</span> <span class="debateunderline"> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Guam is a key piece of the strategic alignment in the Pacific and is ideally suited to support stability in the region. It is positioned to defend other U.S. territories, the homeland, and economic and political interests in the Pacific region.”</span></span>//

//<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">TURNS CASE- CAUSES VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN</span>**</span>//
//<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kirk, 08</span></span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gwyn</span><span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">,</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">author at fpif “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific” March 14, accessed July 27, 2010 http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific</span> </span>//

//<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Violence against women recurs around U.S. bases in Asia</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. A particularly brutal rape and murder of a Korean woman in 1992 led to street demonstrations in Seoul and the formation of a new organization, the National Campaign for the Eradication of Crime by U.S. Troops in Korea, to document crimes and help victims claim redress.</span> <span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Activists in Guam are justifiably concerned that such violence will rise in their communities with the proposed increase in U.S. Marines stationed there</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>//

//<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span class="author-date"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NO SOLVENCY- MAJORITY OF CRIMES COMMITTED BY NATIVES</span> </span>**</span>//
//<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span class="author-date"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gaijinass News, 10 06/12/</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**10**“<span style="cursor: pointer;">[[http://gaijinass.wordpress.com/2010/07/12/okinawa-futenma-mcas-controversy-explained/|Okinawa: Futenma MCAS controversy explained]]</span>” <span style="cursor: pointer;">[[http://gaijinass.wordpress.com/2010/07/12/okinawa-futenma-mcas-controversy-explained/]]</span> </span></span>//

//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;">Also mentioned in the WSJ’s drastically insufficient explanation was “</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">a</span> //<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">rape case”. This kind of language inflames people who know that in fact, there have been many such cases in Okinawa and will continue to be as long as The US military is there. Of course</span><span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, the majority of violent crime in Okinawa is</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">committed</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">by the 400,000 Okinawan men within the designated age range effecting violent crime. The point to consider and remember is that the US military there is a guest and its continued presence a sore point</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, a point of continuous contention for anti-base activists</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">so, it is literally necessary for all US forces on Okinawa to be perfect. This is something that likely will not occur. The case the WSJ was likely referring to, was the highly politicized and horribly shocking abduction, beating and gang rape of a 12-year-old Okinawan school girl by two US Marines and one Sailor in 1995. This was followed by additional rape incidents and charges in 1999, 2001, 2006 and 2008.</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The 1995 rape was also proceeded by horrific incident after horrific incident since the occupation of the island in 1945. Suzuyo Takasato of Okinawa Women Act Against Military Violence, explains:</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Okinawa is a place where the armed forces have learnt how to kill and hurt people in close proximity to the local population for more than 60 years. This situation breeds a structural violence, rather than one that can be understood simply in terms of the crimes of individual soldiers</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. Okinawa reverted to Japanese administration in 1972 but the violence continued, and even became attempted rapes, as well as sexual abuse in public areas and even a case where a private house was invaded. The victims included a 10 year-old girl and a 14 year-old girl. These crimes particularly after 1995, garnered massive media attention and the consistency with which they occur and the US militaries immense shortcomings in properly dealing with them and the attention that accompany them have consistently and again, rightly, tarnished the USA’s image in Okinawa and the world. </span>//

//<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span class="author-date"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NO SOLVENCY- PATRIARCHY AND SEXUAL VIOLENCE ARE INTRINSIC TO THE MILITARY- SOUTH KOREA PROVES</span></span>**</span>//
//<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> <span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">**Kirk and Francis**, 2k</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gwyn</span> <span class="author-date"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Krik and</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Carolyn</span> <span class="author-date"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Francis,</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">chaired the women’s studies program at Antioch College and Ph.D. in political sociology, founder of East Asia-U.S. Women's Network Against Militarism, “Redefining Security: Women Challenge U.S. Military Policy and Practice in East Asia”, 15 Berkeley Women’s LJ. 229, http://heinonline.org/HOL/Page?handle=hein.journals/berkwolj15&div=11&g_sent=1&collection=journals </span></span>//

//<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Prostitution</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">in all three East Asian countries under discussion here, prostitution is officially forbidden but practiced under such euphemisrns as the “hospitality industry” or “entertainment”</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The SOFAs do not refer to military prostitution even indirectly. However,</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">its existence is an important element in the “GI Towns</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">”</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">that contributes to a general atmosphere of disrespect and objectification of women. U.S. military commanders</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">and administrators</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">view sexual activity as one of their troops’ basic needs. In “Central America, Vietnam, the Philippines, South Korea, Japan, Puerto Rico, the mainland United States, Germany, and Italy the Pentagon has operated as if prostitution were a necessary and integral part of U.S. military operations,” suggesting that militarized masculinity requires regular sexual release</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">." Military prostitution is built into U.S. military operations-not as a perk, but as a necessary component.” Bases are refueling and repair depots for warships and planes; military personnel are also “refueled” by local women and girls.</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Host governments have agreed to allow the establishment of “recreation zones” near military bases or at military ports to be used by U.S. troops</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">for R & R, or as it is sometimes jokingly called, I & I (intoxication and intercourse)." South Korea serves as a good demonstration of the impact of military prostitution. The U.S. military insists that women who work in the clubs, bars, and massage parlors of the “GI Towns” be tested regularly for sexually-transmitted diseases."</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In South Korea, women must obtain a weekly ID number from an official clinic as proof of their “clean”</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">health status before being allowed to enter such bars." If they do not pass this test, they are quarantined until they do so." As further protection for U.S. military personnel, clubs and bars that employ women without ID numbers are deemed off-limits by U.S. military officials."</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The assumption is that the women are the source of sexually transmitted diseases, not the men.</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In 1989, roughly 18,000 women in South Korea were registered with the local health authorities, and, thus able to work in the bars and clubs.” ln 1999, it was estimated that “over 10,000 domestic women and 2,000 immigrant women serve[d] as sex providers in Kyiclfon” [GI Towns] in South Korea.” Typically these are women who come from poor, rural families and who move to urban areas to work in factories. They are drawn to the bars as a way of making more money than they could at factory jobs." Military prostitution “[buys] off women . . . with higher wages than they can earn in the industrial wage labor sector,”” and is, in effect, “a dumping ground . . . between the patriarchal family structure and the industrializing labor force. . </span></span>//

//<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NO CAUSATION BETWEEN MALE DOMINATION AND WAR</span>**</span>//
//<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Martin, 90</span></span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brian, professor of social sciences at the University of Wollongong (Australia), “Uprooting War”, London Freedom Press, 1984, Revised 1990, available online at http://www.uow.edu.au/~bmartin/pubs/90uw/uw10.html, accessed July 7, 2010</span></span>//Thur]

<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">While these</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">connections between war and male domination are suggestive, they do not amount to a clearly defined link between the two. It is too simplistic to say that male violence against women leads directly to organised mass warfare. Many soldiers kill in combat but are tender with their families; many male doctors are dedicated professionally to relieving suffering but batter their wives. The problem of war cannot be reduced to the problem of individual violence</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. Rather,</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">social relations are structured to promote particular kinds of violence in particular circumstances.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">While there are some important connections between individual male violence and collective violence in war (rape in war is a notable one), these</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">connections are more symptoms than causes of the relationship between patriarchy and other war-linked structures. Even the link between overt sexism and the military is being attenuated as war becomes more bureaucratised and face-to-face combat is reduced in importance</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. Typical military tasks in a highly technological military force include flying a plane, servicing a computer, operating communications equipment, administering supplies and supervising launching of missiles. Such tasks are similar to duties in the civilian workforce, and the need for highly developed sexism of traditional military training is not present. Military training and activity, though still containing much emphasis on brutality and obedience, is becoming more oriented to technical competence and bureaucratic performance.</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">To the extent that women can perform as competent technicians or bureaucrats, they too can serve the war system effectively. Furthermore, the functional value of women to the military does not demonstrate an automatic connection between war and domination over women: while women's services may be useful to the military, they are not necessarily essential to its survival. To get at the connection between patriarchy and war, it is necessary to look at the links between patriarchy and both the state and bureaucracy, as well as between patriarchy and the military.</span></span></span>

<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">THE NARRATIVE OF EMANCIPATION ACTIVELY PROMOTES US IMPERIALISM AS SAVIOR- TURNS CASE</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Koikari 08</span></span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">– Mire Koikari, Director of Women’s Studies at University of Hawaii, 2008, Pedgagoy of Democracy, p. 4 </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Over the past five decades, belief in the successful transformation of Japanese women’s lives provided many occupiers and subsequent generations of Americans with “unquestionable” evidence that U.S. interventions in Japan were benign, and indeed beneficent. The picture of Japanese women being liberated from male domination and gaining new rights under U.S. tutelage is also etched in the minds of many Japanese, and is understood as a turning point in the history of Japan. This view of the occupation as a remarkably generous effort by the victor to “democratize” Japan and especially its women has constituted an extraordinarily powerful historical account shaping American and Japanese self-understandings.</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">For Americans, the narrative of Japanese women's emancipation has solidified the image of the United States as the leader of freedom and democracy, justifying and promoting its pursuit of imperial hegemony in the post-World War II world</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. For Japanese, the celebration of the occupation as Japan’s new beginning, its rebirth as a democratic and peace-loving nation, has resulted in historical amnesia about its colonial violence prior to the occupation and subsequent involvement in the Cold War. In crucial though often unacknowledged ways, the</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">gendered narrative of occupation has effected a cleansing of the images of two imperial nations with violent pasts.</span></span> </span>

<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;">**<span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">STATUS QUO SOLVES- INCREASED JAPANESE PROSECUTION AND HARRASSMENT TRAINING</span></span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Chanlett-Avery, 09</span></span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Specialist in Asian Affairs Congressional Research Service [Emma Chanlett-Avery, William H. Cooper, Specialist in International Trade and Finance Congressional Research Service; 11/25/09;“Japan-U.S. Relations: Issues for Congress”; <span style="cursor: pointer;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA511942&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf|http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-in/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA511942& Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>; accessed: 7/14/10] </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;">Base/Community Relations A series of high-profile alleged crimes committed by U.S. military personnel in 2007-2008 sparked public anger about the troops’ presence in Japan. Four marines were accused of gangraping a 19-year old in Hiroshima, another marine was accused of sexually abusing a 14-year old in Okinawa, and a sailor was charged with murdering a taxi driver in Yokosuka. U.S. officials, mindful of fall-out from a similar incident in 1995, in which three U.S. servicemen were convicted of raping a 12-year-old, cooperated with local Japanese authorities by handing over the suspects and, in the first two cases, decided to court-martial the marines when Japanese prosecutors dropped charges. The officials also announced they would undertake a review of sexual harassment training procedures for U.S. military personnel. These steps appear to have defused a potentially explosive public reaction similar to what happened after a 1995 rape incident. </span>

<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DEATH OUTWEIGHS RAPE</span></span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Baber 02</span>** <span class="normalwebchar"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">How Bad is Rape?”</span></span> <span style="color: black; cursor: pointer; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://home.sandiego.edu/%7Ebaber/research/rape.pdf|http://home.sandiego.edu/~baber/research/rape.pdf]]</span> <span class="normalwebchar"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Director of Philosophy, University of San Diego</span></span> </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;">Now in light of these considerations it should be apparent, first, that rape is a serious harm but. secondly, that it is not among the most serious harms that can befall a person It is a serious offense because everyone has an interest m liberty construed in the broadest sense not merely as freedom from state regulation but as freedom to go about one's business without interference Whenever a person's projects are impeded, whether by a public agency or a private individual, he is, to that extent, harmed Rape interferes with a person's freedom to pur sue his own projects and is, to (hat extent, a harm It does not, however, render a person altogether incapable of pursuing his ulterior interests Having a certain minimally tolerable amount of liberty is a welfare in terest without which a person cannot pursue any further projects While rape diminishes one's liberty, it does not diminish it to such an extent that the victim is precluded from pursuing other projects which are in his interest. No doubt most rape victims, like victims of violent crime generally, are traumatized Some rape victims indeed may be so severely traumatiz ed (hat they incur long-term, severe psychological injury and are rendered incapable of pursuing other projects For the standard per son however, for whom sexuality is a peripheral matter on which relatively little hangs.' being raped, though it constitutes a serious assault on the person, does not violate a welfare interest There is no evidence to suggest that most rape victims are permanently incapacitated by their experiences nor that in the long run their lives are much poorer than they otherwise would have been Again, this is not to minimize the harm of rape rape is a grave harm, nevertheless some harms are graver still and, in the long run, more harmful , </span>

<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">PATRIARCHY INEVITABLE- MILITARY’S REENFORCEMENT OF MASCULINITY </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kirk, 08</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gwyn, author at fpif “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific” March 14, 20</span><span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">08</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, accessed July 27, 2010 http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific</span> </span>

<span style="line-height: 18pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">U.S. military expansion</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">and restructuring in the Asia-Pacific region serve patriarchal U.S. goals of “full spectrum dominance.” Allied governments are bribed, flattered, threatened, or coerced into participating in this project. Even the apparently willing governments are junior partners who must, in an unequal relationship, shoulder the costs of U.S. military policies. For the U.S. military, land and bodies are so much raw material to use and discard without responsibility or serious consequences to those in power.</span> <span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Regardless of gender, soldiers are trained to dehumanize others so that</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, if ordered,</span> <span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">they can kill them</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span> <span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Sexual abuse and torture committed by U.S. military personnel and contractors against Iraqi prisoners in Abu Ghraib prison illustrate a grim new twist on militarized violence, where race and nation “trumped” gender</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span> <span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">White U.S. women were among the perpetrators, thereby appropriating the masculinized role. The violated Iraqi men, meanwhile, were forced into the feminized role</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span><span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Gendered inequalities</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, which are fundamental to U.S. military operations in the Asia-Pacific region,</span> <span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">affect men as well as women</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span> <span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Young men who live near U.S. bases see masculinity defined in military terms</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. They may work as cooks or bartenders who provide rest and relaxation to visiting servicemen. They may be forced to migrate for work to larger cities or overseas, seeking to fulfill their dreams of giving their families a better future.</span> </span>

**Withdrawal doesn’t provide an alternative framing – Feminist issues cannot be resolved within masculinized structures**
<span style="line-height: 18pt;">**<span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tickner 01</span></span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">– J. Ann Tickner (professor of international relations at USC) 2001, Gendering World Politics. Pp. 119-120. </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 18pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The tensions and contradictions to which Stienstra has pointed are evident in the successes and failures of women's organizing.</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">While the internationalization of feminism has been very successful in raising issues of discrimination and has made considerable strides in getting gender issues recognized by international organizations, in concrete terms women are doing less well than men in all societies</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. There was a recognition at the Beijing Conference that,</span> <span class="debateunderline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">in spite of the attention to these issues over the twenty years since the beginning of the UN Decade for Women women’s global status was not improving significantly. A significant reason for these inequalities, which continue, is that women must operate within "masculinized" organizations and structures</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.76 Since global organizing is far removed from the realities of many women's lives, there is a sense that although social movements are used to promote solutions that criticize' the state, a return to the state is probably necessary to meet the dislocations and poverty generated by the economic globalization of the late twentieth century." </span></span>

**Representations of the totalizing nature of sexual violence deny women agency and force turning to the state. This form of victimization legitimizes masculinist violence and reinforces patriarchal norms**
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">**<span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Heberle 96</span></span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">– (Renee."Deconstructive strategies and the movement against sexual violence. " Hypatia 11.4 (1996): 63. GenderWatch (GW) </span> </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">If we consider Scarry's analysis of pain and power, we can say that sexual violence represents the limits of masculinist hegemony. It is in part due to the unrepresentability of the pain inflicted-the psychic and the sentient pain- that masculinity is able to render sexual violence as social and political power. Society, saturated as it is with masculinist power, always already understands the logic of sexual violence even if it cannot know the self-identical truth of women's experience of sexual violence. We thus should be conscious of the performative and interventionist quality of our representations rather than assuming we are telling society something it did not already know. In the politicized context of the struggle against sexual violence, as we try to finish the puzzle that will represent the reality of masculinist sexual violence to the world, we risk participating in the construction of the spectacle of women's sexual suffering. If it is in the reduction of a victim's world through the infliction of pain that the perpetrator enlarges this territorial space psychically and physically (Scarry 1985, 37), then in fighting sexual violence, women must recolonize the space taken from them. This does not mean we render women individually responsible for what happens to them. It means taking every initiative to expose sexual violence as the signifier of the impotence of masculinist social power rather than as the "reality" of masculinist social power. The limits placed on women's agency through totalizing interpretations of the "reality" of sexual violence may encourage feminists to continue to turn to the very social and political institutions which continue to represent public patriarchy. Through the years, for what are clearly pragmatic reasons, women have with increasing frequency turned to the "legitimate" violence and paternalistic protection of the state. They turn to the courts for punitive justice against batterers and to the social service industry for physical and psychic sustenance. Feminism knows that these institutions are the representative sites of patriarchal rule, but antiviolence advocates argue for the pragmatic necessity of turning to them in order to cope with the immediacy and "reality" of sexual violence.13 </span>

==Fem IR== 

**THE ADVANTAGE CLAIMS OF THE AFFIRMATIVE ARE PART OF A HYPER-MASCULINE CONCEPTION OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AS A COLLECTION OF THREATS WHICH CAN ONLY BE EMASCULATED BY EXTENDING OUR POLITICAL AND MILITARY DOMINATION. THEIR DEMAND FOR HEGEMONY OVER THE WORLD LOGICALLY EXTENDS TO “THE ELIMINATION OF ALL THAT IS FOREIGN”**
**Steans 98** – Senior Lecturer in International Relations Theory, Director of the Graduate School for the University of Birmingham, (Jill, Gender and International Relations, An Introduction, page 108-109) 

Critical approaches to International Relations criticize the state centrism of realism, not only because it is inherently reductionist, but also because it presents a view of the state as a concrete entity with interests and agency. Not only does the state act, but the state acts in the national interest. Those who adopt critical approaches view the state in dynamic rather than static terms, 15 as a ‘process’ rather than a ‘thing’. The ‘state’ does not exist in any concrete sense; rather it is ‘made’. The state is made by the processes and practices involved in constructing boundaries and identities, differentiating between the ‘inside’ and the ‘outside’. Andrew Linklater has recently argued that critical approaches to the study of International Relations centre around understanding the processes of ‘inclusion’ and ‘exclusion’, which have in a sense always been the central concerns of the discipline. However, as Linklater contends, critical theorists understand that these processes have also worked to ‘include’ and ‘exclude’ people on the basis of race, class and gender. In the ‘making’ of the state the construction of the hostile ‘other’ which is threatening and dangerous is central to the making of identities and the securing of boundaries. Indeed, David Campbell argues that the legitimation of state power demands the construction of danger ‘outside’. The state requires this ‘discourse of danger’ to secure its identity and for the legitimation of state power. The consequence of this is that threats to security in realist and neo-realist thinking are all seen to be in the external realm and citizenship becomes synonymous with loyalty to the nation-state and the elimination of all that is foreign. Jean Elshtain has argued that the problems of war and the difficulties of achieving security in the so-called ‘anarchy’ of the international realm, should not be seen as problems which are not rooted in the compulsion of interstate relations as such. Rather, they arise from ‘the ordering of modern, technological society’ in which political elites have sought to control the masses by the implementation of ‘the mechanism of the perfect army’. Elshtain argues that to see war as a continuation of politics by other means, is to see a continuation of the ‘military model’ as a means of preventing civil disorder. In critiquing dominant conceptions of security in International Relations, feminists have, to some extent, echoed the arguments of non-feminist critical thinkers, but have been concerned to show what is lost from our understanding of security when gender is omitted. As was noted in chapter 4, feminist political theorists have demonstrated that in much Western political thought the conception of politics and the public realm is a ‘barracks community’, a realm defined in opposition to the disorderly forces which threaten its existence.22 This same conception of politics is constructed out of masculine hostility towards the female ‘Other’. One sees in the development of this political discourse a deeply gendered subtext in which the citizen role is in all cases identified with the male.23 Hartsock believes that this sets a hostile and combative dualism at the heart of the community men construct and by which they come to understand their lives.24 

**THE NEGATIVE’S ATTEMPT TO CREATE PEACE BY ELIMINATING WAR FAILS—DECLARING PEACE IGNORES THE EFFECT OF OUR FOCUS ON WAR AND DESTROYING THE OTHER. WITHOUT ALTERING THE SYSTEM AND ENDING THE INFLUENCE OF MILITARISM ON OUR THINKING AND OUR WORLD, WAR WILL RECUR UNTIL IT CULMINATES IN OUR EXTINCTION.**
**Bunch 03** – Executive Director of the Center for Women’s Global Leadership at Douglass College, Rutgers, (Charlotte, Canadian Woman Studies 22 n.2, Fall/Winter 2002-2003, firstsearch)

First. what do we mean by or expect when we talk about peace? Most women’s peace activism springs up around particular conflicts and does not begin with a plan for world peace. But we must ask what are the conditions necessary for a permanent peace to be achieved. We should look at the existing regional and international structures for peace making and peace keeping, like the UN, and at the assumptions of the men who created them to see if those assumptions--like the emphasis on national sovereignty--are a sound basis for peace. We must ask what it will take to en-gender these structures and transform them into more effective vehicles in the quest for peace, security and human rights for all. Otherwise, women will always be re-acting to patriarchal wars. We face these questions today in a difficult context, made more complex by the events of September 11 in the U.S. and their aftermath. We have seen the most extensive development of nuclear, biological, and other weapons of mass destruction in the last half century—that would seem to serve as a sufficient argument for why global structures to ensure peace are now a necessity for human survival rather than just a desirable vision. But rather than being more peaceful, we entered the twenty-first century with many unresolved civil and ethnic conflicts and an increasingly militarized daily life where the lines between civilians and combatants seem ever murkier. We have sophisticated local and global terrorisms, a rise in the political use of religious extremism, an expanding arms trade led by the world’s one remaining super-power, and the structural violence of the widening economic gap between haves and have—nots. Indeed, one compelling argument for women playing a greater role in peace-building and governance today is the perception that women could hardly make a bigger mess of the world than male leadership has done over the past centuries. In this turbulent time, what then do women make of peace? The first aspect of peace is an end to violent/armed conflict--the absence of war--or what is called Negative Peace.” But this is not enough to ensure that armed conflict will not arise again nor does it address questions of what is needed to end all forms of violence--militarization, the structural violence of racial and economic injustice, or the ongoing violence against women in daily life. “Positive Peace,” on the other hand, is a term used to describe an “alternative vision” that leads to the reduction of all forms of violence in society and moves toward the “ideal of how society should be” (Women Building Peace Campaign of International Alert cited in Pankhurst and Anderlini). It is also concerned with justice and the larger dynamic of domination or power over “the other” as a mode of human interaction. Indicators of the conditions of justice and equity that comprise positive peace are spelled out in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), whose framers in 1948 saw the promotion and protection of human rights as critical to preventing genocide and war in the future. The UDHR spells out broad principles of both political/civil rights and socio-economic human rights that constitute a considerable commitment to justice, development and equality as the basis for positive peace. While we know these tights are not the world reality and their pursuit has been misused, nevertheless, movements seeking justice around the globe have continued to utilize the concept of human rights and the vision embodied in the UDHR as standards that their governments and the international community should uphold. Feminist perspectives of positive peace build on the expanding world of human rights concepts and practice. Demanding the protection and promotion of the human rights of all as a central tenet of peace- building helps to ensure that inequities be addressed and that peace should not be purchased at the price of simply allowing the prevailing military powers to have their way. Human rights principles also demand that the pursuit of justice not allow for the impunity of war criminals after a peace accord is reached. Central to feminist conceptualizations of peace and human rights is the recognition of a continuum of violence against women, in which all forms of violence are seen as interrelated. The institutionalization of male dominance is maintained by violence and the threat of violence leads us to question whether the term “peacetime” provides an accurate description of the lives of most women. As two South Asian feminists noted when responding to the question of whether feminism disrupts ‘peaceful’ homes, one person’s peace can be another’s poison’ (Bhasin and Khan). War and armed conflict bring additional violation to women’s lives, but these are linked to the gender-based violence and abuse of women in ‘normal’ life. Thus, violence against women in war brings together the subordination of females with their membership in other targeted groups, expresses women’s status as the property of the men in her community, and reflect social acceptance of violations of women more generally. Further, when violence is tolerated in an everyday way in the family at the core of society, children come to see violence as an inevitable part of conflict and a natural way to deal with differences in all areas of the social order. Thus ending the violence of militarism, war and racism is tied to ending violence in the home. These are mutually reinforcing forms of violence that must be challenged simultaneously. While it is primarily women activists and feminist theorists from all regions of the world who have pioneered work on the gendered nature of war and conflict (e.g. Elise Boulding, Jacklyta Cock, Cynthia Ealoe, Rite Menon, Betty Reardon, Simoua Sharoni, Yayon Matsui, efe.), one ‘scientific’ study by a male political scientist in of interest here. Joshua Goldstein has sought to show why there into much cross-cultural consistency in gendered war roles, even when there is great diversity of cultural forms of both war and of gender roles when considered separately. He concludes what many feminists have contended that gender and war are inextricably linked: Gender roles adapt individuals for war roles, and war roles provide the context within which individuals are socialized into gender roles. For the war system to change fundamentally, or for war to end, might require profound changes in gender relations. But the transformation of gender roles may depend on deep changes in the war system. (10-il) 

**THE HYPERMASCULINE IMPULSE FOR DOMINANCE AND HEGEMONY IS THE ROOT CAUSE OF WARFARE. ESCALATION TO TOTAL NUCLEAR WAR AND THE END OF LIFE ON THE PLANET IS INEVITABLE—NO INSTITUTION CAN CHECK IT SHORT OF CRITICIZING PATRIARCHY**
**Reardon 93** – a UN consultant and human rights education author, 1993 (Betty, Women and Peace- Feminist Visions of Global Security, p. 30-31) 

In an article entitled “Naming the Cultural Forces That Push Us toward War” (1983), Charlene Spretnik focused on some of the fundamental cultural factors that deeply influence ways of thinking about security. She argues that patriarchy encourages militarist tendencies. Since a major war now could easily bring on massive annihilation of almost unthinkable proportions, why are discussions in our national forums addressing the madness of the nuclear arms race limited to matters of hardware and statistics? A more comprehensive analysis is badly needed. -. A clearly visible element in the escalating tensions among militarized nations is the macho posturing and the patriarchal ideal of dominance, not parity, which motivates defense ministers and government leaders to “strut their stuff as we watch with increasing horror. Most men in our patriarchal culture are still acting out old patterns that are radically inappropriate for the nuclear age. To prove dominance and control, to distance one’s character from that of women, to survive the toughest violent initiation, to shed the sacred blood of the hero, to collaborate with death in order to hold it at bay—all of these patriarchal pressures on men have traditionally reached resolution in ritual fashion on the battlefield. But there is no longer any battlefield. Does anyone seriously believe that if a nuclear power were losing a crucial, large-scale conventional war it would refrain from using its multiple-warhead nuclear missiles 12 because of some diplomatic agreement? The military theater of a nuclear exchange today would extend, instantly or eventually, to all living things, all the air, all the soil, all the water. If we believe that war is a “necessary evil,” that patriarchal assumptions are simply “human nature,” then we are locked into a lie, paralyzed. The ultimate result of unchecked terminal patriarchy will be nuclear holocaust. The causes of recurrent warfare are not biological. Neither are they solely economic. They are also a result of patriarchal ways of thinking, which historically have generated considerable pressure for standing armies to be used. (Spretnak 1983) 

**THE 1AC’S FAILURE TO UNDERSTAND THE EFFECT OF GENDER ON THEIR DEPICTION OF REALITY MAKES THEIR ENTIRE METHODOLOGY SUSPECT. ACTING BASED UPON A FLAWED MAP OF REALITY WILL REPLICATE THE HARMS. ONLY BY INVESTIGATING HOW REALITY IS CONSTITUTED CAN WE DEVELOP A SOUND BASIS FOR ACTION**
**Peterson and Runyan 99** – professor of political science at the University of Arizona and professor of women’s studies at Wright State University, 1999 (V. Spike and Anne, Global Gender Issues, 2” edition, p. 1-3) 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">HOW LENSES WORK. Whenever we study a topic, we do so through a lens that necessarily focuses our attention in particular ways. By filtering or ‘ordering” what we look at, each lens enables us to see some things in greater detail or more accurately or in better relation to certain other things. But this is unavoidably at the expense of seeing other this that are rendered out of focus--filtered out--by each particular lens. According to Paul Viotti and Marl Kauppi, various theoretical perspectives, or “images,” of international politics contain certain assumptions and lead us “to ask certain questions, seek certain types of answers, and use certain methodological tools.” For example, different images act as lenses and shape our assumptions about who the significant actors are (individuals? states? multinational corporations?), what their attributes are (rationality? self-interest? power?), how social processes are categorized (politics? cooperation? dependence?), and what outcomes are desirable (peace? national security? global equity?). The images or— lenses we use have important consequences because they structure what we look for and are able to “see.” In Patrick Morgan’s words, “Our conception of FIR acts as a map for directing our attention and distributing our efforts, and using the wrong map can lead us into a swamp instead of taking us to higher ground. ‘2 What we look for depends a great deal on how we make sense of or ‘order,” our experience. We learn our ordering systems in a variety of contexts. From infancy on, we are taught to make distinctions enabling us to perform appropriately within a particular culture As college students, we are taught the distinctions appropriate to particular disciplines (psychology, anthropology, political Science) and particular schools of thought within them (realism, behavioralism, liberalism, structuralism). No matter in which context we learned them, the categories and ordering frameworks shape the lenses through which we look at, think about, and make sense of the world around us. At the same time, the lenses we adopt shape our experience of the world itself because they shape what we do and how and why we do it. For example, a political science lens focuses our attention on particular categories and events (the meaning of power, democracy, or elections) in ways that variously influence our behavior (questioning authority, protesting abuse of power, or participating in electoral campaigns). By filtering our ways of thinking about and ordering experience, the categoriesand images we rely on shape how we behave and thus the world we live in: They have concrete consequences. We observe this readily in the case of self-fulfilling prophecies: If we expect hostility, our own behavior (acting superior, displaying power) may elicit responses (defensive posturing, aggression) that we then interpret as “confirming” our expectations. It is in this sense that we refer to lenses and “realities” as interactive, interdependent, or mutually constituted. Lenses shape who we are, what we think, and what actions we take, thus shaping the world we live in. At the same time, the world we live in (“reality”) shapes which lenses are available to us, what we see through them, and the likelihood of our using theist in particular contexts. In general, as long as our lenses and images seem to “work,” we keep them and build on them. Lenses simplify our thinking. Like maps, they ‘frame” our choices and exploration, enabling us to take advantage of knowledge already gained and to move more effectively toward our objectives. The more useful they appear to be, the more we are inclined to take them for granted and to resist making major changes in them. We forget that our particular ordering or meaning system is a choice among many alternatives. Instead, we tend to believe we are seeing “reality” as it “is” rather than as our culture or discipline or image interprets or “maps” reality. It is difficult and sometimes uncomfortable to reflect critically on our assumptions, to question their accuracy or desirability, and to explore the implications of shifting our vantage point by adopting a different lens. Of course, the world we live in and therefore our experiences are constantly changing; we have to continuously modify our images, mental maps, and ordering systems as well. The required shift in lens may be minor, from liking one type of music to liking another, from being a high school student in a small town to being a college student in an urban environment. Or the shift may be more pronounced: from casual dating to parenting, from the freedom of student lifestyles to the assumption of full-time job responsibilities, from Newtonian to quantum physics, from East-West rivalry to post-Cold War complexities. Societal shifts are dramatic, as we experience and respond to systemic transformations such as economic restructuring, environmental degradation, or the effects of war. To function effectively as students and scholars of world politics, we must modify our thinking in line with historical developments. That is, as “reality” changes, our ways of understanding or ordering need to change as well. This is especially the case to the extent that outdated worldviews or lenses place us in danger, distort our understanding, or lead us away from our objectives. Indeed, as both early explorers and urban drivers know, outdated maps are inadequate, and potentially disastrous, guides. </span>

**REJECTING THE CONSTRUCTED NATURE OF THE AFFIRMATIVE’S NARRATIVES OF HEGEMONY AND VIOLENCE IS NECESSARY TO IMAGINE NEW STRUCTURES WHICH RESOLVE THE VIOLENCE TO ARISE. THIS REQUIRES REJECTION OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY IMPERATIVE AND SOVEREIGNTY. FIGHTING THESE CONCEPTS ON A PERSONAL LEVEL, IN THE FORM OF GENDER BINARIES, IS THE MOST EFFICIENT WAY TO FIGHT XENOPHOBIA AND CREATE AN ETHIC OF COSMOPOLITANISM.**
**Steans 98** – Senior Lecturer in International Relations Theory, Director of the Graduate School for the University of Birmingham, 1998 (Jill, Gender and International Relations, An Introduction, page 115-117)

Furthermore, feminist analysis suggests that what is needed is a fundamental rethink of our whole approach to understanding security. In this process, we need to understand the link between militarism and other forms of domination, including sexism. Radical feminists argue that both militarism and sexism are maintained by a world-view which suggests that men are by nature aggressive and that the social order must be maintained by force. Sexism and militarism need each other. There is a central link between the ‘ideal soldier’ and the ‘ideal wife and mother’; both take orders unquestioningly from men who have power and status and both are expected to sacrifice themselves for those more important.52 Furthermore, just as sexism is a belief system rooted in a world-view which assigns varying levels of worth to different human beings, militarism is based upon xenophobia and the denial of the full humanity of other peoples. — Militarism establishes itself in the lives of citizens as a refusal to recognize the humanity of others, just as the soldier refuses to recognize the humanity of ’alien’ peoplesi3 Radical feminists have also argued that there is a link between sexism and other forms of male violence. For this reason, as was noted in chapter 4, feminists have been reluctant to accept the dominant view of war as a discrete phenomenon arranged by diplomats with neat beginnings and endings. One needs to understand how aggression and violence are related to a cultural emphasis on masculinity and how this relates to other major divisions like race and class. This is a first necessary stage in understanding what kind of social structures can be built which work towards resolving conflicts without violence. The anti-militarist activist has to enlist the struggles against wife abuse because challenging legitimized oppression in personal relations is the most ‘theoretically efficient’ way to end militarism.54 The feminist analysis of the causes and consequences of militarization begins with an understanding that it is not simply synonymous with war; nor is it solely the antithesis of peace. Enloe argues that it is only when militarism and war are viewed as processes rather than ‘events’ that the connections between war, militarism and other processes examined by feminists such as oppression, colonization, the division of labour, reproduction and liberation can be understood.55 Similarly, it is only when these connections are fully understood that the process of rethinking security in ways that recognize the common humanity and worth of all human beings can begin, and only then will the many ways in which human beings experience violence, oppression and threats to their security be fully understood. Such experiences are, of course, structured not only by gender but also by other social relations such as race and class. As Enloe argues, the very breadth and depth makes it difficult to develop au unambiguously feminist analysis of militarism.56 However, even if it were not possible to argue conclusively that the social construction of gender is the main determinant of militarism, feminist analysis demonstrates that ideas about gender and gender inequality are integral to the way in which militarism works. When an analysis of militarism is combined with the insights derived from the rather less ambitious ‘impact-on’ approach, it suggests that women as a group might have the most to gain by challenging the forces, processes and ideological beliefs that contribute towards militarism, sexism and xenophobia, and by working to change the discourse of security. To change the discourse is to resist the notion of politics as domination, to problematize violence, to encourage scepticism towards ‘the forms and claims of sovereign states’. 57] challenge the discourse of national security is to ‘recognise the powerful sway of received narratives’ //.58// That is, argues Elshtain, to recognize that the concepts through which we think about security, war, peace and politics get repeated endlessly, shaping debates, constraining the consideration of alternatives, often reassuring us that things cannot really be different.59 As such the received narratives of the orthodoxy, ‘put our critical faculties to sleep, blinding us to the possibilities that lie within our reach.60




<span style="line-height: normal;">**Strategies**</span>

Greenhill Round 1 v. University ZA

ASPEC
Victimization K
Russia DA
Consequentialism
Case

Greenhill Round 3 v. Pine Crest MR

T - Presence
ASPEC
Advantage CPs - Space Coop and End Joint Exercises
Russia DA
Fem IR

Greenhill Round 5 v. Notre Dame MD

South Korea SOFA CP
Fem IR
Russia DA
Case


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]