[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">V- morality</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Ought is a moral obligation</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Resolution should be evaluated as a general rule.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1) Allows for objective decisions</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">2) Do not have time or resources for deliberation</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">3) If we evaluate each circumstance, larger future impacts will be ignored</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">VC – decreasing hostility between nations</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1) It is necessary that nations work together in order to solve international problems. </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">[[mip://0383ae88/default.html#_ftnref1|<!--[if !supportFootnotes]-->[1]<!--[endif]-->]] Martha C. Nussbaum. “ Patriotism and Cosmopolitanism.” In //For Love of Country: Debating the Limits of Patriotism.// Beacon Press, 1996. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The destinies of… traditions and commitments</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">2) Misperceptions of others within the international community lead to the false and subjective interpretation of morality. </span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">[[mip://0383ae88/default.html#_ftnref1|<!--[if !supportFootnotes]-->[1]<!--[endif]-->]] Martha C. Nussbaum. “ Patriotism and Cosmopolitanism.” In //For Love of Country: Debating the Limits of Patriotism.// Beacon Press, 1996. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Through cosmopolitan education… and old age</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Contention:</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Nuclear weapons increase this hostility drastically.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Subpoint A: prestige is a major reason for the accumulation of nuclear weapons.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper No. 1560 February 2006 NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND NATIONAL PRESTIGE</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Barry O’Neill </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Prestige-seeking can… motive for proliferation</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">! This results in increased hostility because nations create power imbalances which threaten the security of nations</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Subpoint B: Nations exploit their power when they possess nuclear weapons to achieve policy objectives. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**The Power of Nuclear Things** Gabrielle Hecht Technology and Culture, Volume 51, Number 1, January 2010, pp. 1-30 (Article) Published by The Johns Hopkins University Press //DOI: 10.1353/tech.0.0396// </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Nuclear exceptionalism has… space and time</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">This is empirically verified in the example of the United States.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Empire and Nuclear Weapons** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">By Joseph Gerson. Edited by [[http://www.fpif.org/about/staff#John+Feffer|John Feffer]], November 30, 2007 </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Later, the Rumsfeld… U.S. national interests</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Subpoint C: Nuclear proliferation creates instability between nations.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Nuclear Proliferation beyond Rogues** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Campbell, Kurt M., 1957- The Washington Quarterly, Volume 26, Number 1, Winter 2002-03, pp. 7-15 (Article) Published by The MIT Press</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">States in decline… a strategic one. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">This existing hostility will spur this proliferation and re-entrench negative relationships in the areas.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Campbell, Kurt M., 1957- The Washington Quarterly, Volume 26, Number 1, Winter 2002-03, pp. 7-15 (Article) Published by The MIT Press</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Existing or historic… to Russia’s misbehavior</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Nevertheless, the underlying… to worldwide proliferation</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">! The proliferation of nuclear weapons results in increased destabilization of areas with previously existing conflicts. </span>

==Negative== 

V- Morality
Ought is moral obligation

Nations are obligated to work together to ensure international stability.

What We Owe to the Global Poor Author(s): Mathias Risse Source: The Journal of Ethics, Vol. 9, No. 1/2, Current Debates in Global Justice (2005), pp. 81-117 Published by: Springer Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/25115816 Accessed: 21/06/2009 22:16

“There are three… least such assistance”

Standard is minimizing the possibility of war.

Contention: 
Nuclear weapons help to stabilize relations between nations because they raise the cost of going to war. 

<span style="color: black;">Nuclear Deterrence in the Developing World: A Game-Theoretic Treatment, Michael R. Kraig, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 36, No. 2. (Mar., 1999), 143. </span>

“The answer given… by either side”

Empirically, nuclear weapons have prevented the escalation of conflicts to war.

Nuclear Stability in South Asia Sumit Ganguly International Security, Volume 33, Number 2, Fall 2008, pp. 45-70 (Article)
As K. Subrahmanyam, a prominent Indian defense analyst and political comentator, 1993

“The awareness on… Pakistan occupied Kashmir”

Additionally, rogue nations are stabilized with the acquisition of nuclear weapons.

Francis J. Gavin, “Same As It Ever Was: Nuclear Alarmism, Proliferation, and the
Cold War” International Security, Volume 34, Number 3, Winter 2009/10, pp. 7-37 (Article) Published by The MIT Press. Pablo Vasquez

“Throughout the post-World… first-use doctrine”

**Realism NC**

Ought Means Obligation.

<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">1) Ought refers to a political obligation to maximize chances of well-being of citizens in the context of state action because moral principles do not apply to the actions of states</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hans J. Morgenthau, Politics Among Nations: //The Struggle for Power and Peace//, Fifth Edition, Revised, (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1978, pp. 4-15) </span>

“Realism maintains that…virtue in politics.”

Or, you negate on face if ought means moral obligation because states cannot be prohibited from doing something morally

<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">2) If states did have moral obligations, they are to citizens. States must act based on capabilities of other states and maximize their power relative to others </span>

VC: Allowing states to maximize relative power

Nuclear weapons allow states to maximize defensive capabilities and shift the power balance towards themselves.

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Francis J. Gavin, “Same As It Ever Was: Nuclear Alarmism, Proliferation, and the Cold War” //International Security//, Volume 34, Number 3, Winter 2009/10, pp. 7-37 (Article) Published by The MIT Press. </span>

“Too often, alarmists…and their outcomes.”


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 

The affirmative must defend that illegal drug abuse ought to be treated as a matter of public health, while the negative must defend that it ought be treated as a matter of criminal justice. 
a) mutually exclusive terms in the resolution
b) fair division of ground

V – morality

In making policy decisions, we must abide by the ethics or care.
The ethics of care involves the needs individual in their relation to the society at large.
“Joan Tronto has… of the good”
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Can Care Ethics be Institutionalized? Toward a Caring Natural Law Theory* </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel Engster Assistant Professor Department of Political Science</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The University of Texas at San Antonio 6900 North Loop 1604 West San Antonio, Texas 78249</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[mailto:dengster@utsa.edu|dengster@utsa.edu]] http://www.csus.edu/org/wpsa/pisigmaalphaaward.pdf</span>
Ethics of care is the most coherent ethical theory because 

1) It acknowledges the role of individuals in society.
“Not only does… better caring relations”
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Virginia Held</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, The //Ethics of Care//: Personal, Political, Global, Oxford University Press, 2006</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://books.google.com/books?id=3uwSL10Xn_AC&printsec=frontcover&dq=virginia+held+ethics+of+care&source=bl&ots=PryAAGKzln&sig=THue4cS3lKE6GYL0ISh4937IKWY&hl=en&ei=MIvcTOfZHsH6lwfHlv3cBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&sqi=2&ved=0CCsQ6AEwAw#v=onepage&q&f=false</span>

2) Care for others is at the basis of all societal norms.
“My own suggestions… those deemed unfit”
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Virginia Held</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, The //Ethics of Care//: Personal, Political, Global, Oxford University Press, 2006</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://books.google.com/books?id=3uwSL10Xn_AC&printsec=frontcover&dq=virginia+held+ethics+of+care&source=bl&ots=PryAAGKzln&sig=THue4cS3lKE6GYL0ISh4937IKWY&hl=en&ei=MIvcTOfZHsH6lwfHlv3cBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&sqi=2&ved=0CCsQ6AEwAw#v=onepage&q&f=false</span>

3) This theory takes all perspectives into account without arbitrarily excluding some on the basis of an overwhelming authority. 
“Caring involves stepping… his problematic situation”

VC- preventing mistreatment of individuals

Contention: 

First, treating drug abuse as an issue of criminal justice fails to treat people as individuals.

“There is no… unemployment and homelessness”
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aglin, M; Yih-Ing, Hser. [Ph.D; Research Scientist Development Awards] “Treatment of Drug Abuse” HserSource: Crime and Justice, Vol. 13, Drugs and Crime Published by: The University of Chicago Press **[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1147489]] pg. 394** 1990</span>

“All major treatment… not been demonstrated”
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aglin, M; Yih-Ing, Hser. [Ph.D; Research Scientist Development Awards] “Treatment of Drug Abuse” HserSource: Crime and Justice, Vol. 13, Drugs and Crime Published by: The University of Chicago Press **[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1147489]] pg. 394** 1990</span>

Second, punishments for drug abuse remove the incentive for future improvement.
“The denial of… of social reintegration”
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Edgardo Rotman. Do Criminal Offenders Have a Constitutional Right to Rehabilitation? The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 44, No. 4 (Winter 1986). pp. 1023 - 1068</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Published by: <span style="color: blue;">Northwestern University </span>Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1143667]] </span>

“The humanistic model… citizenship after release”
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Edgardo Rotman. Do Criminal Offenders Have a Constitutional Right to Rehabilitation? The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 44, No. 4 (Winter 1986). pp. 1023 - 1068</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Published by: <span style="color: blue;">Northwestern University </span>Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1143667]] </span>

Mandating treatment instead of punishment will help in the solution of other social problems.
“America’s prison system… on average citizens”
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Powell, Kimberly. [Genealogist] “Decriminalization of Drugs: A Logical Solution” Health & Wellness. November 18, 2005 [[http://www.associatedcontent.com/article/13981/decriminalization_of_drugs_a_logical.html]] pg. 3</span>

Third, when treated as a matter of public health, drug users are more likely to reduce or stop abuse.
“At the recommendation… instead of jail”
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Szalavitz, Maia. [Journalist for health, science and public policy] “Drugs in Portugal: Did decriminalization work?” [[http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,1893946,00.html]] April 26, 2009</span>

“The Cato paper… treatment as well”
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Szalavitz, Maia. [Journalist for health, science and public policy] “Drugs in Portugal: Did decriminalization work?” [[http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,1893946,00.html]] April 26, 2009</span>

[[#_Toc277231779]]United States have resulted in decreased crime rates due to lower levels of drug abuse.
“Drug treatment would… narcotic treatment program”
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Blumenson, Eric. [Criminal Defense Attorney] “Recovering from Drugs and the Drug War: An Achievable Public Health Alternative” University of Iowa Journal of Gender, Race and Justice, Volume 7. [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=352182]] 2002. Pg 6-7</span>

==Negative== 
V – morality
VC – ensuring proper punishment
<span style="color: black;">Punishment is only justified as a proportional response to the wrongdoing by the offender.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steiker, Carol L. “No, Capital Punishment is Not Morally Required: Deterrence, Deontology, and the Death Penalty.” </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Harvard</span>// //<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Law</span>// //<span style="font-size: 8pt;">School</span>////<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Public Law Paper no. 125.</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> < [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=859384]]> (2005).</span></span>
“A venerable deontological… the offender’s wrongdoing”
<span style="color: black;">A desert-based punishment paradigm dehumanizes the wrongdoer and denies her justice.</span>
“The reason is… patient, a case”
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">C.S. Lewis, //The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment.//</span>
Contention:
<span style="color: black;">Substance abuse definitionally causes physical harm and consists of the failure to fulfill societal obligations. </span>
“Substance abuse: a… in legal problems”
Dorland’s medical dictionary
<span style="color: black;">Drug addicts are autonomous agents who are responsible for their actions, and thus must be punished through the criminal justice system.</span>
“When a person… static over time”
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">Bennett Foddy and Julian Savulescu. “A Liberal Account of Addiction” //Philosophy, Psychiatry and Psychology// 17, 1. (2010)</span>
A public health approach strays away from giving to drug abusers what they deserve in terms of punishment.
“The emergence of… unregulated street dealers”
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">Transform drug policy foundation. After The War on Drugs: Options for Control (2006) [[http://www.tdpf.org.uk/Transform_After_the_War_on_Drugs.pdf]]</span>

**Deontology NC**
Ethical theories must be based upon agent neutral values because otherwise ethical evaluations cannot apply to all actors.
“If we are… express its presence”
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">F.E. Kamm “Inviolability” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">Midwest Studies in Philosophy </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">20:1 (2008) </span></span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">VC – treating people as ends in themselves</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">Contention:</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">Mandatory rehabilitation programs are a form of punishment, or at least response to wrongdoing, that denies criminals their fundamental human worth by treating them as an object of society.</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">“According to the… patient, ‘a case’</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">C.S. Lewis, //The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment.//</span></span> </span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">The mandatorily rehabilitative nature of the public health approach to drug abuse by making the offender, rather than a subject of rights, a case to be cured.</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">“A venerable deontological… the offender’s wrongdoing”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">Steiker, Carol L. “No, Capital Punishment is Not Morally Required: Deterrence, Deontology, and the Death Penalty.” //Harvard Law School Public Law Paper no. 125.// < [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=859384]]> (2005). </span>

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Critical Discourse AC</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">V- morality
</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Morality demands critical discourse on ethical principles.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">We need to criticize previously established norms because </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1) Morality demands that we assess flaws in our reasoning.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">2) Without criticism, we lose the true meaning of decisions.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">“The fact, however… essence being lost”</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span class="msoIns"> </span></span>[John Stuart, “On Liberty,” Digireads.com (Google Books) pg. 28, 1869]
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">If actions secure critical discourse, they ought to be taken.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">VC – reducing age based discrimination towards juveniles</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">First, <span style="color: #131212;">dispelling perceptions regarding age is critical to protecting the ability of children to represent themselves in society. </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"><span style="color: #131212;">“In essence, adultism… and private life”</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Julia Waldman <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.sws.soton.ac.uk/cwab/Session3/ICWs34.htm]]</span> 3.4 - Social justice framework and other discourses December 2003</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Second, <span style="color: #131212;">stigmatizing age decreases the ability of the government to reform itself. It leads to a paralysis in societal improvement. </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"><span style="color: #131212;">“But the tendencies… reconstructed in interaction”</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Act Your Age Author(s): Cheryl Laz Source: Sociological Forum, Vol. 13, No. 1 (Mar., 1998), pp. 85-113 Published by: Springer </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/684926 . Accessed: 06/01/2011 10:03</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Contention:</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">First, the juvenile justice system is presented in a manner that creates social beliefs that juveniles are not mentally developed and have a “youthful illness.”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">“Although the current… as productive citizens”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chamberlin, Christine. NOTE: Not Kids Anymore: A Need for Punishment and Deterrence in the Juvenile Justice System. Boston College Law Review: Boston College Law School. March 2001. 42 B.C.L. Rev 39</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Second, the existence of a juvenile system allows politicians to create the image of a juvenile “superpredator”, which stigmatizes the youth generation.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">“Conservative politicians, pundits… court and incarcerated”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nunn, Kenneth B.,(Proffesor of Law at University of Florida Levin College of Law The Child as Other: Race and Differential Treatment in the Juvenile Justice System. DePaul Law Review, Vol. 51, pp. 679-714, 2002. Available at SSRN: [[http://ssrn.com/abstract=336400]]</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Third, psychological studies are actively created to serve the needs of the juvenile court and are granted social and psychological clout by their invocation within juvenile trials.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">“Undue emphasis on… away from autonomy”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"><span style="color: #151515; font-size: 10pt;">Maroney, Terry A., (Associat Proffesor of Law at Vanderbilt.) The False Promise of Adolescent Brain Science in Juvenile Justice (May 18, 2009). Notre Dame Law Review, Vol. 85, p. 89, 2010; Gruter Institute Squaw Valley Conference 2009: Law, Behavior & the Brain. Available at SSRN: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1405367</span></span>




<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">V - morality</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">First, the purpose of punishment is to provide a benefit to society</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"> “First, some censure… exercise these capactities”</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Censure Theory and Intuitions about Punishment </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Author(s): Thaddeus MetzSource: Law and Philosophy, Vol. 19, No. 4 (Jul., 2000), pp. 491-512Published by: SpringerStable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/3505080Accessed: 17/11/2010 23:31 </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Second, people agree that the goal of society is to maintain stability and protection from harm.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">“A solution to… to avert them”</span>

__Michael Keeley.__ "Continuing the Social Contract Tradition." Business Ethics Quarterly. April 1995. 251. A writer for the Business Ethics Quarterly, University of Notre Dame, also wrote: A Social-Contract Theory of Organizations. Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1988. "The Trouble with Transformational Leadership: Toward a Federalist Ethic for Organizations." Business Ethics Quarterly, 1995. 5, 1: 67-96. 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">VC – minimizing crime</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">First, the rehabilitative nature of the juvenile justice system drastically decreases the chances of future crime.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">“The effectiveness of… exceed the costs”</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Adolescent Development and the Regulation of Youth Crime. Elizabeth S. Scott Laurence Steinberg </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The Future of Children, Volume 18, Number 2, Fall 2008, pp. 15-33 (Article) </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Second, rehabilitative methods are particularly beneficial for adolescents due to their increased susceptibility to peer pressure.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">“First, teens tend… crimes in groups”</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Adolescent Development and the Regulation of Youth Crime </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Elizabeth S. Scott </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Laurence Steinberg </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The Future of Children, Volume 18, Number 2, Fall 2008, pp. 15-33 (Article) </span>

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]