[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Meadows== 

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">CONTENTION 1 IS INHERENCY</span>

**Afghanistan is the global basing location for drone strikes**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turse 10</span>** Nick Turse is a fellow at New York University’s Center for the United States and the Cold War and the winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction [[http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/|__http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/__]] d.a. 7-27-10 
<span class="Highlight"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 12pt;">The Air …</span></span>quite literally, __paid.__

<span style="margin-top: 0.1pt;">Deployment of drones is set to double in 2011</span>
<span style="margin-top: 0.1pt;">Chris <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jenks</span></span>, Chief of the International Law Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>, University of North Dakota Law Review, “Law From Above: Unmanned Aerial Systems, Use Of Force, And The Law Of Armed Conflict” http://www.law.und.nodak.edu/LawReview/issues/web_assets/pdf/85-3/85NDLR649.pdf</span>
In September 2009, … targeted assassination, and outright murder


<span style="font-size: 14pt;">CONTENTION 2 IS VIRTUAL WARFARE</span>
Mechanized drone warfare pixallizes the enemy, hiding the suffering of the victim
James <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian</span></span>, Professor of Political Science at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and Research Professor of International Relations at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">00</span></span>, “Virtuous War/Virtual Theory”, jstor, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/2626459.pdf]]
So, is the virtualization of violence a …<span class="Highlight"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 12pt;"> on the same screen</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline">**.**</span>


Virtual war separates the pilot from any ethical relation to the victim
Derek <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gregory</span></span>, Department of Geography University of British Columbia at Vancouver, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">06</span></span>, Arab World Geographer, “‘In another time-zone, the bombs fall unsafely….’Targets, civilians and late modern war*”, http://web.mac.com/derekgregory/iWeb/Site/The%20city-as-target_files/%27In%20another%20time%20zone%27_illustrated-2.pdf
<span class="Highlight"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 12pt;">The second refinement of late …</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"> been injured and killed there.</span> 34 

This facilitates enemy construction—simulations of war replace reality with our misconceptions of the enemy
James <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian</span></span>, Professor of Political Science at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and Research Professor of International Relations at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span></span>, “War as a Game”, Brown Journal of World Affairs p. 45-46
The charge of moral equivalency—… unfolding of events, or at least a comforting conclusion. 


**Continued drone deployment creates a Playstation killing mentality – it is impossible to assess a value system when lives are reduced to games**
Paul **Koring**, foreign correspondent, The Globe and Mail, June 4, 20**10**, “U.S. drone strikes blur the lines of war, UN warns,” [[http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/americas/us-drone-strikes-blur-the-lines-of-war-un-warns/article1591920/]]
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0.0001pt;">__Reapers and Predators__ – the grimly-named missile-firing <span class="Highlight"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 12pt;">…</span></span>warned Mr. Alston, in his 29-page report to the to the UN Human Rights Council.</span>


It is our ethical obligation to condemn the distancing mediatization of drone warfare
Derek <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gregory</span></span>, Department of Geography University of British Columbia at Vancouver, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">06</span></span>, Arab World Geographer, “‘In another time-zone, the bombs fall unsafely….’Targets, civilians and late modern war*”, http://web.mac.com/derekgregory/iWeb/Site/The%20city-as-target_files/%27In%20another%20time%20zone%27_illustrated-2.pdf
On the other side, this erasure …t<span class="Highlight"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 12pt;">urn to those frail bodies.</span></span>


<span style="font-size: 16pt;">THUS THE PLAN:</span>
<span style="font-size: 16pt;">The United States federal government should renounce all of its remotely piloted vehicle programs in Afghanistan.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">CONTENTION 3 IS ETHICS</span>
The State is the beginning of all violence-not helping those who aren’t “its own” ignores responsibility which is the root cause of all violence. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aronowicz, prof Judaism Franklin and Marshall, 2006</span></span>
Annette Aronowicz, professor of Judaic studies at Franklin and Marshall College, Summer 2006, “Levinas and Politics” http://66.102.1.104/scholar?q=cache:5L5lnjhcUSgJ:scholar.google.com/+levinas%2Bholocaust%2Bpolitics&hl=en 
What remains after so much bloodshed …<span class="DebateUnderline">ssible: for it is not only a question of seizing the evil-doer but also of not making the innocent suffer</span> (Levinas 1990:
110).


Current politics dooms us to violence - the only escape is through a norm of ethics
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fasching, professor of Religious Studies at South Florida, 1993</span></span>
Darrell J. Fasching, Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, “The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima”
Our modern technological civilization … apocalyptic self-destruction.


The aff’s focus on product is critical to adopting a proper ethical stance. Focus of process divorces this stance.
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Van Oenen, lecturer phil Erasmus, 2006</span></span>
Gijs Van Oenen, senior lecturer in the department of philosophy at Erasmus University Rotterdam, “A Machine That Would Go of Itself: Interpassivity and Its Impact on Political Life,” Theory and Event, 2006 (Project Muse)
<span class="reduce2">This metaphor signifies of course …</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> is involvement with itself.</span>

Policymakers have a personal responsibility to be ethical in their political decisions
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simmons, associate prof social sciences ASU, 2003</span></span>
William Paul Simmons, associate professor of social sciences at Arizona State University, 2003, “An-Archy and Justice: An Introduction to Emmanuel Levinas’s Political Thought”
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Politically, Levinas asks whether …a<span class="DebateUnderline">greement with the other history</span>?"</span>


Survival is not a value in itself- risks are part of life. We must uphold rights to avoid policy paralysis. Pure pragmatism fails.
Shue 89 <span style="text-decoration: none;">[</span><span class="FontStyle17"><span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">Henry </span></span><span class="FontStyle18"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Shue, </span></span><span class="FontStyle17"><span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">Professor of Ethics and Public Life, Princeton University, </span></span><span class="FontStyle18"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">1989 </span></span><span class="FontStyle17"><span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">(Nuclear Deterrence and Moral Restraint, pg. 45-6) (PDCL1167)]</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.5pt; margin-top: 11.3pt;"><span class="FontStyle17"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">When we pursue …and </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 10pt;">moral reasoning</span></span><span class="FontStyle17"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span></span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ethics are a pre-requisite to utilitarian calculations, if we win our ethical framework then you vote aff before you ever consider a body count. Voting neg denies the value to life.</span>**
Manning, <span class="CitesChar">Professor of theology and philosophy at Quincy University,</span> 1993
(Robert, , Intepreting Otherwise than Heidegger, p. 123-125)
This is really the …ultimately, <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 10pt;">violence</span></span><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and tyranny.</span></span>



<span style="font-size: 14pt;">CONTENTION 4 IS SOLVENCY</span>

U.S. has shifted its drones to Afghanistan from Iraq
**Barnes 10** Julie, LA Times reporter U.S. Shifting Drone Focus to Taliban
http://2scottmontgomery.blogspot.com/2009/07/los-angeles-times-us-shifting-drones.html
But <span class="Highlight"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 12pt;">the Obama …</span></span>, officials said. 

**Thousands of drones are being surged**
**Press TV 10** US deploys 1000s drones in Afghanistan [[http://www.presstv.ir/detail.aspx?id=125382&sectionid=351020403|__http://www.presstv.ir/detail.aspx?id=125382&sectionid=351020403__]] d.a. 7-27-10
<span class="Highlight"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 12pt;">The US is deploying …</span></span> Middle East <span class="Highlight"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 12pt;">region</span></span>.

**The surge is substantial—The military impact of the drones dwarfs the impact of the ground troop surge**
**Turse 10** //Nick Turse is a fellow at New York University’s Center for the United States and the Cold War and the winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction// [[http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/|__http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/__]] d.a. 7-27-10 
What were once …and Reaper drone flights through

**Current US drone use sets precedent**
**Horton 10** (Scott, A New York attorney known for his work in emerging markets and international law, especially human rights law and the law of armed conflict, Horton lectures at Columbia Law School, “The Trouble with Drones” May 3 2010, [[http://www.harpers.org/archive/2010/05/hbc-90006980]], 06/25/10. HR)

<span style="margin-left: 0.1in;">__No weapons system … a vehicle for targeted killings.__</span>

==1AC - Greenhill== 

**Contention 1 is Inherency**
**The United States has made Afghanistan the focal point for a global drone war. Afghanistan is the basing location for drone strikes around the world**
**Turse 10** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nick Turse is a fellow at New York University’s Center for the United States and the Cold War and the winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fnwoobserver.wordpress.com%2f2010%2f01%2f31%2fdrone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047%2f|http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/]]</span> d.a. 7-27-10 </span>
<span class="xhighlight">**__<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; font-size: 10pt; padding: 0in;">The Air Force has created an…</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and __are__, quite literally, __paid.__ </span>


<span style="margin-top: 0.1pt;">**Deployment of drones is set to double in 2011**</span>
<span style="margin-top: 0.1pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chris </span><span class="xauthor-date">**Jenks**</span>, Chief of the International Law Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General, 20<span class="xauthor-date">**09**</span>, University of North Dakota Law Review, “Law From Above: Unmanned Aerial Systems, Use Of Force, And The Law Of Armed Conflict” http://www.law.und.nodak.edu/LawReview/issues/web_assets/pdf/85-3/85NDLR649.pdf</span>
In September 2009, the United… targeted assassination, and outright murder


**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">CONTENTION 2 IS VIRTUAL WARFARE</span>**

**The union of modern warfare and the ethical imperatives of US foreign policy elevated virtual war to a virtuous war. Mechanized warfare pixallizes the enemy, propagating a clean war and hiding the suffering of the victim**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">James </span><span class="xauthor-date">**Der Derian**</span>, Professor of Political Science at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and Research Professor of International Relations at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University, 20<span class="xauthor-date">**00**</span>, “Virtuous War/Virtual Theory”, jstor, [[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.jstor.org%2fstable%2fpdfplus%2f2626459.pdf|http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/2626459.pdf]]
So, is the virtualization of… <span class="xhighlight">**__<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; font-size: 10pt; padding: 0in;">game on the same screen</span>__**</span><span class="xdebateunderline">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__**</span>



**Virtual war separates the pilot and the target by creating a dichotomy of “my space” and “their space”. This warfare is absent of any ethical relation to the victim whose suffering is sanitized by the computer screen**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Derek </span><span class="xauthor-date">**Gregory**</span>, Department of Geography University of British Columbia at Vancouver, 20<span class="xauthor-date">**06**</span>, Arab World Geographer, “‘In another time-zone, the bombs fall unsafely….’Targets, civilians and late modern war*”, http://web.mac.com/derekgregory/iWeb/Site/The%20city-as-target_files/%27In%20another%20time%20zone%27_illustrated-2.pdf
<span class="xhighlight">**__<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; font-size: 10pt; padding: 0in;">The second refinement of late modern…</span>__**</span><span class="xdebateunderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">been injured and killed there</span>__</span>


**This facilitates enemy construction—simulations of war replace reality with our misconceptions of the enemy, perpetuating war over difference**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">James </span><span class="xauthor-date">**Der Derian**</span>, Professor of Political Science at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and Research Professor of International Relations at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University, 20<span class="xauthor-date">**03**</span>, “War as a Game”, Brown Journal of World Affairs p. 45-46
The charge of moral equivalency—in… at least a comforting conclusion.


**Continued drone deployment creates a Playstation killing mentality – it is impossible to assess a value system when lives are reduced to games**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Paul </span>**Koring**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, foreign correspondent, The Globe and Mail, June 4, 20</span>**10**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, “U.S. drone strikes blur the lines of war, UN warns,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.theglobeandmail.com%2fnews%2fworld%2famericas%2fus-drone-strikes-blur-the-lines-of-war-un-warns%2farticle1591920%2f|http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/americas/us-drone-strikes-blur-the-lines-of-war-un-warns/article1591920/]]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 5pt 0.3in 0.0001pt 0in;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Reapers and Predators</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – the grimly… the UN Human Rights Council. </span></span>


**It is our ethical obligation to look beyond the sanitized violence of the computer screen and condemn drone warfare and mediatization for their distancing of war**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Derek </span><span class="xauthor-date">**Gregory**</span>, Department of Geography University of British Columbia at Vancouver, 20<span class="xauthor-date">**06**</span>, Arab World Geographer, “‘In another time-zone, the bombs fall unsafely….’Targets, civilians and late modern war*”, http://web.mac.com/derekgregory/iWeb/Site/The%20city-as-target_files/%27In%20another%20time%20zone%27_illustrated-2.pdf
On the other side, this… <span class="xhighlight">**__<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; font-size: 10pt; padding: 0in;">turn to those frail bodies.</span>__**</span>


**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">CONTENTION 3 IS MODELING</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">SCENARIO 1 IS INTERNATIONAL PROLIFERATION</span>**

**Unless the U.S. restrains the use of drones there will be a global proliferation of drone technology leading to the globalization of death**
**Engelhardt 10**
<span class="xdebateunderline"><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.huffingtonpost.com%2ftom-engelhardt|Tom Engelhardt]]</span> Tom Engelhardt is a graduate of Yale University and one of the country's most eminent book editorsEditor of TomDispatch.com http://www.huffingtonpost.com/tom-engelhardt/america-detached-from-war_b_624155.html d.a. 7-25-10</span>
<span class="xdebateunderline"><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.huffingtonpost.com%2ftom-engelhardt%2famerica-detached-from-war_b_624155.html|America Detached from War: Bush's Pilotless Dream, Smoking Drones, and Other Strange Tales From the Crypt]]</span> </span>
Smoking Drones, not a single… **__combination, this__** <span class="xhighlight">**__<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; font-size: 10pt; padding: 0in;">globalization of death</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span>


**U.S. drone attacks will incite international, uncontrolled drone use and risks the spread of new weapons tech**
<span class="xcite">**Savage ’10** </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Charlie, columnist for the New York Times, New York Times, “U.N. Report Highly Critical of American Drone Attacks, Warning of Use by Others”, June 6th, 2010, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/03/world/ 03drones.html, Academic Search Premier]</span>
<span class="xunderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A senior United Nations official…life and prevent extrajudicial executions.''</span>__</span>


**Every international crisis will be resolved with war**
**Singer 09**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">P. W. Singer is director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institution. Singer.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Winter 2009 Robots at War: The New Battlefield</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.wilsonquarterly.com%2farticle.cfm%3faid%3d1313|http://www.wilsonquarterly.com/article.cfm?aid=1313]]. D.a. 7-25-10</span>
James **__Der Derian__** is an… <span class="xhighlight">**__<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; font-size: 10pt; padding: 0in;">seduce us into more wars.</span>__**</span>



**The result is the termination of the planet**
**Engelhardt, ‘9** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Tom Engelhardt, co-founder of the American Empire Project, Drone Wars: Your Future has Arrived, 4/7/09, [[http://www.pacificfreepress.com/news/1/3990-drone-wars-your-future-has-arrived.html]].]</span>
If you want to read… pause for thought**__.__**.. or not.

**McGrath 10**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> LIEUTENANT COLONEL SHAUN R. MCGRATH United States Air Force </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> STRATEGIC MISSTEP: “IMMORTAL” ROBOTIC WARFARE, INVITING COMBAT TO SUBURBAN AMERICA March 18, 2010 [[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.dtic.mil%2fcgi-bin%2fGetTRDoc%3fAD%3dADA521822%26Location%3dU2%26doc%3dGetTRDoc.pdf|http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA521822&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]] d.a. 7-27-10</span>
The concept of “at risk”… would become found of it.”

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">SCENARIO 2 IS PRE-EMPTION</span>**

**The attempt to use targeted killing to hunt down rogues relies on two deadly assumptions: 1. That we know who the bad guys are 2. That usable, fast, conventional response deters better. They advocate deterrence through spectacular murder. The result is the normalization of preemption as the preferable strategy of war. The impact is weapons shift, nuclear escalation and the collapse of u.s. hegemony from a global backlash to u.s. killings.**
**Goh ’06**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006, http://fastcapitalism.com/]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The articulation of wait cannot… nothing short of terrifying </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">either.</span>


**Preemption must be rejected in all forms to break the rising consensus on speed and preemptive war. The alternative creates democratic resistance and the possibility to generate new norms.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Goh ’06**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Irving, **Fellow @ Harvard University**, //Fast Capitalism//, 2.1 2006, http://fastcapitalism.com/]</span></span>
The fact remains that the… none other than but now.

**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">THUS THE PLAN:</span>**
In order to reduce our military presence, the United States federal government should terminate all drone programs in Afghanistan.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">CONTENTION 4 IS SOLVENCY</span>**

**Stopping drone attacks is key**
**Siddiqui 10**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tayyab Siddiqui- former Pakistani Ambassador Pakistan’s drone dilemma [[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.dawn.com%2fwps%2fwcm%2fconnect%2fdawn-content-library%2fdawn%2fnews%2fpakistan%2f04-drone-dilemma-qs-03|http://www.dawn.com/wps/wcm/connect/dawn-content-library/dawn/news/pakistan/04-drone-dilemma-qs-03]] 7-18-10 d.a. 7-25-10</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The US must recognise that… suicide attacks in Pakistani cities**.** </span>


**The surge is substantial—The military impact of the drones dwarfs the impact of the ground troop surge**
**Turse 10** //<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nick Turse is a fellow at New York University’s Center for the United States and the Cold War and the winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fnwoobserver.wordpress.com%2f2010%2f01%2f31%2fdrone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047%2f|http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/]]</span> d.a. 7-27-10 </span>
What were once unacknowledged, relatively… and Reaper drone flights through.


**Current US drone use sets precedents—other countries will follow lawless targeted killings leading to interstate drone wars[[#x_LastEdit]]**
**Horton 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Scott, A New York attorney known for his work in emerging markets and international law, especially human rights law and the law of armed conflict, Horton lectures at Columbia Law School, “The Trouble with Drones” May 3 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.harpers.org%2farchive%2f2010%2f05%2fhbc-90006980|http://www.harpers.org/archive/2010/05/hbc-90006980]]</span>, 06/25/10. HR)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">No weapons system remains indefinitely… a vehicle for targeted killings.</span>__


**Afghanistan is now ground zero of the drone war as U.S. has shifted its drones to Afghanistan from Iraq**
**Barnes 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Julie, LA Times reporter U.S. Shifting Drone Focus to Taliban</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">http://2scottmontgomery.blogspot.com/2009/07/los-angeles-times-us-shifting-drones.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> But <span class="xhighlight">**__<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; padding: 0in;">the Obama administration's primary…shifted to Afghanistan</span>__**</span>, officials said. </span>


**Thousands of drones are being surged into Afghanistan**
**Press TV 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">US deploys 1000s drones in Afghanistan [[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.presstv.ir%2fdetail.aspx%3fid%3d125382%26sectionid%3d351020403|http://www.presstv.ir/detail.aspx?id=125382&sectionid=351020403]] d.a. 7-27-10</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="xhighlight">**__<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; padding: 0in;">The US is deploying thousands…to the</span>__**</span> Middle East **__<span class="xhighlight"><span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; padding: 0in;">region</span></span>__**. </span>


**Drones strikes are illegal – they’re already mobilizing abolition movements**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nasir </span><span class="xdebateunderline">**Iqbal**</span>, Staff Writer, Dawn, 01 Jul, 20<span class="xdebateunderline">**10** </span>“Imran moves SC against drone attacks” [[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.dawn.com%2fwps%2fwcm%2fconnect%2fdawn-content-library%2fdawn%2fthe-newspaper%2ffront-page%2f21-imran-moves-sc-against-drone-attacks-170-sk-03|http://www.dawn.com/wps/wcm/connect/dawn-content-library/dawn/the-newspaper/front-page/21-imran-moves-sc-against-drone-attacks-170-sk-03]] TP
In his petition filed through… <span class="xdebateunderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and air, shall be safeguarded.”</span>__</span>



=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]