[[toc]]
If any cards here are difficult to recut/research, Email us for full text:
[[mailto:luke.plutowski@gmail.com|luke.plutowski@gmail.com]]
<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; margin: 0px; padding: 0px 10px 0px 0px;">[[mailto:debater12@gmail.com|debater12@gmail.com]]</span>

=Affirmative= 

==Afghanistan Air Presence 1AC== 


**Text: The United States federal government should remove its air presence in Afghanistan and all of its troops necessary for planned and preplanned air strikes in Afghanistan. The United States federal government should withdraw all of its support for allied air strikes in Afghanistan.**

**Contention 1: The Status Quo**

**The United states is waging a war in Afghanistan - a war against the people. In order to save as many US lives as possible the army maximizes civilian death, targeting the people and their infrastructure- these people are erased by the media as “collateral damage” and “accidents”**

Nicholas **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Wheeler</span>__**, senior Lecturer of IR @ Aberystwyth last modified in June **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">2007</span>__**
[“Protecting Afghan Civilians from the Hell of War” [[http://www.ssrc.org/sept11/essays/wheeler.htm]]]

An alternative answer to this moral [...] in the hell that is war.

**Casualties and air strikes increasing under Petraeus**

“Pentagon Lies and Afghan Civilian Deaths: The Unspoken Truth” by Marc W. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Herold </span>__**Global Research, December 8, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">10</span>__**, Ph.D., M.B.A., B.Sc. Departments of Economics and Women's Studies McConnell Hall Whittemore School of Business & Economics University of New Hampshire, online at [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=22327]]

The essential link is that America’s [...] whether we even should do it."

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**Contention 2: A Politics of Risk**</span>
**US Bombing tactics in Afghanistan systematically massacre civilians. we must reject an immoral strategy that weighs US lives a thousand times more important than Afghanis.**

Martin **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Shaw</span>__**, IR @ Sussex, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">02</span>__**
[“Risk Transfer Militarism, Small Massacres and the Historic Legitimacy of War” International Relations 16(3) 349-355]

The risk of repeated small massacres [...] , its methods are insufficiently so. 




**Simple probability times magnitude risk calculus erases afghani civilians. We must confront the hidden politics of risk that condemns civilians to massacre for the sake of political expediency.**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Shaw 05</span>__** (Martin, research professor of International Relations at the University of Sussex, “The New Western Way of War” Polity Press, Cambridge, UK) pg. 95-97


The roles that soldier- and [...] recognize these as artefacts of power. 




**A utilitarian paradigm encourages the use of fantastic scenarios to justify the immorality of bombing.**

Brian **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Orend</span>__**, Ethics @ Waterloo, **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">2000 </span>__**
[Michael Walzer on War and Justice, 83-85]

This abstraction from reality is graphically [...] his brand of just war theory? 




**1. Any attempt to calculate probabilities is bankrupt—in the real world, we do not know the odds or the sources of uncertainty—the only notion of probability we can accept is both inherently fuzzy and unable to produce any certainty on the question of outcomes.**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Nassim Nicholas **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Taleb</span>__**, Distinguished Professor of Risk Engineering at Polytechnic Institute of New York University, and Distinguished Research Scholar, Said Business School, Oxford University, THE BLACK SWAN: THE IMPACT OF THE HIGHLY IMPROBABLE, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">07</span>__**, p. 127-9.</span>

What is the ludic fallacy? [...] overestimate it in games of chance. 



**2. To predict the future, we necessarily need to know everything about it—within risk society either their predictions are entirely bankrupt or the only risk of the future is through their act of rhetorically creating it.**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Nassim Nicholas **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Taleb</span>__**, Distinguished Professor of Risk Engineering at Polytechnic Institute of New York University, and Distinguished Research Scholar, Said Business School, Oxford University, THE BLACK SWAN: THE IMPACT OF THE HIGHLY IMPROBABLE, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">07</span>__**, p. 171-2.</span>

Popper's central argument is that in [...] an expensive device called a necktie. 

**3. The attempt to impose narrativity and causality onto past and future events necessarily fails—we constantly reconstruct and re-imagine scenarios in such a way that explanations necessarily fail.**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Nassim Nicholas **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Taleb</span>__**, Distinguished Professor of Risk Engineering at Polytechnic Institute of New York University, and Distinguished Research Scholar, Said Business School, Oxford University, THE BLACK SWAN: THE IMPACT OF THE HIGHLY IMPROBABLE, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">07</span>__**, p. 70-1.</span>

Our tendency to perceive—to [...] by dint of listening to theories. 



**4. Attempts to explain causality and the “because” of scenarios, especially in scenarios where survival is at play, fall into false Aristotelian categories and assume we can reduce and understand. This is nonsense—in risk society the role of randomness is supreme—any negative DA scenario will ignore a sea of silent evidence.**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Nassim Nicholas **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Taleb</span>__**, Distinguished Professor of Risk Engineering at Polytechnic Institute of New York University, and Distinguished Research Scholar, Said Business School, Oxford University, THE BLACK SWAN: THE IMPACT OF THE HIGHLY IMPROBABLE, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">07</span>__**, p. 119-120.</span>

This in itself greatly weakens the [...] situations where you suspect silent evidence. 

**5. A preponderance of positives doesn’t prove anything—with a little bit of research, we can always create a story within risk society. The only basis for proof is a negative, which means you should always prefer our defense to their links.**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Nassim Nicholas **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Taleb</span>__**, Distinguished Professor of Risk Engineering at Polytechnic Institute of New York University, and Distinguished Research Scholar, Said Business School, Oxford University, THE BLACK SWAN: THE IMPACT OF THE HIGHLY IMPROBABLE, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">07</span>__**, p. 55-6.</span>
By a mental mechanism I call [...] not much more difficult than that. 



**CONTENTION 3 IS SOLVENCY**

**Our plan shifts from rationalized massacre to empathetic war-fighting. We enter into the sphere of empathetic warfighting, where states are responsible for all death they cause, reversing the logic of immunity**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;"> Laura **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Sjoberg, 2006</span>__** [“Gender Realities of the Immunity Principle: Why Gender Analysis Needs Feminism, International Studies Quarterly 50(4)]</span>

The gendered just war narrative is [...] improvement for the noncombatant immunity principle.


==Japan Aff - Glenbrooks 1AC== 


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Contention 1: inherency**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The United States has recently decided to expand their influence in Japan by building new military bases. The Japanese government has just approved the switch to Nago.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Johnson, 2010</span>__**. Chamblers is an author and Professor at the University of California, San Diego. (Chamblers, May 6th, “Another Battle of Okinawa” http://articles.latimes.com/2010/may/06/opinion/la-oe-johnson-20100506)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The United States is on the verge of permanently ... thank the Okinawans for their 65 years of forbearance.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Contention 2: Here Today, Du-gone Tomorrow**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The creation of new military bases in Japan will destroy one of the most unique ecosystems in the world. Not only will it kill off endangered species but new species they are finding every year.**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Center for Biological Diversity, 2009</span>__**. Is a nonprofit membership organization with approximately 220,000 members and online activsts, known for its work protecting endangered species through legal action and scientific petitions. (Dec. 3rd, “RE: PROPOSED U.S. MILITARY AIR BASE EXPANSION NEAR HENOKO, OKINAWA . http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/species/mammals/Okinawa_dugong/pdfs/dugongletter.pdf)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The island of Okinawa has been called ... its importance in 2010 and years to come.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The installations in Okinawa dump toxic substances - U.S. immunity create an unchecked environmental crisis.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Johnson</span>__**, Chalmers A. Blowback: the Costs and Consequences of American Empire. (Pg. 48) New York: Henry Holt, **__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">2004</span>__**. Print.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Closely related to noise pollution ... responsibility for environmental cleanup.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**We will isolate a few scenarios-**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**1.Dugong**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Schoenbaum 08-</span>__** JD from the University of Texas School of Law (2008, Lauren Jensen Schoenbaum, Texas International Law Journal, “The Okinawa Dugong and the Creative Application of US Extraterritorial Environmental Law”,</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) ...North Korean provocations, including missile launches, and nuclear tests.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The Okinawa dugong is facing it’s last struggle between life and death**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Vivian ‘09</span>__** June 25, 2009 CAN WE SAVE THE ENDANGERED DUGONGS HABITAT IN OKINAWA ? http://seashepherds.ning.com/forum/topics/can-we-save-the-endangered</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Habitats of endangered animals ... begin its last slide toward extinction.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**2. Coral Reefs**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Allen 10</span>__** (6/8/10, David Allen, Stars and Stripes, “Group says offshore base to replace Futenma would endanger coral reefs”, http://www.stripes.com/news/group-says-offshore-base-to-replace-futenma-would-endanger-coral-reefs-1.21672)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Environmentalists concerned about the steady ... of Defense and Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">3. INDEPENDENTLY OF ANY BIODIVERSITY OR ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS, THE DUGONG SHOULD BE PROTECTED FOR ITS OKINAWAN CULTURAL IMPORTANCE.</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;">Hideki </span>**__<span style="color: black;">Yoshikawa</span>__**, anthropologist, Meio University, “Dugong Swimming in Uncharted Waters: US Judicial Interventions to Protect Okinawa’s “Natural Monuments” and Halt Base Construction,” THE ASIA-PACIFIC JOURNAL, 6-4-**__<span style="color: black;">09</span>__**, www.japanfocus.org/-Hideki-YOSHIKAWA/3044.**</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">To be sure, the dugong has always been of … asserting Okinawa’s distinctive identity and existence.</span>





<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD REMOVE ITS GROUND FORCES FROM OKINAWA. </span>**</span>




**Contention 3 is risk:**

**The neg’s attempt to convince you that the plan is bad appeals to far-fetched scenarios of global destruction – you should reject convoluted internal link chains.**

**First—“there’s always a risk” is not a reason to vote neg – low probability internal link chains should not be used as an excuse to reject the plan.**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Dale A. **__<span style="color: black;">Herbeck</span>__**, Professor of Communication and Director of the Fulton Debating Society at Boston College, **__<span style="color: black;">and</span>__** John P. **__<span style="color: black;">Katsulas</span>__**, Debate Coach at Boston College, “The Use and Abuse of Risk Analysis in Policy Debate,” Paper Presented at the 78th Annual Meeting of the Speech Communication Association (Chicago, IL), October 29th-November 1st 19**__<span style="color: black;">92</span>__**, Available Online via ERIC Number ED354559, p. 10-12. </span>

<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">First, and foremost,</span></span> <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">we need to realize … </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;"> ignore minimal risks in debates.</span> </span>


**Second—psychological factors will make the neg’s extended internal link chains appear more credible than they actually are – do not be fooled – systematic evaluation of these scenarios will reveal their intellectual bankruptcy.**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">David M. **__<span style="color: black;">Berube</span>__**, Associate Professor of Speech Communication and Director of Debate at the University of South Carolina, “Debunking Mini-max Reasoning: The Limits Of Extended Causal Chains In Contest Debating,” Contemporary Argumentation and Debate, Volume 21, 20**__<span style="color: black;">00</span>__**, Available Online at http://www.cedadebate.org/CAD/2000_berube.pdf, Accessed 02-21-2009, p. 65-69. </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">A final set of tests deal with … has not been sufficiently systematized. </span></span>


**Fourth—organizing politics around these improbable apocalypses is bad in itself – the possibility of planetary destruction is a consequence of their bad risk model.**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">David M. **__<span style="color: black;">Berube</span>__**, Associate Professor of Speech Communication and Director of Debate at the University of South Carolina, “Debunking Mini-max Reasoning: The Limits Of Extended Causal Chains In Contest Debating,” Contemporary Argumentation and Debate, Volume 21, 20**__<span style="color: black;">00</span>__**, Available Online at http://www.cedadebate.org/CAD/2000_berube.pdf, Accessed 02-21-2009, p. 69-70. </span>

<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">As an exercise in a logic classroom, … </span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;"> that allows smoke to trump fire.</span></span>


**Finally—refusing their method is critical to move away from this bad form of risk – rejection within the laboratory of debate spills over to policy making.**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Dale A. **__<span style="color: black;">Herbeck</span>__**, Professor of Communication and Director of the Fulton Debating Society at Boston College, **__<span style="color: black;">and </span>__**John P. **__<span style="color: black;">Katsulas</span>__**, Debate Coach at Boston College, “The Use and Abuse of Risk Analysis in Policy Debate,” Paper Presented at the 78th Annual Meeting of the Speech Communication Association (Chicago, IL), October 29th-November 1st 19**__<span style="color: black;">92</span>__**, Available Online via ERIC Number ED354559, p. 14. </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">It is sometimes argued that debate .. </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;"> in our battle with the bogeymen of our age.</span> </span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">**Contention 4: Solvency**</span></span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">THE IDEA OF ANOTHER ACTOR DOING THE PLAN DOESN’T RESOLVE THE RESOLUTIONAL QUESTION OF WHETHER OR NOT THE USFG SHOULD ACT.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Aitken 77</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (William, teaches philosophy at Chatham College, World Hunger and Moral Obligation, p 93-94)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Some have maintained that there is a .. too strong; it is not a minimal condition for obligation.</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Okinawa Has 75% Of American Military Presence In Japan**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="color: black;">Bandow 10</span>__** [Doug, Senior fellow @ the Cato Institute, former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author and editor of several books, "OKINAWA AND THE PROBLEM OF EMPIRE", March 25, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11617]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Okinawa's saga is long and … eliminate the American presence.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Local residents almost universally hate forward deployed bases, any economic benefit is only held by elites.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Catherine **__<span style="color: black;">Lutz</span>__**, Research Professor, Watson Institute for International Studies, Brown University, “US Bases and Empire: Global Perspectives on the Asia Pacific,” THE ASIA-PACIFIC JOURNAL v. 12-3-09, March 16, 20**__<span style="color: black;">09</span>__**, http://www.japanfocus.org/-Catherine-Lutz/3086.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The environmental, political, and … in other, more human, and truly secure directions.</span>


==Japan Aff - Caucus 1AC== 


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Contention 1: inherency**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The United States has recently decided to expand their influence in Japan by building new military bases. The Japanese government has just approved the switch to Nago.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Johnson, 2010</span>__**. Chamblers is an author and Professor at the University of California, San Diego. (Chamblers, May 6th, “Another Battle of Okinawa” http://articles.latimes.com/2010/may/06/opinion/la-oe-johnson-20100506)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The United States is on the verge of permanently ... thank the Okinawans for their 65 years of forbearance.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Contention 2: Here Today, Du-gone Tomorrow**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The creation of new military bases in Japan will destroy one of the most unique ecosystems in the world. Not only will it kill off endangered species but new species they are finding every year.**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Center for Biological Diversity, 2009</span>__**. Is a nonprofit membership organization with approximately 220,000 members and online activsts, known for its work protecting endangered species through legal action and scientific petitions. (Dec. 3rd, “RE: PROPOSED U.S. MILITARY AIR BASE EXPANSION NEAR HENOKO, OKINAWA . http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/species/mammals/Okinawa_dugong/pdfs/dugongletter.pdf)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The island of Okinawa has been called ... its importance in 2010 and years to come.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The installations in Okinawa dump toxic substances - U.S. immunity create an unchecked environmental crisis.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Johnson</span>__**, Chalmers A. Blowback: the Costs and Consequences of American Empire. (Pg. 48) New York: Henry Holt, **__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">2004</span>__**. Print.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Closely related to noise pollution ... responsibility for environmental cleanup.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**We will isolate a few scenarios-**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**1.Dugong**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Schoenbaum 08-</span>__** JD from the University of Texas School of Law (2008, Lauren Jensen Schoenbaum, Texas International Law Journal, “The Okinawa Dugong and the Creative Application of US Extraterritorial Environmental Law”,</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) ...North Korean provocations, including missile launches, and nuclear tests.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The Okinawa dugong is facing it’s last struggle between life and death**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Vivian ‘09</span>__** June 25, 2009 CAN WE SAVE THE ENDANGERED DUGONGS HABITAT IN OKINAWA ? http://seashepherds.ning.com/forum/topics/can-we-save-the-endangered</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Habitats of endangered animals ... begin its last slide toward extinction.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**2. Coral Reefs**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Allen 10</span>__** (6/8/10, David Allen, Stars and Stripes, “Group says offshore base to replace Futenma would endanger coral reefs”, http://www.stripes.com/news/group-says-offshore-base-to-replace-futenma-would-endanger-coral-reefs-1.21672)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Environmentalists concerned about the steady ... of Defense and Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">3. INDEPENDENTLY OF ANY BIODIVERSITY OR ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS, THE DUGONG SHOULD BE PROTECTED FOR ITS OKINAWAN CULTURAL IMPORTANCE.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;"> Hideki </span>**__<span style="color: black;">Yoshikawa</span>__**, anthropologist, Meio University, “Dugong Swimming in Uncharted Waters: US Judicial Interventions to Protect Okinawa’s “Natural Monuments” and Halt Base Construction,” THE ASIA-PACIFIC JOURNAL, 6-4-**__<span style="color: black;">09</span>__**, www.japanfocus.org/-Hideki-YOSHIKAWA/3044.**


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">To be sure, the dugong has always been of … asserting Okinawa’s distinctive identity and existence.</span>





**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD REMOVE ITS GROUND FORCES FROM THE OKINAWA PREFECTURE IN JAPAN. </span>**







<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">**Contention 3: Solvency**</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">THE IDEA OF ANOTHER ACTOR DOING THE PLAN DOESN’T RESOLVE THE RESOLUTIONAL QUESTION OF WHETHER OR NOT THE USFG SHOULD ACT. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Aitken 77</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (William, teaches philosophy at Chatham College, World Hunger and Moral Obligation, p 93-94) </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Some have maintained that there is a .. too strong; it is not a minimal condition for obligation.</span>



**Okinawa Has 75% Of American Military Presence In Japan**

**__<span style="color: black;">Bandow 10</span>__** [Doug, Senior fellow @ the Cato Institute, former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author and editor of several books, "OKINAWA AND THE PROBLEM OF EMPIRE", March 25, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11617] 
Okinawa's saga is long and … eliminate the American presence.

**Local residents almost universally hate forward deployed bases, any economic benefit is only held by elites.**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Catherine **__<span style="color: black;">Lutz</span>__**, Research Professor, Watson Institute for International Studies, Brown University, “US Bases and Empire: Global Perspectives on the Asia Pacific,” THE ASIA-PACIFIC JOURNAL v. 12-3-09, March 16, 20**__<span style="color: black;">09</span>__**, http://www.japanfocus.org/-Catherine-Lutz/3086.</span>

The environmental, political, and … in other, more human, and truly secure directions.

**OVERSEAS BASES DON’T SERVE ANY REAL PURPOSE ANYMORE – DRAG US UNNECESSARILY INTO WAR, COST A TON OF MONEY.**

Doug **__<span style="color: black;">Bandow</span>__**, Robert A. Taft Fellow, American Conservative Defense Alliance, “Bring Them Home… from Asia,” FOREIGN POLICY IN FOCUS, September <span style="color: black;">19, 20**__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">08</span>__**</span>, http://www.ips-dc.org/articles/bring_them_homefrom_asia.

Alliances, bases, and deployments … way to reduce that figure is to start doing less.

**NO RISK OF CHINA CONFLICT – WAR WOULD BANKRUPT THE US, PENTAGON DOESN’T WANT IT, AND JAPAN FORCES POSE ZERO DETERRENT THREAT.**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Chalmers **__<span style="color: black;">Johnson</span>__**, President, Japan Policy Research Institute, University of San Francisco, “Okinawa Between the United States and Japan,” JPRI OCCASIONAL PAPER n. 24, January 20**__<span style="color: black;">02</span>__**, http://www.jpri.org/publications/occasionalpapers/op24.html.</span>

China is another matter. No sane figure …. sovereignty of any Taiwanese attempt to formally declare its independence.2

==Turkey Arms Sales - Dowling 1AC== 

Changes:

* Terrorism Impact to Turkey Relations
* Turkey Prolif Pre-empts
* added "its" to plan text
* Less growth cards



<span style="display: block; padding: 0in;">
<span style="border: initial none initial; line-height: 14.25pt; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0in;">**//<span style="color: black;">CONTENTION ONE IS INHERENCY</span>//** </span></span>


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">American arms are transferred to Turkish army units with no congressional oversight – the U.S. has resisted efforts to restrict sales based on human rights violations</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Oikonomopoulos 08</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- Panagiotis Oikonomopoulos, Lieutenant Commander, Hellenic Navy, B.S., Hellenic Naval Academy, “THE INFLUENCE OF KEY INTERNATIONAL ACTORS (U.S.-E.U.) AND KEMALISTS ON TURKEY’S ATTITUDE TOWARD ITS KURDISH MINORITY,” MASTERS THESIS FOR THE NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL, June 2008, p. 50, http://www.dtic.mil/cgibin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA483470&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf. </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">Kevin McKiernan has also revealed that U.S. arms ... arms sales dependant on human rights reports. </span>


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">The U.S. is Turkey’s most important military support by far – over 80% of arms, most high-level military training</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Larrabee 10</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- F. Stephen Larrabee, Distinguished Chair in European Security, RAND Corporation, “Troubled Partnership U.S.-Turkish Relations in an Era of Global Geopolitical Change,” RAND PROJECT AIR FORCE, 2010, p. 4-5, http://rqpi.org/pubs/monographs/2009/RAND_MG899.pdf. </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">The United States is also Turkey’s most important ... military operational doctrine and thinking. </span>



<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">The U.S. transfers a substantial amount of weapons to turkey via cascade agreements, the sale of used American arms</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Gabelnick et. Al 1999</span>__** <span style="color: black;">- Tamar Gabelnick, William D. Hartung, and Jennifer Washburn, Director, Arms Sales Monitoring Project, Federation of American Scientists, Director, Arms Trade Resource Center, World Policy Institute, and Research Associate, World Policy Institute, “Arming Repression: U.S. Arms Sales to Turkey During the Clinton Administration,” JOINT REPORT OF THE WORLD POLICY INSTITUTE AND THE FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS, October 1999, http://www.fas.org/asmp/library/reports/turkeyrep.htm#new. </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">In addition to the billions of dollars of ... U.S. subsidy worth hundreds of millions of dollars. </span>



<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">THUS THE PLAN -</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">The United States federal government should cease its arms sales to the Republic of Turkey.</span>** </span>


<span style="display: block; padding: 0in;">
<span style="border: initial none initial; line-height: 14.25pt; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">COTENTION 2 IS GREECE</span>** </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Despite financial crisis, Greece is increasing arms spending to match Turkey</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AFP 10</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- “Citing Turkey threat, Greece still spending billions on defense,” AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE, 5-4-10. http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/n.php?n=debt-hit-greece-still-spending-billions-on-weapons-2010-05-04. lap </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">Greece, one of Europe's biggest arms purchaser, ... neighbors will be able to reach an agreement soon. </span>


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Military spending ensures Greek financial collapse – empirically proven</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Yavuz 10</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- ERCAN YAVUZ, “Arms purchases to counter Turkey behind Greece’s financial demise,” TODAY’S ZAMAN, 2-18-10. http://www.todayszaman.com/tz-web/detaylar.do?load=print&link=201848&yazarAd= </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">According to experts, the country’s major spending ... of the highest military expenditure to GDP figures. </span>


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Prolonged Greek financial crisis risks crushing the euro and derailing U.S. economic recovery</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bestani 10</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- Bob Bestani, Republican Primary Candidate for U.S. Congress, “Why the Greek financial crisis matters to us,” FOSTER’S DAILY DEMOCRAT, May 14, 2010, http://www.fosters.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20100514/GJOPINION_0102/705149962/-1/FOSOPINION. </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">There is no doubt that the Greek crisis ... threatening to forestall the U.S. economic recovery. </span>



<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">No alt causes – Greek collapse ruins world recovery through massive investment losses</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Jewell 10</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- Mark Jewell, “Why Greece matters to US investors,” BOSTON GLOBE, 2-21-10. http://www.boston.com/business/personalfinance/articles/2010/02/21/why_greece_matters_to_us_investors/ </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">Still, Greece matters. That’s because the risk ... countries, according to a screen by Morningstar Inc. </span>


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Economic collapse causes global nuclear war</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mead 09</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- Walter Russell Mead, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger”, 2/4/2009, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2. </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">If current market turmoil seriously damaged t... back on track, we may still have to fight. </span>


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Economic collapse causes war with Russia</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nyquist 08</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- Jeffery Nyquist, author of Origins of the Fourth World War, regular geopolitical columnist for Financial Sense Online, previously a regular columnist for WorldNetDaily, “Financial Collapse and Destructive War” FINANCIAL SENSE, 9/19/08. http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2008/0919.html. </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">If the United States went bankrupt the ... of Russia’s recent turn of policy. </span>


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">U.S. Russia war is the most likely scenario for planetary destruction</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Hefland and Pastore 09</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- Ira Helfand, M.D. and John O. Pastore, M.D. are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat” 3/31/09. http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html) </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">Since the end of the Cold War, many have ... launched from Norway for a possible attack. </span>


<span style="display: block; padding: 0in;">
**<span style="border: initial none initial; line-height: 14.25pt; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0in;">//<span style="color: black;">Contention 3 is turkey relations</span>// </span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Military cooperation between Turkey and the US increasing now – U.S. perspective on the PKK is the litmus test for continued partnership.</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Larrabee 10</span>__** <span style="color: black;">- F. Stephen Larrabee, Distinguished Chair in European Security, RAND Corporation, “Troubled Partnership U.S.-Turkish Relations in an Era of Global Geopolitical Change,” RAND PROJECT AIR FORCE, 2010, p. 81, http://rqpi.org/pubs/monographs/2009/RAND_MG899.pdf. </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">The <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">failure</span> of the United States <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">[...] </span>essential to safeguarding Turkey’s national security. </span>


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Response to PKK violence is the single most likely short-term basis for ending the U.S.-Turkish security alliance.</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Larrabee 08</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- F. Stephen Larrabee, Distinguished Chair in European Security, RAND Corporation, “Turkey as a U.S. security partner,” RAND PROJECT AIR FORCE, 2008, p. 30, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG694.pdf. </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">In the near term, however [...] unilateral military <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">action against the PKK.</span> </span>


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Putting the U.S. - Turkish alliance first ignores the Turkish abuses of international law, human rights, and adversarial foreign policy.</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Sitilides 97</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- John Sitilides, Executive Director, The Western Policy Center, “Dividing the Aegean Sea : A Plan in Progress?,” HELLENISTIC RESOURCES FORUM, May 19, 1997, http://www.hri.org/forum/intpol/sitil.html. </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">Greece's position that issues of national [...] been glaringly evident in recent months. </span>





<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Inaction over Turkey’s bad behavior risks triggering conflict in every global hotspot.</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Sitilides 97</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- John Sitilides, Executive Director, The Western Policy Center, “Dividing the Aegean Sea : A Plan in Progress?,” HELLENISTIC RESOURCES FORUM, May 19, 1997, http://www.hri.org/forum/intpol/sitil.html. </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">As long as geopolitical and strategic [...] </span><span style="color: black;">-state which no longer exists. </span></span>



<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">These hotspots risk rapid escalation into global nuclear war.</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Deitchman 04</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- S. J. Deitchman, Independent Defense Consultant “Completing the transformation of U.S. military forces: the updated military excelled in Afghanistan and Iraq, but further progress must be supported now to ensure long-term security," <span style="text-transform: uppercase;">ISSUES IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY,</span> v 20 n 4, Summer 2004, http://www.issues.org/20.4/deitchman.html. </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">First, potential <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">opponents may field [...] </span>to the country's Islamist fundamentalist factions. </span>


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">We control uniqueness – security relationship collapse is inevitable in the long term - rising Islamist rule, resentment at West, and thirst for power</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Taskin 10</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- Yüksel Taşkın, Associate professor of political science and international relations at Marmara University in Istanbul, “Turkey’s Search for Regional Power,” MERIP, 8-21-10. http://www.merip.org/mero/mero082110.html </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">Under the government of Prime [...] <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">American aims and interests</span>.”[5] </span>


**US-Turkey relations encourages Western values in the Middle East**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Baran 7</span>__</span> (Zeyno, Director of International Security and Energy Programs at The Nixon Center, The U.S.-Turkey Partnership: Looking to the Future, http://www.inthenationalinterest.com/Articles/Vol2Issue27/Vol2Issue27Baran.html)</span>

At the same time, Turkey could … Regional anti-terror pact 

**That causes terrorism**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Ottawayis & Carothers 4</span>__</span> [Marina, senior associate at the Democracy and Rule of Law Project of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace & Thomas Carothers, author of Aiding Democracy Abroad and a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment, <span class="title">Foreign Policy, November/December 2004, </span>http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=2705<span class="title">] </span></span>

“Middle East Democracy Is the … or the Maoist rebels in Nepal.

**Terrorism causes nuclear war**

Dennis Ray <span class="tagChar">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Morgan 9</span>__</span>, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693

Years later, in 1982, at the height of … and suffering in a nuclear winter.




<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**//<span style="color: black;">CONTENTION 5 IS SOLVENCY</span>//** </span>


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Ending arms sales to Turkey is the only way to create sustainable regional peace, stabilize the internal politics of both Turkey and Greece, and prevent otherwise inevitable Aegean conflict.</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Vryonis 97</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- Speros Vryonis, Jr., Director, Speros Basil Vryonis Center for the Study of Hellenism, Sacramento, California, “American Foreign Policy in the Ongoing Greco-Turkish Crisis as a Contributing Factor to Destabilization,” UCLA JOURNAL OF INTERNATIONAL LAW AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS, v 2, Spring/Summer 1997, p. 89, lexis. </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="background: lime; color: black;">U.S. foreign policy [...]</span> <span style="color: black;">Greco-Turkiwsh state of affairs. </span></span>



<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Any alternative arms arrangement will fail – must be a complete withdrawal of arms support to take back negotiating power, send a consistent human rights message, and condemn Turkish military actions</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Gabelnick et. Al 99</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- Tamar Gabelnick, William D. Hartung, and Jennifer Washburn, Director, Arms Sales Monitoring Project, Federation of American Scientists, Director, Arms Trade Resource Center, World Policy Institute, and Research Associate, World Policy Institute, “Arming Repression: U.S. Arms Sales to Turkey During the Clinton Administration,” JOINT REPORT OF THE WORLD POLICY INSTITUTE AND THE FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS, October 1999, http://www.fas.org/asmp/library/reports/turkeyrep.htm#new</span>. </span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">In the meantime, a " [...] to peace in the Eastern Mediterranean. </span>



<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Presence means overseas military assets engaged in routine functions, including arms sales – it is distinct from being present. Caselist included</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Thomason 02</span>__** <span style="color: black;">-- James S. Thomason, Project Leader with Institute for Defense Analyses, "Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD," July 2002, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA415954</span>. </span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE? [...] [pp. 13–14] </span>



<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Realism is good and inevitable</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mearsheimer 1</span>__** <span style="color: black;">[Professor of political science @ University of Chicago, The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, pg. 361] </span></span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">The optimists' claim that security competition [...] states in each region at peace. </span>



<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Turkey won’t proliferate –** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 85.5pt; text-decoration: none; text-indent: -0.25in;">**a. costs, too much time, no Western support, and ruins EU ambitions**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 85.5pt; text-decoration: none; text-indent: -0.25in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Lesser 04</span>__** -- Ian O. Lesser, Vice President, Director of Studies, Pacific Council on International Policy, “Turkey, Iran, and Nuclear Risks,” TURKISH POLICY QUARTERLY, Summer 2004, http://www.turkishpolicy.com/images/stories/2004-02-globalsecurity/TPQ2004-2-lesser.pdf.</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Pursuit of an independent … under current conditions. </span>

<span style="margin-left: 85.5pt; text-decoration: none; text-indent: -0.25in;">**b. US Nuclear guarantee and no capabilities** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-decoration: none;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kamiya et al, 9</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">-- *Matake: professor of International Relations at the National Defense Academy of Japan and a leading security expert in Japan. He is also a member of the board of directors of the Japan Association for International Security, and a member of the board of trustees as well as a member of the policy council of the Japan Forum on International Relations, AND **Henri J. Barkley: visiting scholar in the Carnegie Middle East Program and the Bernard L. and Bertha F. Cohen Professor at Lehigh University.  He served as a member of the U.S. State Department Policy Planning Staff working primarily on issues related to the Middle East, the Eastern Mediterranean, and intelligence from 1998 to 2000. He has taught at Princeton, Columbia, the State University of New York, and the University of Pennsylvania, AND** *Marcos C. de Azambuja (September, 09, Matake and Henri J., Pragmatic Steps for Global Security, “Barzil, Japan, and Turkey,” http://www.stimson.org/nuke/pdf/BJT_Print_Final.pdf) </span></span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">In contemplating conventionally ... Turkey’s primary form of deterrence. </span>





==Turkey Arms Sales - Valley 1AC== 


===//**CONTENTION ONE IS INHERENCY**//=== 


**American arms are transferred to Turkish army units with no congressional oversight – the U.S. has resisted efforts to restrict sales based on human rights violations**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Oikonomopoulos 08</span>__** -- Panagiotis Oikonomopoulos, Lieutenant Commander, Hellenic Navy, B.S., Hellenic Naval Academy, “THE INFLUENCE OF KEY INTERNATIONAL ACTORS (U.S.-E.U.) AND KEMALISTS ON TURKEY’S ATTITUDE TOWARD ITS KURDISH MINORITY,” MASTERS THESIS FOR THE NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL, June 2008, p. 50, http://www.dtic.mil/cgibin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA483470&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf.

Kevin McKiernan has also revealed that U.S. arms ... arms sales dependant on human rights reports. 

**The U.S. is Turkey’s most important military support by far – over 80% of arms, most high-level military training**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Larrabee 10</span>__** -- F. Stephen Larrabee, Distinguished Chair in European Security, RAND Corporation, “Troubled Partnership U.S.-Turkish Relations in an Era of Global Geopolitical Change,” RAND PROJECT AIR FORCE, 2010, p. 4-5, http://rqpi.org/pubs/monographs/2009/RAND_MG899.pdf.

The United States is also Turkey’s most important ... military operational doctrine and thinking. 

**The U.S. transfers a substantial amount of weapons to turkey via cascade agreements, the sale of used American arms**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Gabelnick et. Al 1999</span>__** - Tamar Gabelnick, William D. Hartung, and Jennifer Washburn, Director, Arms Sales Monitoring Project, Federation of American Scientists, Director, Arms Trade Resource Center, World Policy Institute, and Research Associate, World Policy Institute, “Arming Repression: U.S. Arms Sales to Turkey During the Clinton Administration,” JOINT REPORT OF THE WORLD POLICY INSTITUTE AND THE FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS, October 1999, http://www.fas.org/asmp/library/reports/turkeyrep.htm#new.

In addition to the billions of dollars of ... U.S. subsidy worth hundreds of millions of dollars. 


**THUS THE PLAN -**

**The United States federal government should cease arms sales to the Republic of Turkey.**



===**CONTENTION 2 IS ISRAEL**=== 

**US Israel relations are at a tipping point now – Jerusalem housing crisis**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Ravid 10</span>__** -- Barak Ravid, “Israel envoy: U.S. ties at their lowest ebb in 35 years,”, HAARETZ SERVICE, 3-5-10. http://www.haaretz.com/print-edition/news/israel-envoy-u-s-ties-at-their-lowest-ebb-in-35-years-1.264758. lap

Israel's ambassador to the United States ... Jerusalem while U.S. Vice President Joe Biden was visiting Israel.


**The U.S. and Israel are drifting apart – Obama needs to reaffirm America’s commitment to relations**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Besser 10</span>__** -- James Besser on Mon, 6/28/2010 - 11:47 James Besser is a respected Washington correspondent for NY Jewish Week whose reports appear in many other Jewish media outlets as well. ...http://www.thejewishweek.com/blogs/political_insider/israeli_ambassador_michael_oren_us_and_
israel_drifting_apart

What to make out of yesterday's report in ... are ever in total agreement on every issue?

**On May 31st, Israel attacked a Turkish flotilla carrying humanitarian aid, which soured ties between the two countries – Plan will trigger the perception that the US is supporting Israel, improving relations**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Turkish Weekly 10</span>__** -- “Political Analysts: Events Around "Freedom Flotilla" can Deteriorate U.S-Turkey Relations,” 6-4-10. http://www.turkishweekly.net/news/102907/u-s-political-analysts-events-around-quot-freedom-flotilla-quot-can-deteriorate-u-s-turkey-relations.html. lap

Besides undermining of the Turkish-Israeli ... Ankara is unlikely to fully reconsider its policy.

**Middle East power is zero-sum – the US must choose a side to maintain regional stability and influence**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kramer 10</span>__** -- Martin Kramer, the Wexler-Fromer fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy and a senior fellow at the Shalem Center in Jerusalem, “A Zero-Sum Game,” 7-1-10. http://www.tabletmag.com/news-and-politics/38045/obama-in-the-mideast-2/. lap

In the Middle East, power is a zero-sum ... Middle East's stress test has begun. 

**US-Israel relations key to Middle East stability**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kramer 06</span>__** –Dr. Martin Kramer, fellow at The Washington Institute and senior fellow at the Olin Institute, Harvard “The American Interest,” Fall 2006, http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/templateC06.php?CID=980

My answer, to anticipate my conclusion ... grip of the West’s sworn enemies.

**Middle East instability escalates**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Ferguson 6</span>__** (Niall Ferguson, Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University and a Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, “The Next War of the World,” Foreign Affairs, Sep/Oct2006, Vol. 85, Issue 5, Business Source Premier)


WHAT MAKES the escalating civil ... more likely on Palestine and Mesopotamia.


**Israeli attack causes US Russia war**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Moore 9</span>__** -- Carol Moore, BA in pol sci from Wayne State, “Six Escalation Scenarios to Nuclear World War III”, 16 February 2009, http://pakalert.wordpress.com/2009/02/16/six-escalation-scenarios-to-nuclear-world-war-iii/. 
Israel is especially dangerous because ...worldwide disarmament movement can stop it.

**U.S. Russia war is the most likely scenario for planetary destruction**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Hefland and Pastore 09</span>__** -- Ira Helfand, M.D. and John O. Pastore, M.D. are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat” 3/31/09. http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html) 

Since the end of the Cold War, many have ... launched from Norway for a possible attack. 

**Israeli conflict is the most likely scenario for global conflict**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nawash 9</span>__** - Kamal M. Nawash, JD, Thomas M. Cooley Law School, BA, business management, Southeastern Louisiana University, master of laws, international legal studies, American University, Legal Director of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee “Israel/Palestine Conflict May Lead to Nuclear War,” 1/15/09, http://muslimmedianetwork.com/mmn/?p=3501. 

The conflict between Israel and the Palestinians ... is YES but time is running out.



===**COTENTION 3 IS GREECE**=== 

**Despite financial crisis, Greece is increasing arms spending to match Turkey**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">AFP 10</span>__** -- “Citing Turkey threat, Greece still spending billions on defense,” AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE, 5-4-10. http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/n.php?n=debt-hit-greece-still-spending-billions-on-weapons-2010-05-04. lap

Greece, one of Europe's biggest arms purchaser, ... neighbors will be able to reach an agreement soon. 

**Military spending ensures Greek financial collapse – empirically proven**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Yavuz 10</span>__** -- ERCAN YAVUZ, “Arms purchases to counter Turkey behind Greece’s financial demise,” TODAY’S ZAMAN, 2-18-10. http://www.todayszaman.com/tz-web/detaylar.do?load=print&link=201848&yazarAd=

According to experts, the country’s major spending ... of the highest military expenditure to GDP figures. 

**Prolonged Greek financial crisis risks crushing the euro and derailing U.S. economic recovery**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Bestani 10</span>__** -- Bob Bestani, Republican Primary Candidate for U.S. Congress, “Why the Greek financial crisis matters to us,” FOSTER’S DAILY DEMOCRAT, May 14, 2010, http://www.fosters.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20100514/GJOPINION_0102/705149962/-1/FOSOPINION.

There is no doubt that the Greek crisis ... threatening to forestall the U.S. economic recovery. 

**No alt causes – Greek collapse ruins world recovery through massive investment losses**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Jewell 10</span>__** -- Mark Jewell, “Why Greece matters to US investors,” BOSTON GLOBE, 2-21-10. http://www.boston.com/business/personalfinance/articles/2010/02/21/why_greece_matters_to_us_investors/

Still, Greece matters. That’s because the risk ... countries, according to a screen by Morningstar Inc.

**Economic collapse causes global nuclear war**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Mead 09</span>__** -- Walter Russell Mead, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger”, 2/4/2009, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2. 

If current market turmoil seriously damaged t... back on track, we may still have to fight. 

**Economic collapse causes war with Russia**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nyquist 08</span>__** -- Jeffery Nyquist, author of Origins of the Fourth World War, regular geopolitical columnist for Financial Sense Online, previously a regular columnist for WorldNetDaily, “Financial Collapse and Destructive War” FINANCIAL SENSE, 9/19/08. http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2008/0919.html.

If the United States went bankrupt the ... of Russia’s recent turn of policy.

**US Russian nuclear war is probable**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Umland 09</span>__** -- Andreas Umland, DAAD Lecturer, Shevchenko University, “The Unpopular Prospect of World War III…The 20th Century is Not Over Yet,” HISTORY NEWS NETWORK, January 17, 2009, http://hnn.us/roundup/entries/60004.html.

That is because the darkness of a ... a worst-case scenario ever materializes. 


**RUSSIA WILL USE BIOWEAPONS AGAINST THE U.S.**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Ruddy 99</span>__** -- Christopher Ruddy, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, “Russia and China Prepare for War -- Part 5: Russia’s Recent Military Build-up,” NEWSMAX, March 15, 1999, http://archive.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/14/193145.

Nyquist states that in a war with ... the best way to employ such weapons. 

**Bio warfare causes extinction**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Ochs 02</span>__** -- Richard Ochs, Chemical Weapons Working Group Member, “Biological Weapons must be Abolished Immediately,” June 9, 2002, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html.

Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically ... hundreds of such plagues? HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE. 

**Growth is sustainable – there will always be resources**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Lewis 92</span>__** -- Martin Lewis, Professor, School of the Environment, Duke University, GREEN DELUSIONS, 1992, p. 184-185.

The notion that economic growth may benefit t... breakdown of the very distinction between goods and services (The Economist, “Survey of Industry and the Environment,” September 8, 1990, p. 25; see also Reich 1991).

**Growth solves all major global problems**
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Silk 94</span>__** -- Leonard Silk is Distinguished Professor of Economics at Pace University and Senior Research Fellow at the Ralph Bunche Institute on the United Nations at the Graduate Center, City University of New York. He was formerly the economics columnist of The New York Times. 1994, “Dangers of Slow Growth.” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/19930201faessay5926/leonard-silk/dangers-of-slow-growth.html]]</span>

Like the Great Depression, the current economic slump ... and more liberal and open economies and societies. 


===//**CONTENTION 4 IS SOLVENCY**//=== 

**Ending arms sales to Turkey is the only way to create sustainable regional peace, stabilize the internal politics of both Turkey and Greece, and prevent otherwise inevitable Aegean conflict.**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Vryonis 97</span>__** -- Speros Vryonis, Jr., Director, Speros Basil Vryonis Center for the Study of Hellenism, Sacramento, California, “American Foreign Policy in the Ongoing Greco-Turkish Crisis as a Contributing Factor to Destabilization,” UCLA JOURNAL OF INTERNATIONAL LAW AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS, v 2, Spring/Summer 1997, p. 89, lexis.

U.S. foreign policy has contributed heavily ... characterizes the current Greco-Turkish state of affairs. 

**Any alternative arms arrangement will fail – must be a complete withdrawal of arms support to take back negotiating power, send a consistent human rights message, and condemn Turkish military actions**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Gabelnick et. Al 99</span>__** -- Tamar Gabelnick, William D. Hartung, and Jennifer Washburn, Director, Arms Sales Monitoring Project, Federation of American Scientists, Director, Arms Trade Resource Center, World Policy Institute, and Research Associate, World Policy Institute, “Arming Repression: U.S. Arms Sales to Turkey During the Clinton Administration,” JOINT REPORT OF THE WORLD POLICY INSTITUTE AND THE FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS, October 1999, http://www.fas.org/asmp/library/reports/turkeyrep.htm#new.

In the meantime, a "peace first" strategy ... of its commitment to peace in the Eastern Mediterranean. 





===**//Turkey Relations Advantage//**=== 

**Military cooperation between Turkey and the US increasing now – U.S. perspective on the PKK is the litmus test for continued partnership.**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Larrabee 10</span>__** - F. Stephen Larrabee, Distinguished Chair in European Security, RAND Corporation, “Troubled Partnership U.S.-Turkish Relations in an Era of Global Geopolitical Change,” RAND PROJECT AIR FORCE, 2010, p. 81, http://rqpi.org/pubs/monographs/2009/RAND_MG899.pdf.

The <span style="background-color: lime;">failure</span> of the United States <span style="background-color: lime;"> [...] </span>essential to safeguarding Turkey’s national security. 

**Response to PKK violence is the single most likely short-term basis for ending the U.S.-Turkish security alliance.**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Larrabee 08 </span>__**-- F. Stephen Larrabee, Distinguished Chair in European Security, RAND Corporation, “Turkey as a U.S. security partner,” RAND PROJECT AIR FORCE, 2008, p. 30, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG694.pdf.

In the near term, however [...] unilateral military <span style="background-color: lime;">action against the PKK.</span>

**Putting the U.S. - Turkish alliance first ignores the Turkish abuses of international law, human rights, and adversarial foreign policy.**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Sitilides 97</span>__** -- John Sitilides, Executive Director, The Western Policy Center, “Dividing the Aegean Sea : A Plan in Progress?,” HELLENISTIC RESOURCES FORUM, May 19, 1997, http://www.hri.org/forum/intpol/sitil.html.

Greece's position that issues of national [...] been glaringly evident in recent months.



**Inaction over Turkey’s bad behavior risks triggering conflict in every global hotspot.**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Sitilides 97</span>__** -- John Sitilides, Executive Director, The Western Policy Center, “Dividing the Aegean Sea : A Plan in Progress?,” HELLENISTIC RESOURCES FORUM, May 19, 1997, http://www.hri.org/forum/intpol/sitil.html.

<span style="background-color: lime;">As long as geopolitical and strategic [...] </span>-state which no longer exists. 

**<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">These hotspots risk rapid escalation into global nuclear war.</span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Deitchman 04</span>__** -- S. J. Deitchman, Independent Defense Consultant “Completing the transformation of U.S. military forces: the updated military excelled in Afghanistan and Iraq, but further progress must be supported now to ensure long-term security," <span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Issues in Science and Technology,</span> v 20 n 4, Summer 2004, http://www.issues.org/20.4/deitchman.html.

First, potential <span style="background-color: lime;">opponents may field [...] </span>to the country's Islamist fundamentalist factions. 

**We control uniqueness – security relationship collapse is inevitable in the long term - rising Islamist rule, resentment at West, and thirst for power**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Taskin 10</span>__** -- Yüksel Taşkın, Associate professor of political science and international relations at Marmara University in Istanbul, “Turkey’s Search for Regional Power,” MERIP, 8-21-10. http://www.merip.org/mero/mero082110.html

Under the government of Prime [...] <span style="background-color: lime;">American aims and interests</span>.”[5] 




==Answers To:== 

===T - Military Presence = Ground Forces=== 


**Presence means overseas military assets engaged in routine functions, including arms sales – it is distinct from being present. Caselist included**

<span style="font-weight: normal;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Thomason 02 </span>__**-- James S. Thomason, Project Leader with Institute for Defense Analyses, "Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD," July 2002, <span style="color: black;">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA415954</span>. </span>

WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE? Our working definition of US overseas 
[...] production of military equipment with other nations.” [pp. 13–14]


**The term “arms sales” includes all training and routine maintenance related to the arms**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">SIPRI No date</span>__**- “Sources and methods,” STOCKHOLM INTERNATIONAL PEACE INSTITUTE, <span style="color: black;">http://www.sipri.org/research/armaments/production/Top100/Top1002007/sources_methods</span>. 

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> Arms sales. Arms sales are [...] in the SIPRI Top 100 is therefore limited. </span>



**We only have 1000 troops in Turkey – the only topical affs involve weapons**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Global Security No Date</span>__** <span style="font-weight: normal;">- “Incirlik Air Base,” GLOBAL SECURITY NEWS AGENCY, <span style="color: black;">http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/incirlik.htm</span>.</span>

Close to many of the world’s [...] 41 Turkish personnel at the facility.


**Framer’s intent**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Bauschard 10</span>__** --<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Stefan Bauschard, the President of Planet Debate, the Director of Debate for the Lakeland School District, and an Assistant Debate Coach for Harvard Debate. He also authored the topic paper for the 2010-11 foreign military presence topic, “ 2010-11 Policy Topic: Debating US Foreign Military Presence,” NFL ROSTRUM, 2010. http://www.nflonline.org/uploads/Rostrum/0510_027_037a.pdf</span>

Although the weapons that are under [...] some particular arms sales is topical.





=Negative= 
==Topicality== 
===T- non-combat=== 

<span style="margin: 0in;">. Interpretation - Presence means non-combat activities – forces engaged in combat or one-time noncombat missions aren’t part of U.S. presence </span>
<span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Thomason 2</span>__</span> – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf)

<span style="margin: 0in;">WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE? Our working definition of US overseas military presence is that it consists of all the US military assets in overseas areas that are engaged in relatively routine, regular, non-combat activities or functions. By this definition, <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">forces </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">that are located </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">overseas ma<span style="border: medium none;">y </span></span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">or may not </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">be engaging in presence activities. </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">If they are engaging in </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">combat</span></span> (such as Operation Enduring Freedom), <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">or are involved in a one-time non-combat action</span></span> (such as an unscheduled carrier battle group deployment from the United States <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">aimed at</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> ca<span style="border: medium none;">lming or </span></span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">stabilizing an emerging crisis situation),</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> then they </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">are not </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">engaging in </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">presence activities</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">.</span></span> Thus, an asset that is located (or present) overseas may or may not be “engaged in presence activities,” may or may not be “doing presence.” <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">We have thus<span style="border: medium none;"> far defined presence activities chiefly in “negative” terms—what they are not. In more positive terms</span></span></span>, what exactly are presence activities, i.e., what do presence activities actually entail doing? <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Overseas </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">military presence activities</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> are generally viewe<span style="border: medium none;">d as a subset of the overall class of activities that the <span style="border: medium none;">US government uses in its efforts to promote important military/security objectives</span></span></span></span> [Dismukes, 1994]. __A__ <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">variety of recurrent, overseas military activities are normally placed under the “umbrella” co<span style="border: medium none;">ncept of military presence. These </span></span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">include</span></span> but are not limited to <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">US military efforts overseas to train foreign militaries; to improve inter-operability of US and friendly forces; to peacefully and visibly demonstrate US commitment</span> </span>and/or ability to defend US interests; <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">to gain intelligence</span></span> and familiarity with a locale; to conduct <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">peacekeeping</span></span> activities; <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">and to position relevant</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">, capable </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">US military assets such that they are</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> likely to be </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">available</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> sooner rather than later in case an evolving security opera<span style="border: medium none;">tion or contingency should call for them.</span></span> </span></span>


===T - Substantial = 50%=== 


**A substantial reduction is defined as more than 50%**

**<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">THOMAS.gov 92</span>__</span>** **–** Summary of H.R.4421, the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, <span style="color: black;">http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d102:HR04421:@@@L&summ2=m& </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Comprehensive Base Closure Reform ... 50 percent of its personnel.</span></span>

**And, presence is the totality of military activities in each country.**

Barry M. **<span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Blechman et al</span>__</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">,</span>__ President of DFI International, Spring, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">19</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">97</span>__**</span>, Strategic Review, p.14

Given its multifaceted nature, neither ...<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> infrastructure and sustainm<span style="border: medium none;">ent capabilities."</span> </span></span>



==Counterplans== 
===Afghanistan Sexy-D Conditions CP=== 

**The United States federal government should offer to completely reduce its military and police presence in Iraq and** **Afghanistan on the condition of the meaningful inclusion and influence of the Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan in government processes.**

**The scene is Afghanistan—women are barred from Public Political action, radical feminists hide out in Pakistan for fear of being executed by** **Northern Alliance members, commit suicide as a form of protest, 7000 at least have suffered death from forced migration and** **subsequent starvation, drought, a civil war between the Taliban and the northern alliance rages, endemic poverty, poor health** **care are conditions of life while American bombs rain overhead-this is not the post soviet Afghanistan though it sounds like it – it is** **the scene of American enduring freedom – the obscene underside of a US imposed “peace”**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Ayotte and Hussain ‘5</span>__** <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Kevin, Assistant Prof. Comm. CSU Fresno, and Mary, Lecturer in Comm. CSU Fresno, NWSA Journal, “Securing Afghan Women: Neocolonialism, </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Epistemic Violence, and the Rhetoric of the Veil”, NWSA, 17(3), Fall, Ebsco)</span>

Tickner has observed ….the bodies of Afghan women as well.

**Continually instrumentalized and included only insofar as they are objects of aid, the figure of the Damsel in Distress has**
**been a key mobilizing trope for war—U.S. led intervention in Afghanistan operates to both include women on a Rhetorical level and** **exclude them on a substance level as Afghan women are subject to continual aggression from Western Feminism, U.S. allies and U.S. Bombing**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mary Anne </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Franks</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Winter </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">2003</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Hypatia, Obscene undersides: women and evil between the Taliban and the United States, 18.1)</span>

One might be led to think …once again when its aims had been achieved. 

**This indifference erases the potential for a true feminine subjectivity.**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Deutscher</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">professor in French philosophy and gender at Northwestern,</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">2002</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Penelope, A Politics of Impossible difference pg. 26-29)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Since Irigaray devotes so much careful …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Freud excludes it as a possibility. </span>

**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Our ethics of sexual difference must come first--the Aff would bury women alive and cut them off from their own becoming--the lack of our ethics in epistemology </span>****<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">guarantees extinction</span>**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Whitford</span>__**, **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">1991</span>__**, <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Margaret, Luce Irigaray: Philosophy in the Feminine, Chapter 7)</span>

Irigaray wants to restore the [...] <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">male discourse, and male society.</span></span>


===War on Terror Women's Rights CP=== 


**Text: The United States federal government should eliminate its military presence in Iraq and Afghanistan excluding the forces engaged in protecting and advancing women’s rights under The Women’s Action Plan for Afghanistan. The United States federal government should end the War on Terror.**


<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">**A**. Women’s rights are increasing now because of <span style="font-size: 13px;">US presen</span>**<span style="font-size: 13px;">ce—continued commitment is key</span>**</span>


<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Morse 10</span>__** -- Jane Morse, staff writer, “U.S. Plan Would Help Afghan Women Build Better Lives,” 2-2-10. http://www.america.gov/st/democracyhr-english/2010/February/20100202151423ajesrom0.1885296.html. Wayz lap</span>

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Empowering women is critical to improving </span>… , as well as their involvement in traditional systems of governance, such as local shuras (community leadership consultations). 

**Women’s rights are increasing now because of** U.S. **presence – continued commitment is key**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Morse 10</span>__** -- Jane Morse, staff writer, “U.S. Plan Would Help Afghan Women Build Better Lives,” 2-2-10. http://www.america.gov/st/democracyhr-english/2010/February/20100202151423ajesrom0.1885296.html. Wayz lap</span>

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Empowering women is critical </span>… of governance, such as local shuras (community leadership consultations). 

**Military withdrawal kills the** Afghanistan **women’s rights movement - causes gender inequality**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Fisher 10</span>__** -- Max Fisher, “Is the Afghan War About Women's Rights?”, 7-30-10. http://www.theatlanticwire.com/opinions/view/opinion/Is-the-Afghan-War-About-Womens-Rights-4535. Wayz lap</span>

As the war in Afghanistan enters its … TIME's video "Portraits of the Women of Afghanistan.") 


**Gender inequality causes terrorism – all credible studies are on our side**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Newswise 10</span>__** -- Newswise, “Sex and the Single Suicide Terrorist,” 3-22-10. http://www.newswise.com/articles/sex-and-the-single-suicide-terrorist. Wayz- lap </span>

When <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a martyr for Allah</span> takes … of 72 virgins for a martyr in the afterlife. 


**Nuclear terrorism __ensures__ planet-ending great power nuclear war**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Dennis Ray <span class="tagChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 9</span>__</span>, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693</span>

Years later, in 1982, at the height of the Cold War,…. unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter.

**Moral obligation to vote negative—abandoning women is tantamount to slavery**

Nicholas D. **__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Kristof</span>__**, Pulitzer Prize Winner, Columnist for The Times, 8/17/**__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">09,</span>__**, “Saving The World’s Women”, http://www.nytimes.com/2009/08/23/magazine/23Women-t.html?_r=1 

IN THE 19TH CENTURY, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the paramount … are</span>n’t the problem; they’re <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the solution.</span>

===Neoliberalism Advantage CP=== 


**TEXT: The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund should cancel all outstanding debts.**

**Debt cancellation solves neoliberalism**

Robert **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Naiman</span>__**, senior researcher for CEPR, **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">’99</span>__** (“No Jubilee for the Middle East?” Middle East Report, No. 213, Millennial Middle East: Changing Orders, Shifting Borders. (Winter, 1999), pp. 13-15.)

The campaign for debt cancellation has [...] more freedom and a better deal.

===No First Use CP vs. BMD=== 


**Text: The United States Federal Government should offer China a bilateral agreement that obligates the United States to refrain from nuclear first-strikes against China, and obligates China to refrain from nuclear first-use against the United States, so long as the agreement remains in effect.**

**The** United States **federal government should comply with the policy’s requirement, regardless of** China**’s response.**

**The** United States **federal government should ban the testing and deployment of any weapons in outer space.**

**The United States federal government should ban any “dedicated” ASAT weapons and MIRV technology.**


<span class="underline">**China**</span>**<span class="underline"> would say yes to a “no first use” policy </span>**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Zhang</span>__**, 4/20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">10</span>__** (Hui, Leading researcher on China’s nuclear policies for Harvard University’s Project on Managing the Atom in the Kennedy School of Government & Specialist in nuclear arms control and Chinese nuclear policy issues, April, The Washington Quarterly, “China’s Perspective on a Nuclear-Free World”, http://www.twq.com/10april/docs/10apr_Zhang.pdf

To move toward disarmament, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Beijing [...] </span>vision will remain simply a dream. 


**Counterplan checks space militarization, ASATs, and Chinese hostility – solves the entire advantage**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Zhang ‘6</span>__ <span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">-- </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Hui Zhang</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, Research Associate at the Project on Managing the Atom in the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, Project on Managing the Atom, "Space Weaponization and Space Security: A Chinese Perspective", </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">China Security</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, Vol 2, Issue 1. </span></span>

At this stage, it would [...] <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">United States would acknowledge and understand.</span>


**Chinese modernization is a merely a reaction to the American nuclear threat. Current modernization is only for maintaining strength, and thus won’t lead to an arms race, but the CP is necessary to prevent** China **from developing offensive capabilities.**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Tompkins 03</span>__** -- Joanne Tompkins, senior analyst at the National Institute for Public Polic, “How U.S. Strategic Policy Is Changing China’s Nuclear Plans,” ARMS CONTROL ASSOCIATION, Jan/Feb. 03. <span style="color: black;">http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2003_01-02/tompkins_janfeb03#bio</span>. Wayzata - LAP</span>


<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The Chinese</span> are quick to [...] the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">economic growth </span>of the country. 
===SMIII Block IIA PIC v. BMD=== 



**Counterplan Text: <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The United States federal</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">government should end its development and deployment of upper tier ballistic missile defense systems in Japan with the exception of the development of SM-3 Block IIA ballistic missile defense.</span>**

**Contention 1 is the Net Benefit:**

**A. SM-3 Block 2A interceptors will be sent to Europe—they’re key to defend against Iran now that Obama has scrapped NMD**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Japan Times 10</span>__** “Japan set to approve exporting new SM3 interceptors” Japan Times 7/25 [[http://www.japantoday.com/category/politics/view/japan-set-to-approve-exporting-new-sm3-interceptors]]

The Japanese government is set to [...] defense system against intermediate ballistic missiles.

**B. Iran is a major threat to Europe and other** US **allies—strong missile defense is key to prevent a nuclear attack**

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Phillips 08</span>__** (James, 7/10/08 “Iranian Missile Tests Boost International Tensions and Proliferation Concerns” The Heritage Foundation, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2008/07/Iranian-Missile-Tests-Boost-International-Tensions-and-Proliferation-Concerns)

Yesterday Iran launched nine missiles as [...] in Europe and the Middle East.

**C. A nuclear war with Iran would escalate and wipe out all life on Earth**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Hirsch 06</span>__** - Professor of physics @ University of California, San Diego. [Jorge Hirsch, “Israel, Iran and the US: Who Will be Blamed for Nuclear War?,” __Global Research__, July 24, 2006, pg. http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=2807.]

In the end of course we [...] Earth, comes to an end. 

**Contention 2 is Solvency:**

**SM-3 Block IIA solves Iranian missile threats**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Grotto 09</span>__** (Andrew, Senior National Security Analyst at the Center for American Progress “Credible Missile Defenses Needed” Center for American Progress http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/06/credible_missile_defenses.html)

In fact, the Obama administration’s [...] to the Czech Republic and Poland. 


===South Korea Sanctions/Basketball CP=== 


**Text: The United States Federal Government should substantially reduce its economic sanctions against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.** **The United States federal government should initiate and fully fund a program exchange of youth and professional basketball players between the** **United States and North Korea and the United States and ASEAN members modeled after U.S.-Russia Bilateral Presidential Commission’s Youth** **Basketball Exchange.**



**1. North Korea is willing to re-start six-party-talks – U.S**. **concessions key**

**Carter, 10**
<span class="underline2"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[Jimmy, 39th president, is the founder of the Carter Center and the winner of the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize. 9/15/2010, North Korea Wants to Make a Deal, </span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/16/opinion/16carter.html</span><span class="underline2"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">] </span></span>

DURING my recent travels to North Korea … process carefully and thoroughly confirmed. 


**2. Lifting sanctions is the key concession – jumpstart six-party-talks**
**Choo, 5**
<span class="underline2"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[Jaewoo, “Is institutionalization of the six-party talks possible?”, EASTASIA, Winter 2005, Vol. 22, No. 4, pp. 39-58.] </span></span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">The six-party talks are challenged </span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">…</span></span> by making a theoretical assessment.


**3. Concessions solve regional stability – decrease tensions and lead to North Korean cooperation**
**Roy, 10**
<span class="underline2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Denny, Senior Fellow and Supervisor of POSCO Fellowship Program Ph.D., Political Science, University of Chicago, “Parsing Pyongyang’s Strategy,” Survival, Volume 52, Issue 1 February 2010 , pages 111 – 136] </span></span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">A potentially fruitful and under-used </span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">…rapprochement and eventual </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">de-nuclearisation.</span> </span>


**4. Basketball diplomacy is a slam dunk for relations – CP is the first step in reestablishing ties.**

**__<span style="color: black;">Zeigler 06</span>__** -- Mark Zeigler, STAFF WRITER, “While the rest of the world watches Kim Jong Il, fearful of North Korea's nuclear threat, the dictator often can't take his eyes off ... the NBA,” UNION TRIBUNE, 10-26-06. http://legacy.signonsandiego.com/news/world/20061029-9999-1n29kim.html

The boss being Kim. Or, as …<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;"> It's roughly the s<span style="border: none;">ize of a basketball.</span></span> </span>

====2NC Basketball Cards==== 


**CP solves the war – playing on South Korea’s home court is key. This card is on fire, just like Kimmy J from the outside**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kim 09</span>__** -- Kim Jae-bum, “Thriving sports diplomacy,” JOONGANG DAILY, 9-28-09. http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=2910588 Wayz-LAP</span>

Two bidding committees for major … be advanced into a higher dimension.

**White Men Can’t Jump, but Yellow men can – Kim Jong Un is a baller**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Daily Beast 09</span>__** -- Daily Beast, “Kim Jong Il's Nike-Loving Heir,” 7-16-09. http://www.thedailybeast.com/cheat-sheet/item/kim-jong-ils-nike-loving-heir/heir-apparent/ Wayz-LAP

Everyone wants to know: who's going to …. is going to be a dictator."


===China CP=== 

**Text: The President of the United States should inform the People’s Republic of China that the United States federal government will remove its military presence from South Korea if the government of the People’s Republic of China agrees to abide by the missile proliferation restrictions of the Missile Technology Control Regime.**

**1. China’s rapidly proliferating missiles and related technology.**
Shirley A. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kan</span>__**, Specialist in Asian Security Affairs, 12-23-20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">09</span>__**. [CRS Report for Congress, China and Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction and Missiles: Policy Issues, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL31555.pdf] 
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Congress has long been concerned about [...] nonproliferation in North Korea and Iran. </span>

**2. China’s key to the proliferation of advanced, Western missile-technology.**
Henry **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Sokolski</span>__**, Executive director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center, September 6, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">02</span>__**. Heritage Lecture #761. (http://www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/hl761.cfm) 
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Second, </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">with </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">renewed</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> transfers of [...] </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">major c<span style="border: medium none;">learinghouse for Western missile technology.</span></span> </span>

**3. Missile prolif causes WMD warfare**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Mistry 2003</span>__** – assistant professor of political science at the University of Cincinnati (Dinshaw, “Containing missile proliferation”, Google Books, pages 9-12.) 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Thus </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the mi<span style="border: medium none;">ssile threat is real</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [...] </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">- mine the stability of deterrence.</span> </span>

**4. Pressuring on MTCR solves—China’s compliance would solve advanced missile proliferation.**
Adam J. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Hebert</span>__**, Senior Editor, Journal of the Air Force Association, December, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">02</span>__**. "Cruise Control" Vol. 85, No. 12. (http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2002/December%202002/1202cruise.aspx) 
Nonetheless, MTCR has slowed proliferation [...] option for our adversaries to pursue."


===TNW Nuclear Sharing CP=== 


**Counterplan Text : The Republic of Turkey should renounce participation in NATO nuclear sharing.**



**Renouncing nuclear sharing solves the case—functionally disarms** Turkey **without removing the weapons**

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nassauer, 2002</span>__**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">. </span>(Otfried, NATO’s Nuclear Posture Review: Should Europe end nuclear sharing? BITS Policy Note 02.1, April, www.bits-berlin.de/public/policynote/pn02-1.htm)

This policy note does not pretend [...] of the International Court of Justice. 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**Ending nuclear sharing solves proliferation—they’re the key barrier to the NPT in the status quo**</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nassauer, 2002</span>__**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">. </span>(Otfried, NATO’s Nuclear Posture Review: Should Europe end nuclear sharing? BITS Policy Note 02.1, April, www.bits-berlin.de/public/policynote/pn02-1.htm)

NATO’s <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">nuclear sharing</span> arrangements <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">have been [...] is being reduced</span>, not expanded. 


**CP solves case better—renunciation of nuclear sharing by NATO sends a positive signal to** Russia **that spurs future bilateral reductions in TNW**

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nassauer, 2002</span>__**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">. </span>(Otfried, NATO’s Nuclear Posture Review: Should Europe end nuclear sharing? BITS Policy Note 02.1, April, www.bits-berlin.de/public/policynote/pn02-1.htm)

The r<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">enunciation of</span> the technical capability [...] <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">-nuclearize NATO-Russia relations.</span>

**Ending nuclear sharing solves Turkish credibility—allows them to fully comply with the NPT**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">LAMOND & INGRAM</span>__**, BRITISH-AMERICAN SECURITY INFORMATION COUNCIL, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">09</span>__** [CLAUDINE & PAUL, “POLITICS AROUND US TACTICAL NUCLEAR WEAPONS IN HOST STATES”, BASIC GETTING TO ZERO PAPERS, NO. 11, JANUARY 23, HTTP://WWW.BASICINT.ORG/GTZ/GTZ11.PDF, P. 4]//

There is a rising sentiment amongst [...] would receive overwhelming public support.22


===TNW Pit Stuffing CP=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should not end its B61 bombs presence in the** Republic of Turkey**. The United States federal government should pit stuff its B61 bombs in the Republic of Turkey.**



**Pit stuffing makes weapons unusable – can’t detonate anymore**

**__<span style="color: black;">Garwin ‘1 </span>__**(Richard, http://www.fas.org/rlg/010208-sipri.htm), SIPRI Workshop, Paris, July 6, 2001, Council on Foreign Relations, New York, Technologies and Procedures to Verify Warhead Status and Dismantlement

A more permanent method, pit [...] which may have a different structure.


**More disassembly makes accidents inevitable.**

**__<span style="color: black;">Brian ‘6 </span>__**(Danielle, http://www.pogo.org/pogo-files/letters/nuclear-security-safety/nss-pantex-20061212.html). POGO letter to DOE Secretary Bodman regarding serious safety problems at Pantex, a nuclear weapons assembly facility, Project on government oversight, December 12, 2006

In November 2006, the Project [...] and indeed the entire Texas panhandle.


**Accidents lead to plutonium release, causes cancer**

**__<span style="color: black;">Sussex ’96</span>__** (Alan, http://www.mmmfiles.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=31&itemid=29), “Dismantling the Bomb, Or What I Did On My Summer Vacation”, Reprinted from the OUTLOOK, August, 1996, The Millennial Files 

There are over 6,000 [...] (cancer causing agents) known.





===Threaten Russia CP=== 




**Text: The United States federal government should commit to reduce all of its military presence necessary for the counterinsurgency mission in Afghanistan unless the government of Russia agrees to lift all restrictions on non-governmental organizations operating in Russia.**



**Contention One: The CP’s competitive—it’s less than the plan and is net beneficial.**



**1. Recent Russian legislation ushered in an assault on NGOs and democracy.**
Barry F. **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Lowenkron</span>__**, Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, 2-8-20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">06</span>__**. [Testimony at a Hearing of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, p. ln] 

<span class="highlight2"><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9.5pt;">I welcome this opportunity to share [...] </span><span style="background-color: lime; color: windowtext; font-size: 9.5pt;">chilling effect on Russian civil society.</span></span>




**2. Continued assault on Russian NGOs will result in Russian nationalism, militarism, and revolution.**

Charles **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Digges</span>__**, journalist, 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">06</span>__**. [Bellona, Russian democracy smothered by NGO law, corruption and a muzzled media, http://www.bellona.org/articles/articles_2006/seminar_ngos] [quals added] 
<span class="highlight2"><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9.5pt;">The future of NGOs and possi<span style="border: medium none;">ble </span> [...] </span><span style="background-color: lime; color: windowtext; font-size: 9.5pt;">can <span style="border: medium none;">Russia survive a third revolution?”</span></span></span>




**3. Russian revolution guarantees nuclear war with the US, environmental destruction, and nuclear terrorism**

Steven R. **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">David</span>__**, Ph.D., Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, Feb. 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">99</span>__**. [Foreign Affairs 78(1), Saving America from the Coming Civil Wars, p. Academic Search Premier] 

<span class="highlight2"><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9.5pt;">Should <span style="border: medium none;">Russia succumb to internal war</span> [...] </span><span style="background-color: lime; color: windowtext; font-size: 9.5pt;">would follow a Russian civil war</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-color: lime; color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>




**4. Linkage between foreign policy interests and human rights protection is crucial to signal a US commitment to reform**

Michael **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">McFaul</span>__**, Ph.D., Director of the Center on Democracy, Development, **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">and </span>__**Rule of Law at Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies at Stanford, Non Resident Fellow at Carnegie, James M. **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Goldgeier</span>__**, Professor of Political Science and International Affairs, George Washington University; Public Policy Scholar, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars (2007), Nov. 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">05</span>__**. [Hoover, What To Do About Russia, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/2921316.html] 

<span class="highlight2"><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9.5pt;">At a time when <span style="border: medium none;">Russia is </span> [...] </span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt;">and it can be successful again.</span>





**5. We solve even if Russia says no—the SIGNAL of the counterplan is key to spark internal reform.**

Michael **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">McFaul</span>__**, Ph.D., Director of the Center on Democracy, Development, and Rule of Law at Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies at Stanford, Non Resident Fellow at Carnegie, **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">and </span>__**James M. **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Goldgeier</span>__**, Professor of Political Science and International Affairs, George Washington University; Public Policy Scholar, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars (2007), Nov. 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">05</span>__**. [Hoover, What To Do About Russia, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/2921316.html] 
<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt;">The battle for democracy within Russia [...] is a mere $48 million. </span>



===Northern Afghanistan PIC=== 



**<span class="ver12blkht">Text: The United States federal government should withdraw all of the United States federal government’s counterinsurgency troops from southern Afghanistan.</span>**


**Partition prevents a Taliban takeover—it creates a model state in the North**

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Brooks 09</span>__** (Webster Brooks, senior fellow at the Center for New Politics & Policy, 10/18/09 “Obama Can Win Afghanistan With Soft Partition & the “Reverse McCrystal Strategy”” Brooks Foreign Policy Review Blog, http://brooksreview.wordpress.com/2009/10/18/obama-can-win-afghanistan-with-soft-partition-the-%E2%80%9Creverse-mccrystal-strategy%E2%80%9D/)

Critics of the Reverse McCrystal Strategy will undoubtedly …. they would confront a far less formidable adversary.



===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Surge CP**</span>=== 



**Text: The United States federal government should publicly eliminate its withdraw deadline in Afghanistan and should increase troop deployment consistent with McChrystal’s original request. The United States Congress should permanently expand the end strength of the United States Army by 100,000 troops. Congress should create a 15-month enlistment option for the Armed Forces with no requirements to serve in either the National Guard or the Army Reserves after the enlistee’s term has ended. Congress should create a post-service educational benefit for the Armed Forces that pays loans for the enlistee’s post-secondary education.**



**Plans for withdrawal create a self-fulfilling prophecy, dooming solvency and emboldening terrorists—only the surge can solve and prevent Taliban take-over**
**__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Rubin, 9</span>__** (Michael, resident scholar at AEI, “ Not Nearly Enough on Afghanistan”, 12/1/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/101375)

There should be nothing wrong with … prepare for a dozen new Afghanistans.

**solves cred**


**__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Rubin, 10</span>__** – resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute; senior lecturer at the Naval Postgraduate School's Center for Civil-Military Relations; and a senior editor of the Middle East Quarterly. (Michael, Public Square, 3/8, “The Afghanistan Withdrawal: Why Obama Was Wrong to Insist on a Deadline,” http://www.michaelrubin.org/7033/afghanistan-withdrawal-deadline)

Obama's deadline for withdrawal snatches … frontlines will pay the price.



**Increasing end strength and recruitment solves overstretch**

**__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Scholer et.al.</span>__** – Director of National Security Policy at the Third Way – **__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">2005</span>__** (Aaron Scholer et. al., John Kott – research analyst, Josh Smith – national security fellow, and Jessica Dillon – Domestic Policy Fellow. Boots on the Ground. May, http://www.third-way.com/products/12)

There is no easy solution to this … and fewer recruits will not be broken.


**COIN is uniquely key to winning hearts and minds – withdrawal would crush CT’s effectiveness and embolden terrorists**
**__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Grant, 10</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[George Grant is the Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director at The Henry Jackson Society, the author of a number of briefing papers with relevance in this field, including an analysis of the political, economic and philosophical drivers of radical Islamism in the Muslim World as well as a report on China’s rise in Africa, and what it means for the continent’s democratic and economic prospects, Masters Degrees in History, “Succeeding in Afghanistan,” Henry Jackson Society: Project for Democratic Geopolitics is a crosspartisan, British think-tank, 2010, http://www.worldsecuritynetwork.com/documents/Succeeding_in_Afghanistan.pdf]</span>

ConCLUSion The argument that has run … as so many seem to think.

**We’re winning the war now – sustained effort is key – their ev is too old**
**__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Boot 9-2-10</span>__** -- Max <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Boot</span></span>, Council on Foreign Relations National Security Senior Fellow, 9/2/2010, "Afghanistan: The Case for Optimism," http://www.cfr.org/publication/22878/afghanistan.html

The assumption that underlies …. a result, are down sharply.

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**We’ll win empirics – COIN works when its properly resourced**</span>

**__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Kagan 09</span>__** - a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and co-author of "Ground Truth: The Future of U.S. Land Power" (AEI Press, 2008). (September 5, Frederick , “A Stable Pakistan Needs a Stable Afghanistan” http://defenddemocracy.org/index.php?option=com_acajoom&act=mailing&task=view&listid=5&mailingid=127&Itemid=99 )

Trying to win … enough to try.







==="Korea" PIC=== 


**Text replaces "Korea" with "Corea"**


**The Aff used the word “Korea” with a “K”—this is racist and erases the colonial history of Corea—replacing the term solves**

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">GOLDSEA 2003</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Asian American daily magazine, “KOREA OR COREA?” </span>[[http://www.goldsea.com/Air/Issues/Corea/corea.html]]<span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>

Japan's annexation of Corea didn't ... name in English useage. Who better than concerned Asian Americans to help change it back?


Language is critical—colonialist language shapes our thinking and traps us in a cycle of violence

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">SHAHADAH 2005</span>__** (Owen ‘Alik, Filmmaker and Writer, “Linguistics for a New African Reality,” December,[[http://www.africanholocaust.net/news_ah/language%20new%20reality.htm]])


Words play a critical role in articulating ... and more over the legacies of those systems.


==="We" PIC=== 


CP text replaces "We" with "you and I"


**Use of the term ‘we’ paves the way for government intervention into individual lives and the debate space – this form of politicization in debate causes tyrannical rule and coercion, crushing the possibility for participatory democracy**

Roger <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kerr</span></span>, Executive Director of the New Zealand Business Roundtable, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘3</span></span> (“The 'We' Word: And the Tyranny of the Majority” http://www.cis.org.au/policy/summer03-04/polsumm0304-4.htm)
Of all such terms, <span class="underline">…<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">world </span>at worst<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span></span>


**Unchecked tyranny causes mass suffering**

<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Rummel</span></span>, Professor Emiritus at University of Hawaii, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">19<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">94</span></span></span> [“Death By Government”, http://www.hawaii.edu/powerkills/DBG.CHAP1.HTM]
Power kills, absolute Power …Century Book of the Dead.


**NO VALUE TO LIFE IN A WORLD OF COERCIVE GOVERNMENTS AND DEBATE**

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foley, 85</span></span> (Ridgway K. Foley, Jr., a partner in Schwabe, Williamson, Wyatt, Moore & Roberts, practiced law in Portland, Oregon, The Freeman, “Essay on Caring,” April 1985, vol. 35, no. 4, www.libertyhaven.com/politicsandcurrentevents/politicalpartiesoractivism/essayoncaring.html)
Essay on Caring Political Aspirants are … to care - -for themselves ! 


===Afghanistan Word PIC=== 




**Using the name “Afghanistan” endorses a history of violence and colonization**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nazary ’06</span>__** -- Ali Maisam Nazary is a student in Politics at UCLA who was born in Kabul. He is a contributor to Khawaran Magazine and has a weekly TV show. June 2006. “Name Change in Afghanistan.” http://archive.khawaran.com/Engl_AliMuslimNazari_NameChangeInAfghanistan.htm

Even to this day most people … consequences in the future with civil and sectarian violence.


**Language is critical—colonialist language shapes our thinking and traps us in a cycle of violence**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">SHAHADAH 2005</span>__** (Owen ‘Alik, Filmmaker and Writer, “Linguistics for a New African Reality,” December,http://www.africanholocaust.net/news_ah/language%20new%20reality.htm)


Words play a critical role in articulating … more over the legacies of those systems.


===Iraq Word PIC=== 



**Calling it Iraq perpetuate a view of the nation that ignores ethnic, cultural and historical backgrounds—that’s simply works to justify Colonialist conceptions of the Middle East. Replacing the word with Aram Nahrain solves.**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Megalommatis 07</span>__** Prof. Dr. Muhammad Shamsaddin Megalommatis 5/12/2007 “The Only Peaceful 'Iraq' is a confederation named Aram Nahrin - Mesopotamia” (Athens University (Classical Studies, Ancient Greek and Latin, Greek and Roman History, Art History, Archaeology, Religion, Mythology, Literature and Philosophy) Institut Francais d' Athenes Language and Literature Degrees (in French Literature) Institut National des Langues et Civilisations Orientales (Russian Literature Arabic Language) Institut d' Etudes Politiques de Paris DEA Bien (Political Sciences, Eastern European, Slavic and Soviet Studies) 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The basic problem of </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Iraq was</span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;"> its ,,, Saddam Hussein’</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">s (or Muqtada Sadr’s) </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Iraq</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>



**Language is critical—colonialist language shapes our thinking and traps us in a cycle of violence**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">SHAHADAH 2005</span>__** (Owen ‘Alik, Filmmaker and Writer, “Linguistics for a New African Reality,” December,http://www.africanholocaust.net/news_ah/language%20new%20reality.htm)


<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Words play a critical role </span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">… </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> more over the legacies of those systems. </span>




==Kritiks== 



===**Hillman K**=== 




**1. Their vision of the end of war as peace masks the ongoing psychic violence caused by a denial of our fundamental love of war.**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">James **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Hillman</span>__**, Retired Director, Jung Institute, A TERRIBLE LOVE OF WAR, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">04</span>__**, p. 31-33.</span>

The specific syndrome suffered by American [...] of boot-camp basic training.


**<span style="margin-left: 0.45in; text-indent: -0.25in;">B. Impacts – </span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0.45in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1. Peace is merely the absence of war – it leaves us in a state of psychic numbness </span>**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">James **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Hillman</span>__**, Retired Director, Jung Institute, A TERRIBLE LOVE OF WAR, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">04</span>__**, p. 30-31.</span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">The worst of war is that [...] </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">th<span style="border: medium none;">at he declared for a sword. </span></span> </span>

**2. If we do not search for and then embrace the part of our ego that loves war, we will be doomed to self-annihilation.[[#_GoBack]]**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="addmd">Walter A. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Davis</span>__**,</span> “Deracination: historicity, Hiroshima, and the tragic imperative”, Pg. 93-96, 2-20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">01</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">War also provides the basis for [...] </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">bring the underlying</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> configuration of </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">desire</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> that </span> </span>
<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">persists as its unconscious to closure </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;"> [...] </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">to give that principle sublime expression. </span> </span>


**<span style="margin-left: 0.45in; text-indent: -0.25in;">C. Alternative</span>**

**Text – Reject the affirmative in order to embrace our love of war.**

**Only the alt solves; we cannot define or understand “peace” until we accept a paradigm shift, an embracement of our love for war. Scientific approaches that define war in body counts, in facts and terms that mask our natural sides.**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">James **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Hillman</span>__**, Former Director, Jung Institute, A TERRIBLE LOVE OF WAR, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">04</span>__**, p. 1-3 </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">We can never prevent war</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> or [...] </span></span>is the purpose of this book.


===**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Security K</span>**=== 




<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**First, the discourse of security confines politics within a metaphysical regime of control**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dillon 1996</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, University of Lancaster, THE POLITICS OF SECURITY, p. 13-14)</span>

There is a preoccupation, which links both ... provides a means of addressing that fundamental question.




<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**Security requires the process of threat construction to masquerade as international benevolence—the ritualistic call to action predetermines the outcome of the Aff by perpetuating continual crises by which security apparatuses justify themselves**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dillon and Reid</span>**, <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Politics at the University of Lancaster and lecturer in international relations at Kings College in London,</span> **<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2000</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[Michael and Julian, "Global Governance, Liberal Peace, and Complex Emergency," Alternatives vol. 25, issue 1, spring, EbscoHost] </span>
As a precursor to global governance, governmentality, ... in which life is variously (policy) problematized by it.


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**And, violence is inevitable—the affirmative will always be able to locate external threats to the world because danger is an integral feature of the human condition. However, the desire to fight against external dangers gives way to a war on difference. This drive for ontological completion ignores that the world can never be managed or secured** </span>
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Der Derian 1995 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(JAMES, ON SECURITY, 32-4) </span>
In the last analysis, "love of the neighbor" is always ... by, the strategies of knowledge which seek to explain it.


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**This logic of security makes annihilation inevitable**</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**The inability to accept the inherent disorder of existence results in a violent struggle to overcome uncertainty in the name of an unattainable security—this futile quest has brought into existence the technology to eradicate life on earth and the political context that makes such an apocalypse both possible and necessary**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Campbell and Dillon</span>**, <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle and professor of politics at Lancaster University,</span> **<span style="font-size: 11pt;">1993</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[David and Michael, The Political Subject of Violence, p. 163-165]</span>

This interpretation of violence as ... from interference of ethical norms and moral inhibitions.”



**The Alternative—vote Negative to refuse the affirmative as an instance of the violent logic of security**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Burke</span>**, <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">School of Political Science and International Studies, University of Queensland</span> **<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2002</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[Anthony, Aporias of Security, Alternatives 27]</span>

It is perhaps easy to become despondent, but as ... and what its shimmering possibilities might be.



**Finally, EVEN IN THEIR FRAMEWORK our alternative outweighs the Aff—voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecy**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Graeme </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cheeseman</span>,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">and</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bruce </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ</span>**,** **<span style="font-size: 11pt;">1996 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9) </span>

This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional ... and which direct [Australia’s] policy/analytical/military responses’

====Terror Links==== 



**A. Claims of terrorism are not an objective reality**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Collins 2002</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">John Collins, Assistant Professor of Global Studies at St. Lawrence University, 2002, Collateral Language, p. 157-158</span>

Equally important for the purposes of this ... defi­nition is assumed rather than offered.

**B. Their impact claims are self-fulfilling—constant repetition of terrorism scenarios creates a vicious cycle of fear and violence**
**__<span style="color: black;">Lifton 2003</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Robert Jay, </span>Superpower Syndrome: America’s Apocalyptic Confrontation With The World, Thunder’s Mouth Press / Nation Books, p. 115-116)
The amorphousness of the war on terrorism ... with and act in concert with the Islamist apocalyptic. 



===Cap K=== 




**A. Butler’s intentional ignorance of the material realities governing the war on terror prevents solvency and perpetuates the dominance of global capital**

Paul **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Smith</span>__**, Instructor, Cultural Studies Doctoral Program, George Mason Unversity, “Precarious Politics,” SYMPLOKE 12: 1-2, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">04</span>__**, pp. 254-260, Project Muse.

The nub of all this comes … structures and attitudinal habits that express those conditions.




**B. Capitalism’s drive for material makes crisis and extinction inevitable.**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Meszaros,</span>__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> prof Philosophy & Political Theory, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">95</span>__ </span>
Istvan Meszaros, 1995, Professor at University of Sussex, England, “Beyond Capital: Toward a Theory of Transition”

With regard to its innermost determination the … the system's most uncritical defenders.



**C. Our alternative is to refuse the capitalist action in the face of the crisis presented by the Affirmative and do nothing.**

James <span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Herod</span></span>, 200<span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">4</span></span>, “Getting Free”, http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm

It is time to try to describe, at first … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> and </span>possibly even to <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">extinction</span>.



**D. Method is the foremost political question because one must understand the existing social totality before one can act on it—grounding the sites of political contestation or knowledge outside of labor and surplus value merely serve to humanize capital and prevent a transition to a society beyond oppression.**

Stephen <span class="Bold-UnderlineChar">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Tumino</span>__</span>, prof. of English at Pitt, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">0 </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;">1</span>**, “What is Orthodox Marxism and Why it Matters Now More than Ever”, __Red Critique__, p. online 

Any <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">effective political theory will </span> ... work") that masquerades as social theory.



===Environmental Security K=== 



<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**A. The Affirmative’s method for viewing and weighing impacts treats species like cans in a supermarket, embracing the logic that the worth of the environment is defined by its beneficial value to humans.** </span>

Neil **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Evernden</span>__**, professor of Environmental Studies at York, The Social Creation of Nature, 19**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">92</span>__**, page 130

In his study of endangered species, Charles Bergman ... impurities, there seems no threat of insurrection.


**B. This perspective reduces living things to mere resources, to be used at our discretion. Their framework guarantees destruction of ‘unnecessary’ species and ecosystems, and ensures the emergence of an endless stream of ecological crises.**

Charles **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Bergman</span>__**, Professor at PLU, Wild Echoes, 19**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">90</span>__**, pages 5-7
But this concept is limited by its ... where the cure for cancer will come from.


**C. This supermarket mentality strips the natural world of value, reducing it to a standing reserve of energy. The drive to convert nature into something that can be used transforms the world into a materialist wasteland. The greatest threat is avoiding nuclear war only to fall prey to an eternity of counterfeit existence.**

Michael E. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Zimmerman</span>__**, Professor of Philosophy at Tulane, Contesting Earth’s Future: Radical Ecology and Postmodernity, 19**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">94</span>__**, net-library
Heidegger asserted that human ... on earth, masquerading as material paradise.



**D. Alternative – Whether the plan itself is good is irrelevant; you have no ability to influence its passage. However, the way the Affirmative frames its discussion of environmental destruction has an effect on the way we think and act in the real world.**

**Text: Vote negative to reject the calculative justifications utilized by the Affirmative. Instead, re-deploy the calamity described in the 1AC as a metaphor for all suffering, by any species.**

**This reunification of all living perspectives acts as a slap in the face to the supermarket mentality, beginning the destruction of human domination over nature.**

Neil **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Evernden</span>__**, professor of Environmental Studies at York, The Social Creation of Nature, 19**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">92</span>__**, page 132

What catastrophe might set the sparrow free ... the technological flashfire of plane­tary domestication.

===Derrida=== 


<span style="color: black;">A. THE AFF REPRESENTS THE ENGAGED INTELLECTUAL: THEY POSITION THEMSELVES OUTSIDE OF THE REALITY THEY SPEAK ABOUT AND PROMOTE AND LEGITIMATE THEMSELVES INSIDE THE DEBATE COMMUNITY.  </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="color: black;">Jacques </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: black thick;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Derrida</span></span>__</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Directeur d’Etudes at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales in Paris, and Professor of Philosophy, French and Comparative Literature at the University of California, Irvine, 20</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: black thick;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">05</span></span>__</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Paper Machine p. 36-38 </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="color: black;"> </span></span>
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">3. Never has the task [...] the theater, and the music. </span></span>
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="color: black;">B</span><span style="color: black;">. THE FORMAT OF DEBATE BOTH RESTRICTS CHANGE AND REPRODUCES NORMS; UNDERCUTTING ANY REALIZATION OF AN ALTERNATE SOCIETY. </span>
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="color: black;">Jacques </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: black thick;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Derrida</span></span>__</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Directeur d’Etudes at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales in Paris, and Professor of Philosophy, French and Comparative Literature at the University of California, Irvine, 20</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: black thick;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">05</span></span>__</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Paper Machine p. 33-34 </span></span>
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">1. But in the first [...] ? And against the deadline im­posed? </span></span>
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Without being suspicious of your intentions [...] well, who could say no?</span></span>
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="color: black;">C. THEIR ULTIMATE GOAL IS TO ASSIGN YOU THE “FUNCTION” OF VOTING FOR THEM BY PLAYING TO YOUR INTELLECTUAL SIDE. THIS RESULTS IN YOUR SUBJECTIFICATION. </span>
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="color: black;">Jacques </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: black thick;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Derrida</span></span>__</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Directeur d’Etudes at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales in Paris, and Professor of Philosophy, French and Comparative Literature at the University of California, Irvine, 20</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: black thick;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">05</span></span>__</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Paper Machine p. 34-35 </span></span>
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">2. No but now, [...] with much more space and time). </span></span>
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="color: black;">D. ALLOWING AGENTS OF POWER TO ACT ON AND THROUGH YOU ALLOWS FOR INEVITABLE APOCALYPSE. </span>

<span style="margin-left: .75in;">Peter **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: black thick;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Coviello</span></span>__</span>**, Assistant Professor English @ Bowdoin College, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders and Generations “Apocalyspe from Now On,” **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: black thick;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">2000</span></span>__</span>**.</span>

<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Perhaps. But to claim that [...] that </span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; border-width: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">can scarcely be done<span style="border: none;"> without.</span></span></span><span class="reduce2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>

<span style="color: black;">E. OUR ALTERNATIVE IS TO REFUSE THE SUBJECT POSITION POSITED BY THE AFF TEAM AND EMBRACE YOUR OWN HUMANITY AT THE MOMENT OF SIGNING THE BALLOT BY VOTING NEGATIVE. </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span style="color: black;">AND, THAT WAS THE TEXT, HERE’S THE CARD SAYING THAT’S GOOD. </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="color: black;">Jacques </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: black thick;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Derrida</span></span>__</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Directeur d’Etudes at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales in Paris, and Professor of Philosophy, French and Comparative Literature at the University of California, Irvine, 20</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: black thick;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">05</span></span>__</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Paper Machine p. 34-36 </span></span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; border-width: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">For this "someone in me<span style="border: none;"> [...] </span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; border-width: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">it corresponds to an </span>//<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; border-width: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">unconditional affirmation</span></span>//<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; border-width: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">.</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; border-width: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Thus in a place of absolute resistance and remaining.</span><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; border-width: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">This affirmation passes through me, [...] </span></span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">an unstable and turbulent historical space.</span></span> 
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; border-width: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">What then is the first difficulty</span></span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [...] like—</span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; border-width: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">of all these others.</span></span> 
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Kant would have said (</span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; border-width: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">but</span></span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [...] </span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; border-width: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">, so-and-so.”</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> </span></span>



==DAs== 




===**START DA**=== 






**START Passing—Lugar has it under control**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Foreign Policy</span>__ (blog)** **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">9/7</span>__** (Josh Rogin, 9/7/10, " Kerry's draft resolution on New START already facing Hill pushback ",http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/09/07/kerrys_draft_resolution_on_new_start_already_facing_hill_pushback) 

The initial draft resolution to ratify [...] treaty following next week's committee vote.



**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan’s massively unpopular – Congress, Pentagon, and South Korea lobbies oppose </span></span>**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Harrison 2002</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> [Selig S., Senior Scholar – Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and Director of the Asia Program – Center for International Policy, “Korean Endgame: A Strategy for Reunification and U.S. Disengagement,” p. 180-182] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Why has the presence of U [...] their headquarters in the United States</span>




**THE GOP ARE BEHIND START NOW BUT THAT COULD CHANGE- GOP SUPPORT IS KEY TO PASSAGE**

**__<span style="color: black;">Global Security Newswire</span>__** 6/25/20**__<span style="color: black;">10</span>__**
[[[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100617_8083.php]], “Obama nuclear Agenda faces post START obstacles”- Tom Risen]


<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Ratification</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> of the arms control deal <span style="background-color: lime;"> [...] </span>a similarly “hyper partisan Congress</span>


**START key to prevent nuclear war**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: yellow; color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">Blanchfield 9</span> </span>
Mike Blanchfield, staff writer, 7-4-2009. [Montreal Gazette, “Duck and cover or a world without nukes?” http://www.montrealgazette.com/story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor=] 
Still, Blair and many others [...] weapons or we're buried by them,"







===**South Korea Econ DA**=== 



**The South Korean economy is expanding and will continue to grow**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">AFP</span>__** (Agence French Press) French News Agency, 7/12/2010, “Central bank raises growth forecast for S.Korea economy”, http://www.france24.com/en/20100712-central-bank-raises-growth-forecast-skorea-economy 

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">South Korea's central bank </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Monday </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">raised [...] </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">earlier projection of 240,000.</span>




**Withdrawal of the US military presence crushes South Korean growth.**

Jeremy **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kirk</span>__**, freelance writer in Seoul specializing in Northeast Asia, 1/22/20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">05</span>__**, Asia Times, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/GA22Dg01.html, Nicholas Eberstadt holds the Henry Wendt Chair in Political Economy at the American Enterprise Institute and is Senior Adviser to the National Bureau of Asian Research 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">South Korea has depended heavily on [...] going to be the young kids."</span>




**South Korea’s economy is key to the global economy.**

Dr. Manzur **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Ejaz</span>__**, Ph.D. in Economics from Howard University, Professor at Punjab University, writer for Daily Times and BBC, 1/5/19**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">98</span>__**, “Pakistan can learn from South Korea's economic woes,” http://users.erols.com/ziqbal/jan_5.htm 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">After dragging their feet for weeks [...] value in the last few months. </span>

**Nuclear war.**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Mead, 9</span>__** - senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, 2/4/09, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger,” http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2 ) 
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Frequently, the crisis has weakened [...] </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">, we may still have to figh<span style="border: medium none;">t</span></span> </span>



===India Relations DA=== 



**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">THE US IS FORCING RELATIONS WITH INDIA – OBAMA’S NOVEMBER VISIT WILL LAY THE FOUNDATION</span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Economic Times, 9/9</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (“US Laying Foundation For Indispensable Partnership With India: Clinton,”</span>__<span style="color: blue;">http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/articleshow/6524182.cms.)</span>__


WASHINGTON: The United States is taking steps to … relationship to the next level," she said.


**PLAN KILLS US-INDIAN RELATIONS – ABANDONS SOUTH ASIAN INSTABILITY AND UNDERMINES OUR CREDIBILITY WITH NEW DELHI**


<span style="color: black;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kaplan, 10</span>__****<span style="color: black;"> –</span>**<span style="color: black;"> senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security (August 2010, Robert D., “South Asia’s Geography of Conflict,” </span>__<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf|www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf]]</span>__<span style="color: black;">)</span></span>


He or she who sits in Delhi with his back to … we perform in Afghanistan.


**US-India relations solve nuclear war**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">New York Times ‘2 </span>__**(New York Times-6-2-2002, Lexis)

Military cooperation between India and the United … with the hunt for Al Qaeda in Pakistan.




**Independently, withdrawal causes indo-pak war**

**__<span style="color: black;">Scheuer, 10</span>__** [Michael Scheuer, author of Imperial Hubris and former chief of the CIA’s Bin Laden Issue Station, “Coming Nuclear Flashpoint,” The Diplomat, August 30, 2010, http://the-diplomat.com/2010/08/30/the-coming-nuclear-flashpoint/?print=yes] 

All this sets the stage for… , probably isn’t worth the bones of one Indian grenadier.





===Women's Rights DA=== 



**Women’s rights are increasing now because of** U.S. **presence – continued commitment is key**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Morse 10</span>__** -- Jane Morse, staff writer, “U.S. Plan Would Help Afghan Women Build Better Lives,” 2-2-10. http://www.america.gov/st/democracyhr-english/2010/February/20100202151423ajesrom0.1885296.html. Wayz lap

<span class="highlight2"> <span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">Empowering women is critical to [...] </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">local shuras (community leadership consultations).</span>


**Military withdrawal kills the** Afghanistan **women’s rights movement - causes gender inequality**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Fisher 10</span>__** -- Max Fisher, “Is the Afghan War About Women's Rights?”, 7-30-10. http://www.theatlanticwire.com/opinions/view/opinion/Is-the-Afghan-War-About-Womens-Rights-4535. Wayz lap

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> As the war in <span style="border: medium none;">Afghanistan</span> [...] </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Portraits of the Women of Afghanistan.")</span>



**Gender inequality causes terrorism – all credible studies are on our side**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Newswise 10</span>__** -- Newswise, “Sex and the Single Suicide Terrorist,” 3-22-10. http://www.newswise.com/articles/sex-and-the-single-suicide-terrorist. Wayz- lap

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-weight: normal;">When </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">a martyr for Allah</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-weight: normal;"> takes [...] </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">for a mart<span style="border: medium none;">yr in the afterlife.</span></span></span>



**Nuclear terrorism __ensures__ planet-ending great power nuclear war**
Dennis Ray **<span class="tagChar">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Morgan 9</span>__</span>**, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693

<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Years later, in 1982, [...] </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">and suffering in a nuclear winter. </span>


===Afghanistan Heg DA=== 



**Small footprint causes Taliban takeover, nuclear terrorism, and Indo-Pak war**

**__<span style="color: black;">Kagan and Kagan, 9</span>__** - former prof of military history @ West Point AND military historian (Fredrick W., Kimberly, “Don't Go Wobbly on Afghanistan”, 10/12/2009, [[http://www.aei.org/article/101110]]) 

It is very likely that the insurgency … the use of nuclear weapons.



**Small footprint annihilates international cred. Emboldens adversaries and sends a global that we’re undependable.**

**__<span style="color: black;">Twining ‘9</span>__** (Dan, Senior Fellow for Asia – German Marshall Fund of the US, former Member of Sec. State. Condi Rice’s Policy Planning Staff, former Transatlantic Fellow and Dir. Of Foreign Policy Program – German Marshall Fund of the US, “The stakes in Afghanistan go well beyond Afghanistan”, 9-30, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan) 

The surreal belief in some quarters that abandoning …. neither our interests nor our values.


**The impact is nuclear arms race and war**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Carafano 10</span>__** -- James Jay Carafano, senior research fellow for national security at The Heritage Foundation and directs its Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, “Con: Obama must win fast in Afghanistan or risk new wars across the globe,” 1-2-10. http://gazettextra.com/news/2010/jan/02/con-obama-must-win-fast-afghanistan-or-risk-new-wa/. </span>

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">We can expect similar results if </span>… defending the interests of its nations.




===NMD DA=== 



**Uniqueness - Obama’s FY 2011 budget maintains all current NMD cuts.**

Baker **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Spring</span>__**, F. M. Kirby Research Fellow in National Security Policy, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, “THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION'S BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE PROGRAM: TREADING WATER IN SHARK-INFESTED SEAS,” STATES NEWS SERVICE, April 8, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">10</span>__**, lexis.

The Department of Defense released its Ballistic Missile Defense Review …. budget request for the MDA for FY 2009.


**The plan gives Congress an offset they will use to restore missile defense funding.**
Baker **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Spring</span>__**, F. M. Kirby Research Fellow in National Security Policy, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, “OBAMA MISSILE DEFENSE PLAN PUTS AMERICA AT RISK,” STATES NEWS SERVICE, June 29, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">09</span>__**, lexis.

Step 1: Attempt to restore overall funding to the missile defense program…. H.R. 2845 in the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2010.


**Military domination and intervention through missile defense systems perpetuate the US empire**

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Heriberto </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Cairo</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">, Professor of Political and Sociological Studies, Universidad Complutense de Madrid,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;"> 2006</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">, Alternatives 31, p. 294-296 </span></span>

<span style="background-color: lime;">Military domination</span>, which in its extreme version converts places like … throw light on the change of political order that we experience now.



===Soft Power DA=== 



**OBAMA failing democracy promotion now**


The **__<span style="color: black;">Washington Post </span>__**1/19/20**__<span style="color: black;">09</span>__** (Fred Hiatt, Editorial Page Editor, “The Power of the Ballot”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/story/2009/01/19/ST2009011900849.html) 
[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/related/topic/George+W.+Bush?tid=informline|President Bush]] has soured many … but they are not a perfect overlay." 

**Withdrawal key to improving US soft power**

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">William E. **__Odom__** , Professor of Political Science @ Yale University and Research Fellow @ Hudson Institute , Retired Army Lieutenant General, Former head of Army intelligence (Reagan), former director of the National Security Agency (Reagan), and served on the National Security Council (Carter), William E. Odom, "Victory Is Not an Option", The Washington Post, 2/11**__/07__**, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/02/09/AR2007020901917.html]]</span>


Realigning our diplomacy … to stabilize their neighborhood.



**Soft power is key to US democracy promotion.**
William **__<span style="color: black;">Fisher</span>__**, Fmr. manager, economic development programs in the Middle East for USAID and the State Dept., 5-10-20**__<span style="color: black;">07</span>__**. (TruthOut, Arab Nations Say “No Thanks” to American Democracy Promotion, p. http://www.truthout.org/docs_2006/051007K.shtml) 

The US war to bring democracy to Iraq has … determinative of their attitude toward us than our values."




**Democracy promotion is a imperialist move to invade and civilize other states.**
**__<span style="color: black;">Buchan 02</span>__** Bruce Buchan B Arts (Hons), M Arts, PhD winner of B Arts (Hons), M Arts, PhD Senior Lecturer, School of Humanities Senior Lecturer, School of Humanities “Explaining War and Peace: Kant and Liberal IR Theory” Alternatives v. 27 

The Normative Superiority of Liberalism Among the … aside for the moment and turn first to a brief examination of the normative explanation.



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Red Spread DA (Also Impact Turn)**</span>=== 




**A. REDUCING RELIANCE ON THE NUCLEAR ARSENAL IS VAPID POLITICS – IN THE FACE OF NUCLEAR MODERNIZATION BY AMERICA’S ENEMIES, THE PLAN IS COLLECTIVE SUICIDE.**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">J.R. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nyquist</span>__**, Expert in Soviet strategy, Cold War history, and social theory, “Shameful Stupidity,” FINANCIAL SENSE, February 6, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">09</span>__**, http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0206.html.</span>

We no longer have a universal ideal!” exclaimed Fyodor Dostoevsky … to begin talks with the Russians on “deep nuclear reductions.”


**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">B. The impact is a Russian first strike – they have been building up their arsenal and will jump at any signal of weakness </span>**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Joel **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Skousen</span>__**, Political scientist, editor-in-chief of the World Affairs Brief, “Canceled European missile Defense Signals New Disarmament Race to War,” <span style="text-transform: uppercase;">World Affairs Brief, </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">9-25</span>__**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">-2009.</span></span>

The UK Guardian reported that, "Barack … moves by the Obama administration so worrisome.



**C. RUSSIAN NUCLEAR SUPREMACY PROVIDES A BRIEF WINDOW FOR NUCLEAR STRIKE AGAINST THE UNITED STATES—AS THE GAP WIDENS, RUSSIA'S INCENTIVES INCREASE**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Christopher **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Ruddy</span>__**, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, “Russia and China Prepare for War -- Part 4: Russia May Launch a Surprise Attack Against US,” NEWSMAX, March 12, 19**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">99</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">http://archive.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/12/53227.</span></span>

Since the end of the Cold War, the United … time since the early 1960s."



**D. THE IMPACT IS GLOBAL ANNIHILATION – RUSSIA WOULD SLAUGHTER THE CIVILIAN POPULATIONS THAT SURVIVED AN INITIAL NUCLEAR STRIKE**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">J.R. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nyquist</span>__**, Expert in Soviet strategy, Cold War history, and social theory, “Surprise nuclear missile attack, part 2,” WORLDNETDAILY, November 11, 19**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">99</span>__**, http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=19773.</span>

In Russian thinking, a nuclear … follow for millions of people.


====Link Cards==== 


**TACTICAL NUCLEAR WEAPONS ARE KEY—**RUSSIA**'S ARSENAL CONTINUES TO GROW AS THE UNITED STATES CUTS DOWN ON TACTICALS**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Christopher **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Ruddy</span>__**, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, “Dangerous Russia,” NEWSMAX, December 17, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">03</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">http://archive.newsmax.com/archives/articles/2003/12/16/232628.shtml.</span></span>

However one describes this monster … to other potential threats to our security.


**RUSSIAN NUCLEAR DOCTRINE AND STRATEGIC ENVIRONMENT HAS CHANGED—TACTICAL NUCLEAR WEAPONS ARE NOW THE LYNCHPIN OF DETERRENCE**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Mark T. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Clark</span>__**, Professor, Chair of Political Science, and Director of the National Security Studies Program, CSU-San Bernadino, “Seven worries about START III,” ORBIS, v 45 n 2, Spring 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">01</span>__**, ScienceDirect.</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">How would a START Ill-low treaty deal …e that are unregulated by any START agreement.</span>


**Only the US has the diplomatic and military influence to maintain order in the Middle East – withdrawal causes American isolationism and red spread**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nyquist 11-5</span>__** -- J.R. Nyquist, e-mail correspondence, 11/5/10. Can be found at: [[http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?p=1801569]]</span>


The issue of American deployments is complicated and best understood after a long course of reading on the subject of U.S. Containment policy. The U.S. Presence in northeast Asia is necessary for South Korean and Japanese security. These countries could not defend themselves from China, North Korea or Russia without the United States. This is not a controversial proposition. South Korea only exists today because of the U.S. troops there. Without our troops the nuclear umbrella we provide would be less credible. An attack against Japan or South Korea would entail killing Americans and would emotionally link our nation's feelings to those of the threatened countries. China is presently engaged in a massive military buildup and modernization. China is pushing territorial claims against Japan and the Philippines. As for the Middle East, protecting Saudi Arabia from Iran, and keeping the Strait of Hormuz open is strategically vital. Any disruption of the region's oil production would have catastrophic consequences for Japan, Europe and the U.S. No other power is sufficient to maintain security and stability. Only the United States has the Naval and air assets capable of keeping the sea lanes open. Those powers working against the United States, like Russia, would use oil and gas to blackmail Europe and Japan into subordination. Already the Russians have been caught openly conspiring to use energy exports as a "weapon." Imagine if the U.S. withdrew from the Middle East and Asia. Many countries would be forced to join Russia and China. America would become strategically and economically isolated. In the end, we would find ourselves beset by a powerful bloc of countries directed by Moscow and Beijing. They would begin expanding existing positions in Latin America, exploiting divisions within U.S. Society, squeezing our economy through embargo and blockade. In time, the fifth column of Communists and Left radicals in the United States would act in concert with external moves to bring about a change in the U.S. Constitution that would amount to a surrender of sovereignty and a lapse into socialism. At that point, the international Soviet would be the entire human race. 

**TNWs reduce the risk of Russian aggression and prevent renationalization of Europe.**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Yost 99</span>__** [David, Professor @ the Naval Postgraduate School, “The US and Nuclear Deterrence in Europe” – Adelphi Paper p. 14]

Historically, US nuclear forces … proliferation and the formation of new competitive coalitions.


====Impact Cards==== 


**RUSSIA WILL USE BIOWEAPONS AGAINST THE U.S.**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Christopher **__<span style="color: black;">Ruddy</span>__**, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, “Russia and China Prepare for War -- Part 5: Russia’s Recent Military Build-up,” NEWSMAX, March 15, 19**__<span style="color: black;">99</span>__**, http://archive.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/14/193145. </span>

Nyquist states that in a … best way to employ such weapons.


**Bio warfare causes extinction**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Richard **__<span style="color: black;">Ochs</span>__**, Chemical Weapons Working Group Member, “Biological Weapons must be Abolished Immediately,” June 9, 20**__<span style="color: black;">02</span>__**, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html. </span>

Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the … HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.



**AN EXPANSIONIST RUSSIA MAKES ALL OF YOUR IMPACTS INEVITABLE- WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION USE, TERRORISM, AND WARS**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">J.R. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nyquist</span>__**, Expert in Soviet strategy, Cold War history, and social theory, “Refusing to face reality,” FINANCIAL SENSE, June 23, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">06</span>__**, http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2006/0623.html<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">.</span></span>

Behind Washington’s infighting … possess untold numbers of WMDs. 

**Here’s 7 reasons** Russia **will attack**


<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Christopher **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Ruddy</span>__**, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, “Russia and China Prepare for War -- Part 6: Eleven Signs of a Russian Surprise Attack,” NEWSMAX, March 16, 19**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">99</span>__**, http://archive.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/16/84704.</span>

1. Russia's Alert Status. As reported last year, Russia … incoming US missiles. Clinton has yet to utter one word of protest.


**No VTL in the USSR**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Roger **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kimball</span>__**, Writer for the New Criterion. “Malcolm Muggeridge’s Journey” June 1, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">03</span>__**, LN.</span>

Muggeridge's great gift as a political commentator … the Red Terror. They're both horrible." 



====<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">A2: RELATIONs </span>==== 


**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">78% of the top people in the regime are ex-KGB – they are running the government. </span>**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Yuliya **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Tymoshenko</span>__**, The leader of Ukraine’s parliamentary opposition, “Containing Russia,” <span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Foreign Affairs, M</span>ay/June 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">07</span>__**.</span>

Russia's foreign policy has been … highest offices, but Russia is not a police state.) 


**ALLIANCE WITH THE UNITED STATES IS ONLY RUSSIAN DECEPTION—RUSSIA IS NOT YOUR FRIEND AND WON'T BE**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">David T. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Pyne</span>__**, Defense Analyst, “Can the US really trust Russian President Putin to be a reliable strategic partner?,” AMERICAN REFORMATION PROJECT, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">02</span>__**, http://www.americanreformation.org/policy/Defense/ReallyTrustPutin.htm.</span>

There are several reasons why the Bush Administration … of the United States and her western European allies more often than not. 

<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**Reset of US** Russia**﻿** **relations impossible – other disagreements outweigh nuclear issues** </span>
<span class="CiteChar">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">LA Times 9</span>__**</span> (LA Times 2009. “The end of Obamania,” p. Lexis) 

Obama went to Moscow to "reset" … don't think the problem is solvable."



===NATO Good DA=== 


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US will prepare for the future removal of European TNW’s by marketing the reform to its NATO allies and </span>reassuring<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> them of its dedication to their security—failure to lay extensive groundwork for the shift undermines the alliance. </span>**
Bolfrass ‘8 
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">[Alex, Research Assistant for the Nuclear Weapons and International Security Program of the Henry L. Stimson Center, http://www.stimson.org/pub.cfm?id=703] </span>
The presidential campaign inboxes are brimming [...] dominated by nuclear weapons and insecurities. 

**NATO key to deal with political violence and prevent nuclear war**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Brzezinski ‘9,</span>__** Zbigniew Brzezinski, former U.S. National Security Adviser, Sept/Oct 2009, “An Agenda for NATO,” Foreign Affairs, 88.5, Ebsco </span>
NATO's potential is not primarily military [...] States and the West more generally.



===Turkey Prolif DA=== 



**Turkey is not pursuing nuclear weapons now because of U.S. TNW presence – plan causes Turkish proliferation**
**__<span style="color: black;">McNamara and Spring 2010</span>__** --- Sally McNamara and Baker Spring, Policy analysts, “President Obama Must Not Remove Nuclear Weapons from Europe,” THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION, 3-4-10. http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/03/president-obama-must-not-remove-nuclear-weapons-from-europe.
The vast majority of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">America’s allies [...] </span>President Obama’s goal of nuclear disarmament. 

**Removing TNW’s from Turkey will lead to Turkish proliferation and European relation breakdowns**
**__<span style="color: black;">Lavoy and Walker 06</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> -- Peter </span>Lavoy and Robin Walker, Director of the Center for Contemporary Conflict at the Naval Postgraduate School's Department of National Security Affairs, “Conference Report: Nuclear Weapons Proliferation: 2016,” July 28-29, 2006. http://www.ccc.nps.navy.mil/events/recent/NuclearWeaponsProliferation2016Jul06_rpt.asp 
Bruno Tertrais of the Foundation pour [...] them to join the European Union.

**Turkish relations breakdowns undermine stability**
<span class="AuthorDateChar">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">The Daily Star </span>__</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; color: black; font-size: 9.5pt;">09</span></span> The Daily Star, “Why is Palestine a big deal for Turkish diplomacy?”, 2-9-09. 

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Turkey has gained strategic depth in [...] </span>response to his regional peace efforts.

**Turkish proliferation sparks a Middle East arms race**
**__<span style="color: black;">Spyropolous 99</span>__** -- P.D. <span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Spyropoulos, </span></span>Boston Globe, December 9, <span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">1999</span></span>, p.http://www.ahmp.org/bosglob8.html 

Many are now convinced that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a [...] security threat of the coming century.</span>


===<span style="line-height: 19px;">Japan Alliance/Heg DA</span>=== 



**A.** U.S.**-**Japan **relations are fragile – domestic turmoil puts the alliance on the brink.**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span class="CiteChar">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Washington</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;"> Post 2010</span>__**</span> ("Japan, America's top Asian ally, seems adrift. But it's not time to panic," July 28, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/07/27/AR2010072705314.html]]) </span>

WHEN THE Democratic Party of Japan [...] bumps along in the coming months.


**B. Ending missile defense cooperation destroys the foundation of the alliance.**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span class="CiteChar">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Rubinstein 2007</span>__**</span> (Gregg A., consultant on Security, Trade and Technology at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, September 5, “US-Japan Missile Defense Cooperation: Current Status, Future Prospects”, http://www.japanconsidered.com/OccasionalPapers/Rubinstein%20USJA%20BMD%20article%20090507.pdf)</span>

Development of missile defense cooperation has [...] the US and Japanese defense establishments.[[#_Toc268995232]][[#_Toc268991227]]

**C. Regional confidence in U.S. commitment is key to East Asian stability and U.S. __global__ leadership – the impact is rapid Japan remilitarization, China conflict and war in India-Pakistan and Korea**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span class="CiteChar">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Goh 8</span>__**</span> – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database) </span>

The centrality of these mutual processes [...] would appear to be much worse.


<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**military withdrawal destroys U.S. foreign policy credibility---that undermines the foundation of hegemony** </span>
<span class="CiteChar">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Tunç 8</span>__** </span>– Hakan Tunç, Professor of Political Science at Carleton University, Fall 2008, “Reputation and U.S. Withdrawal from Iraq,” Orbis, Vol. 52, No. 4, p. 657-669 

Reputation can be defined as a [...] U.S. sacrifices.13



<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**Decline in U.S. hegemony sparks nuclear wars in every key region---no viable replacement** </span>
<span class="CiteChar">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kagan 7</span>__**</span> – Robert Kagan, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, August-September 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Policy Review, online: http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html 

The jostling for status and influence [...] in the United States and Europe.




==Impact Turns== 



===Japan Alliance Bad=== 


**<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">The security commitment will inevitably collapse</span>**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Clifton **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Sherrill</span>__**, adjunct professor at Florida State University, Sep 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">01</span>__** Comparative Strategy 20:3</span>

Japanese, American, and East [...] on others to provide Japanese security.


**Their impact is outdated – U.S. deployments in Asia are no longer credible AND bilateral action like the plan decreases our deterrence**

Clifton **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Sherrill</span>__**, adjunct professor at Florida State University, Sep 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">01</span>__** Comparative Strategy 20:3

With the end of the Cold [...] <span style="background-color: lime;">U.S. security guarantee.</span>


**Proliferation makes Japanese rearm inevitable – the status quo will allow a smooth disengagement that retains United States cooperation – the plan institutionalizes the collapsing political component of the alliance and risks open hostility and total U.S. disengagement from the Pacific that makes Asian peace impossible**

Clifton **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Sherrill</span>__**, adjunct professor at Florida State University, Sep 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">01</span>__** Comparative Strategy 20:3

Current American policy rejects out- [...] <span style="background-color: lime;">ideals equated with peace and prosperity.</span>


**Absent stable peace in Asia, escalatory nuclear war is inevitable**


Jonathan S. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Landay</span>__**, national security and intelligence correspondent, 3-10-**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">2000</span>__** Knight Ridder

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Few</span></span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">if any</span> <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">experts think [...] the already shaky international nonproliferation regime</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>


**Status quo entrenchment in Japan makes a North Korean war and a messy alliance collapse inevitable – only independent Japanese nuclear capabilities can solve**
Clifton **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Sherrill</span>__**, adjunct professor at Florida State University, Sep 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">01</span>__** Comparative Strategy 20:3

To take the particular case of [...] <span style="background-color: lime;">security</span> far more than threaten it.

**The impact is extinction**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Africa</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;"> News </span>__**– 10-25-19**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">99 </span>__**

<span style="background-color: lime;">If there is one place today [...] </span>towards normalising relations with North Korea.


===Indo-Pak Spark=== 



**A. Indo-Pak war is inevitable –**
**1. Water wars.**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Doordarshan</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indian news agency, “Conflict over water between India, Pak "inevitable in future",” Strategic Foresight, http://www.strategicforesight.com/sfgnews_109.htm, 3-21-</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">05</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Krishy D</span></span>

Stating that Islamabad's key interest in … Pakistan is inevitable in the future."

**2. Scapegoating.**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">BBC</span>__**, monitoring southern Asia, “"Internal criticism" driving India to make Pakistan "a scapegoat": analyst,” p. Lexis, 12-2-**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">08</span>__**, Krishy D</span>

Now experts believe internal political compulsions … this time but how will Pakistan respond.

**3. Terrorism**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Myra</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">MacDonald</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, writer for Reuters, “Qaeda may try to provoke India-Pakistan Conflict,” Reuters, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE5B62F620091207, 12-7-</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">09</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, Krishy D </span></span>

LONDON (Reuters) - When Defense … attack on Indian soil.

**B. War now is good –**
**1.** India **will currently respond to Pakistani aggression with conventional warfare – prevents nuclear war and intervention and ends the scenario quickly.**
Walter C. **__Ladwig__** III is a doctoral candidate in international relations at Merton College at the University of Oxford, “A Cold Start for Hot Wars?; The Indian Army's New Limited War Doctrine,” International Security, Winter 2007/**__08__**, p. Lexis, Krishy D

To correct the perceived deficiencies …. smaller target than would corps. 32

**<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">2. In the status quo, nuclear asymmetry prevents Pakistani strike. </span></span>**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Brig. Saeed </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Ismat</span>__<span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> is an honour graduate from Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, USA and Command and Staff College, Quetta. Holds a<span style="border: none;"> Masters degree from Islamabad University, and has been on the Faculty of National Defence College, “Strategy for Total Defence: A Conceptual Nuclear Doctrine,” Defence Journal, http://www.defencejournal.com/2000/mar/doctrine.htm<span style="border: none;">, </span></span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">2000</span>__<span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">, Krishy D </span></span></span>

In the context of Pakistan deterrent … rate of casualties in men and material.


**C. War later escalates, going nuclear –**
**1. War must happen NOW –** Pakistan**﻿****﻿****﻿** **is surpassing minimum deterrence levels as we speak.**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Ninan **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Koshy</span>__** is formerly Visiting Fellow, Harvard Law School and author of War on Terror: Reordering the World and Under the Empire: India's New Foreign Policy, “Maximizing minimum nuclear deterrence,” Asia Times, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/South_Asia/KF04Df03.html, 6-4-**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">09</span>__**, Krishy D</span>

The new Indian Minister of State for Defense … rapidly adding to its nuclear arsenal. 

**2. Allowing Pakistan’s arsenal to develop ensures more aggression against India, causing a nuclear war.**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Sumit **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Ganguly</span>__** is a professor of political science and holds the Rabindranath Tagore Chair at Indiana University, Bloomington, “Nuclear Stability in South Asia,” International Security, Fall **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">2008</span>__** p. 45, p. Lexis, Krishy D</span>

Paul Kapur offers a somewhat different assessment … full-scale war and to nuclear escalation.


===CCP Instability Good=== 


**CCP instability is key to Chinese democratization --- pressure will trigger limited democratic reforms --- these will snowball into full democracy.**
Arthur **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Waldron 4</span>__**, Spring 2004. Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy Research Institute and the Lauder Professor of International Relations at the University of Pennsylvania. “Democratization and Greater China: How Would Democracy Change China?” Orbis, www.fpri.org/orbis/4802/waldron.democracychangechina.pdf
More surprisingly, <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Hu</span></span> has at [...] <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">China will emerge as a winner.</span></span>


**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">The transition will be stable. </span>**

Bruce **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Gilley 7,</span>__** Assistant professor of political studies at Queen's University in Canada, and former contributing editor at the Far Eastern Economic Review. “Is China Stuck?” Journal of Democracy, 18.1, January, Project Muse.

Yet what if the CCP is [...] <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">bright and no collapse is likely<span style="border: none;">.</span></span></span>




**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Chinese democratization key to averting war in Asia that could escalate globally</span>**
Edward **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Friedman 2k</span>__**, Hawkings Chair Professor of Political Science at the University of Wisconsin Madison, Fmr. China specialist on the Us House of Representatives Committee on Foreign Affairs, 2000 In What if China Doesn’t Democratize?, ed. Edward Friedman and Barrett L. McCormick. p. 121-122

Meanwhile <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">China s anxious neighbors have </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;"> [...] </span></span>the likelihood of more explosive misunderstandings.


**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">China’s key to global democracy --- they bailout authoritarian regimes and prevent global consolidation. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Edward </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Friedman 9</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Winter 2009 [...] 56.1, Project Muse.</span>

There is no other long- [...] <span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">defeating the global forces of democracy<span style="border: none;">.</span></span></span>


**Chinese Democracy prevents a right-wing military takeover – this would prompt global war**
Henry J. **__<span style="color: black;">Hyde, 5</span>__** Chairman of the House International Relations Committee. “Hong Kong, China and the World”. Heritage Foundation 2k5 http://www.heritage.org/Research/AsiaandthePacific/hl862.cfm
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">The </span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">entire world has …havoc on the world</span></span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span>**</span>


**Chinese democracy prevents nuclear war, extinction is inevitable absent alternatives**
**__<span style="color: black;">Santoli </span>__**20**__<span style="color: black;">05</span>__** (Al, “Can future nuclear war be prevented?” http://www.asiaamerica.org/publications/cif/cif-08-2005.htm)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">American and Japanese security… </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">a devastating nuclear war<span style="border: none;">. </span></span> </span>


===Democracy Bad=== 


**Democracy is bad**

**A. IT WEAKENS CENTRAL INSTITUTIONS, FORCING ELITES TO TURN TO NATIONALISM AS A UNIFYING FORCE**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Edward D. **__<span style="color: black;">Mansfield</span>__**, Associate Professor, Political … , and War,” INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION v. 56 n. 2, Spring 20**__<span style="color: black;">02</span>__**, pp. 297-337. </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">In short, newly <span style="border: none;">democratizing countries <span style="border: none;">… <span style="border: none;">and the resort to <span style="border: none;">war.</span></span></span></span></span></span>


**B. IT LEADS TO LOG-ROLLING, WHICH FOSTER VIOLENT NATIONALISM**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Edward D. **__<span style="color: black;">Mansfield</span>__**, Associate Professor, Political … , and War,” INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION v. 56 n. 2, Spring 20**__<span style="color: black;">02</span>__**, pp. 297-337. </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">One f<span style="border: none;">orm that such veto-<span style="border: none;">… <span style="border: none;">can fuel violent nationalist conflicts</span></span></span></span></span>.


**C. IT INVITES DIVERSIONARY WARS TO CONSOLIDATE ELITE POWER**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Edward D. **__<span style="color: black;">Mansfield</span>__**, Associate Professor, Political … , and War,” INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION v. 56 n. 2, Spring 20**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">02</span>__**, pp. 297-337. </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">The power of central authorities <span style="border: none;">… <span style="border: none;">policies and nationalist political rhetoric</span></span></span></span>. 

**DEMOCRATIZATION CAUSES WAR—THERE ARE MULTIPLE EMPIRICAL EXAMPLES**

Edward D. **__<span style="color: black;">Mansfield</span>__**, Associate Professor, Political … , and War,” INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION v. 56 n. 2, Spring 20**__<span style="color: black;">02</span>__**, pp. 297-337. 

Our previous studies presented case studies [...] the War of the Pacific illustrate.


**DEMOCRACY TRANSITION RISKS CONFLICT--PROCESS IS HIJACKED BY AGGRESSIVE NATIONALISTS**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Julian **__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Sanchez</span>__**, associate editor, “The … .com/links/links021505.shtml, accessed 2/20/05. </span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Gowa's position remains highly contentious … </span>to be attacking than defending.


**Democracy is bad—leads to belligerence towards non-democratic nations which aren’t winnable**
**__<span style="color: black;">Newsome 09,</span>__** 11-18, lecturer in international relations at the University of Pennsylvania, “Democracy’s War Problem”, http://www.baltimoresun.com/news/opinion/oped/bal-op.wars18nov18,0,207183.story 
What has happened to democracies at [...] wars before we reverse the trend.



**Democracy destroys economic growth**
[[#_Toc264358023]][[#_Toc252662004]][[#_Toc252397888]][[#_Toc252357595]][[#_Toc252356910]] [[#_Toc264358024]][[#_Toc252662005]][[#_Toc252397889]][[#_Toc252357596]][[#_Toc252356911]][[http://www.businessweek.com/archives/1993/b332260.arc.htm]]

Nor does democracy ensure growth for [...] rights, and so democratization begins. 

**Nuclear war.**
**__<span style="color: black;">Mead, 9</span>__** - senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, 2/4/09, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger,” http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2 ) 
Frequently, the crisis has weakened [...] , we may still have to fight 

**TRANSITION FROM AUTHORITARIANISM INCREASES TERRORISM RISKS--EMPIRICAL RECORD PROVES**

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Julian **__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Sanchez</span>__**, associate editor, “The Limits of Democratization: Will Promoting Democracy Bolster National Security?” REASON ONLINE, February 15, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">05</span>__**. Available from the World Wide Web at: <span style="color: black;">http://reason.com/links/links021505.shtml</span>, accessed 2/20/05. </span>

Research that focuses explicitly on the [...] that of the most authoritarian states. 

**Terrorism causes extinction.**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Mohamed </span>**__<span style="color: black;">Sid-Ahmed</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">, (Political Analyst for Al-Ahram Weekly), August 26, 200</span>**__<span style="color: black;">4</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">. Al-Ahram Weekly. Issue No. 705. http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm </span>
What would be the consequences of [...] , we will all be losers.



===Heg Bad=== 

Gotta love 1 off Heg DA
**Heg low- hegemonic expression is turning into acts of desperation**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Lehmann</span>__** 20**__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">10</span>__** (Ted. Feb 17. Prof at … Hegemonic Decline.” International Studies Association.) </span>

While there is a debate about … power to maintain its position.



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**a lack of resources and support for hegemony is forcing the U.S. to turn inward** </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__Gordon 06__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Phillip Foreign Affairs, "The … of the Bush Revolution," july 06, 2006. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The stalling of the Bush … argue against the new pragmatism.</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**multipolarity is inevitable**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__Layne 06__****__.__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher, The Peace of … Strategy from 1940 to the Present, p. 149. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Although balance-of-power theorists were … fully multipolar between now and 2020.</span>




**Hegemonic decline is inevitable – a transition now towards multipolarity solves conflict, proliferation, and climate change**
**__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Khanna, 08</span>__** (Parag Khanna, senior research … -t.html?_r=3&oref=slogin&pagewanted=all) 

<span style="color: windowtext;">Karl Marx and Max Weber … to sort out among themselves.</span>


**Hegemony is unnecessary**

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;"> **__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Preble 8/3</span>__** (Christopher Preble, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, taught history at St. Cloud State University and Temple University, was a commissioned officer in the U.S. Navy, Ph.D. in history from Temple University. “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?” 8/3/10) __http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/__ </span>

<span style="color: windowtext;"> Most in Washington still embraces [...] the security of their respective regions.</span>


**Transition is peaceful**

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;"> **__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Ikenberry 2008</span>__** – Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton (John, Foreign Affairs, “The Rise of China and the Future of the West”, ProQuest, WEA) </span>

<span style="color: windowtext;"> That course, however, [...] to overturn and easy to join.</span>



**turn—economy**
**a. hegemony unsustainable—economic costs**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher</span> **__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Layne, Sept/Oct 06</span>__****__.__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Impotent … Hegemonic Power," The National Interest. </span></span>

The real issue is not … afford to maintain its primacy.


**b. delaying the transition makes the costs worse—collapses the economy**
**__Layne, Sept/Oct 06.__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher, "Impotent … Hegemonic Power," The National Interest.)</span>

During the past 15 years or … base upon which it rests.


**c. US economic collapse will spark global nuclear war**
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">COOK </span>__**6 – 14 – **__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">07</span>__** retired federal analyst, former … , Economics degree from William & Mary 
[Richard C., “It’s Official: The Crash of the U.S. Economy has begun,” http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=5964] 

Times of economic crisis produce … more, how about a few nukes?


**turn—terrorism**

**a. hegemony fuels it**
**__Layne 06.__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher, The Peace of … Strategy from 1940 to the Present, p. 189-90. </span>

The events of 9/11 are another … a lightning rod for Muslim anger." 

**b. Terrorism causes extinction**
**__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Alexander in ’03</span>__** (Yonah, Professor and … , “Terrorism myths and realities”, August 28, L/N) 

Unlike their historical counterparts, contemporary … victory, there is no survival."


**turn—hegemonic temptation**
**a. it makes military aggression inevitable**
**__Layne 06.__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher, The Peace of … Strategy from 1940 to the Present, p. 152-3. </span>

There is another road to U.S. … more than they can chew."


**b. policymakers will construct threats to rationalize wars against potential great powers**
**__Layne 06.__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher, The Peace of … Strategy from 1940 to the Present, p. 185-6.</span>

<span style="color: windowtext;">Proponents of offshore balancing are … </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; color: windowtext; font-size: 9.5pt;">many times in the past."</span></span>


**c. this creates self-fulfilling prophecies and perpetual wars—risking extinction**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Manuel</span> **__Valenzuela, 2003.__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Perpetual War, Perpetual … ," www.informationclearinghouse.info/article5382.htm</span>

<span style="color: windowtext;">Today, the U.S. is responsible for 40% … </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; color: windowtext; font-size: 9.5pt;">we fear most, a<span style="border: none;"> terrorist state.</span></span></span>


**Hegemony tanks relations with Australia**
Mark <span class="CitesChar">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Beeson</span>__</span>, Senior Lecturer in … at the University of Queensland, <span class="CitesChar">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">2003</span>__</span>
SAIS Review, American Hegemony: The View from Australia, Project Muse 

If the political stock of … effect of accelerating this process.


**Australian relations are key to solve nuclear war**

Gareth <span class="CitesChar"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Evans and</span></span> Bruce <span class="CitesChar"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Grant</span></span>, <span class="CitesChar"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">1995</span></span> Australia’s Foreign Relations, p. 228-230 

<span style="color: windowtext;">The alliance has experienced the … be directly and significantly increased.</span>


**turn—entanglement wars—alliance commitments will draw the U.S. into nuclear conflicts**
**__Layne 06.__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher, The Peace of … Strategy from 1940 to the Present, p. 169. </span>

Rather than being instruments of … conflicts by its alliance commitments.


**retrenchment now solves the risk of bigger war later**
**__Layne 02__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher "U.S. Response to the … Glass'", The Washington Quarterly, 25.2, lexis. </span>

<The events of September 11 … hegemons in modern international history.>


**expanding hard power will delay hegemonic collapse, not end it**
**__Layne 06.__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher, The Peace of … Strategy from 1940 to the Present, p. 156-7. </span>

<span style="color: windowtext;">As a hegemon, the United [...]an offshore balancing grand strategy." </span>



===Free Trade Bad=== 




**Free trade guarantees unsustainable economic growth leading to ecological collapse and extinction**

Barraclough, 1994
(Solon, Former Director of the United Nations Research Institute for Social Development, “The Perils of ‘Free Trade’”, June 10, http://www.sunsonline.org/trade/areas/environm/06100094.htm)

They reject the notion that these [...] will be severely over-extended.


**Trade liberalization has empirically caused financial meltdown**
**Karen Hansen-****Kuhn,** trade program coordinator at The Development GAP and international coordinator of the Alliance for Responsible Trade.FPIF, http://www.americaspolicy.org/briefs/2001/body_v6n12ftaa.html **April 20****01** Accessed 7-13-02
When, at the first Summit [...] to globalization have further increased uncertainties.


**Free trade destroys democracy**
Ralph **Nader**, 19**93**, The Case Against Free Trade, p. 11-12
One of the clearest lessons that [...] replacing bottom-up democratic impulses.


**Free trade kills global honey bee populations**
New Agriculturalist Online, Accessed 2003 (www.new-agri.co.uk/00-5/focuson/focuson5.html)

Globalization has opened up new [...] of mite-infested broods.



**Honey bees are critical to prevent extinction**
<span class="citeChar">Gomez</span>, Bee Keeper and Apitherapist, accessed <span class="citeChar">2005</span> (Pedro, http://www.curandote.com/pgs/apiterapia/englishversion.html)

And if you like it [...] contribute to the human being survival.



**Trade allows MNC’s to consolodate power spurring global holocaust**
Ken **Reiner** Founding Member of the Alliance for Democracy, 20**02** [[http://www.thealliancefordemocracy.org/html/eng/1933-AA.shtml]]
I view the continuing growth of [...] disease if we are to survive.

**Trade interdependence causes war**
George **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Friedman</span>__**, founder and chairman of Stratfor, The Future of War, **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">1996</span>__**, p. 7-9


The argument that interdependence gives rise [...] simple statistical matter, highly likely.

===Warming Good=== 

**A. Russian oil is key to the economy but production has peaked—new arctic fields are the only way to meet world energy demand**

Fred **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Weir</span>__** <span style="color: black;">5-28-20</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">08</span>__** (Moscow Correspondent, “Has Russian oil output peaked?” Christian Science Monitor) http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-South-Central/2008/0528/p01s04-wosc.html 

The Kremlin often touts Russia's image [...] rising consumption in the coming decade. 

**B. Link—Global warming melts ice in the** Arctic**—this opens the area up to oil drilling**


**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Reuters 2004</span>__** “Global Warming Exposes Arctic to Oil, Gas Drilling” http://www.energybulletin.net/node/3072

Rising global temperatures will melt areas [...] ice movement," the report said. 


**C. Impact—Arctic melting is inevitable—delay collapses** Russia**’s economy**


**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Borgerson 2008</span>__** (Scott, International Affairs Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Coast Guard, Foreign Affairs, March/April) http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63222/scott-g-borgerson/arctic-meltdown 

The Arctic Ocean is melting, [...] its lucrative natural-resource deposits.


**D. The impact is nuclear war**


**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Ruddy 99</span>__** (Christopher, Newsmax Russia expert, March 12, “<span class="articlecontent">Russia May Launch a Surprise Attack Against US” </span>http://www.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/12/53227) 

The collapse of Russia's economy greatly [...] four months and are literally hungry."


**Increased Co2-increases earthworm activities**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">CO2 Science Magazine ‘99</span>__**
//<span style="color: black;">(Staff, “Effects of Elevated CO2 and Earthworm Casts on Grassland Plant Species,” 12/1/99, pg online @ http://www.co2science.org/scripts/Template/MainPage.jsp?Page=BrowseCatalogEnlarged&sProductCode=V2N23B4</span>// <span style="color: black;">wyo-ef) </span>//

As the atmospheric CO2 concentration continues [...] place for both plants and earthworms.

**Earthworms key to humanity**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Tompkin & Bird ‘99</span>__**
(Peter, and Christopher, “secrets of the soil,” taken from Microsoil, <span style="color: black;">http://www.microsoil.com/earthworm.htm</span> wyo -ef)

Only where you find earthworms [...] fertility of the Nilotic valley's soil.
**Ice age is coming soon killing billions**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Chapman</span>__**, geophysicist and astronautical engineer, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">08 </span>__**(Phil. April 23. “Sorry to ruin the fun, but an ice age cometh.”<span style="color: black;">http://www.theaustralian.news.com.au/story/0,25197,23583376-7583,00.html</span>)

Disconcerting as it may be to [...] we are facing global cooling instead.

**Global warming prevents an ice age**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Science Daily, 2007</span>__** (“Next Ice Age Delayed By Rising Carbon Dioxide Levels.” August 30. <span style="color: black;">http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2007/08/070829193436.htm</span>)

Future ice ages may be delayed [...] of the next five ice ages. 

**An Ice Age would destroy civilization and cause every major impact**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Stipp 2004</span>__** (David. Staff Writer. “The Pentagon’s Weather Nightmare The climate could change radically, and fast. That would be the mother of all national security issues.” February 9, <span style="color: black;">http://money.cnn.com/magazines/fortune/fortune_archive/2004/02/09/360120/index.htm</span>) 

For planning purposes, it makes [...] are poised to use the bomb.







==Specific Rounds== 

===Greenhill Round 1 - Winston Churchill LB (South Korea)=== 

* ASPEC
* START DA
* Condition China CP
* Hillman K
* Case:
** Defense
** Nyquist Turn



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Failure to show a strong commitment to the Western Pacific will lead China to attack with nuclear missiles- They are waiting for a show of weakness**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">J.R. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nyquist</span>__**- Defense Analysist, Defend Taiwan, defend America, World Net Daily, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.wnd.com/index.php?fa=PAGE.printable&pageId=9043]]</span>, April 30, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">01</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Last week President George W. [...] President Bush's stand against Chinese aggression.</span>

===Greenhill Round 3 - Dallas Jesuit GM (South Korea)=== 


* Condition China CP
* START DA
* South Korea Econ DA
* Case:
** **South Korean withdrawal wrecks regional security and causes North Korean aggression**
**__Richardson 6__** **<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]</span>**

Rumors of a substantial drawdown … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">even in a reunified Korea.</span>



** **Turn—heg**
**__Kang & Cha 3__** <span class="highlight2"><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">– *associate professor of Business at Dartmouth, AND **associate profe<span style="border: medium none;">ssor of government Georgetown’s school of Foreign Service (May/June 2003, David C. Kang, Victor D. Cha, </span></span></span>
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: medium none initial; color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Foreign Policy, “Think Again: The Korea Crisis,” http://www.ituassu.com.br/asia_fp1.pdf]</span> </span>

<span class="Underline">“The United States Should Pull Its Troops …withdrawal of that presence and abrogation of its alliance are not. </span>

===Greenhill Round 6 vs. Hendrickson DS (COIN)=== 

* T - Combat Troops =/= Presence
* Hillman K
* Threaten Russia CP
* Women's Rights DA
* Case Defense

2NR-Russia CP

===Valley R1 vs. Eden Priaire CT (COIN)=== 

* T - Combat Troops =/= Presence
* Hillman K
* India Relations DA
* Northern Afghanistan PIC
* Case Defense
CP, Case, DA


===<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Valley R4 vs. Glenbrook South BB (COIN)</span>=== 


* <span style="margin: 0.5em 0px 0px; padding: 0px 0px 0px 3em;">T - Combat Troops =/= Presence</span>
* <span style="margin: 0.5em 0px 0px; padding: 0px 0px 0px 3em;">Hillman K</span>
* <span style="margin: 0.5em 0px 0px; padding: 0px 0px 0px 3em;">India Relations DA</span>
* <span style="margin: 0.5em 0px 0px; padding: 0px 0px 0px 3em;">Northern Afghanistan PIC</span>
* <span style="margin: 0.5em 0px 0px; padding: 0px 0px 0px 3em;">Case Defense</span>

Hillman

===Valley R5 vs. Sioux Falls Lincoln EO (Iraq Colonialism)=== 

* Threaten Russia CP
* Soft Power DA
* NMD DA
* Case

NMD/Case


===Valley Double Octos vs. Glenbrook South TS (COIN)=== 

* T - Combat Troops =/= Presence
* Hillman K
* Surge CP
* NMD DA
* Case

===New Trier R2 vs. Oak Park CR (South Corea)=== 

* Condition China CP
* "Korea" PIC
* NMD DA
* Econ DA
* ASPEC
* Case

===New Trier R3 vs. Glenbrook South SV (COIN)=== 

* Security K
* Threaten Russia CP
* NMD DA
* India DA
* Case

===New Trier R5 vs. Northside Prep CT (Critical Japan)=== 

* Eco Security K
* T - Substantial = 50%
* Condition China CP
* NMD DA
* Case

===New Trier Doubles vs. Glenbrook South ST (COIN)=== 

* Security K
* NMD DA
* India Relations DA
* Threaten Russia CP

===Caucus R1 vs. Millard South AC (Cat's Cradle)=== 

* "We" PIC
* Hillman K
* Framework
* CP Text:The United States federal government should decommission and disarm all of its weapons and destroy its military.
* Case

===Caucus R4 vs. SFL EO (COIN)=== 

* Threaten Russia CP
* COIN Uniqueness/Surge CP
* Case

===Caucus R5 vs. OPRF HH (War on Terror/Butler)=== 

* Capitalism K
* NMD DA
* Case (Butler's wrong)

===Caucus Doubles vs. Millard South GS (Terrorism/Kincheloe)=== 

* Hillman K
* Afghanistan Word PIC
* Framework
* Case

===Glenbrooks R2 vs. BCC MN (War on Terror/Butler)=== 

* "Iraq" Word PIC
* Soft Power DA
* NMD DA
* Afghanistan Conditions CP

===Glenbrooks R4 vs. Jesuit DM (South Korea)=== 

* NMD DA
* Sanctions/Bball CP
* Condition China CP
* Case (Chinese expansionism DA, case defense)

===Glenbrooks R5 vs. Barstow OW (Iraq)=== 

* START DA
* Iraq Word PIC
* Hillman K
* Case

===Dowling - Every debate (COIN)=== 

* ASPEC
* Security K
* Surge CP
* Case
** COIN Good
** Pakistan/Terror defense
** Indopak Spark (vs. Ho Flo JO)

===Blake R1 vs. Greenhill KP (Japan)=== 

* NMD DA
* Condition China CP
* China Expansionism DA ("Nyquist DA")
* Advantage CP: The United States federal government should use all necessary means to maintain the Kadena Airbase. The United States federal government should provide all necessary funding to Japan for the purpose of developing Missile Defense and co-operate with Japan on its development.
* Case defense

===Blake R3 vs. SPASH CM (COIN)=== 

* T - Non Combat
* Surge CP
* Security K
* India Relations/Indopak War DA
* Heg DA
* Case

===Blake R5 vs. Elanor Roosevelt AC (Iraq Racism)=== 

* Iraq word PIC
* Women's Rights CP
* NMD DA
* Case

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]