<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">[[toc]]
</span>
=<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-color: #000000; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1px; border-right-color: #000000; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1px; border-top-color: #000000; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1px; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 5px; padding-left: 5px; padding-right: 5px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>= 

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Contention One is the Status Quo:**</span>== 
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**It’s 60 years since the Korean war started and the US is still trying to fight it. 28,000 troops are deployed along the DMZ, and they aren’t coming back anytime soon.**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Lasseter 10 (Tom, 6/21, Staffwriter, “Sixty years after war broke out, Korean peninsula still in limbo, accessed 6/21, http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/06/21/96276/sixty-years-after-war-broke-out.html, JH)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">As the 60th anniversary …hordes of Northerners over its borders.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**US Forces in Korea lock the US into a cycle of failure where the only response to every crisis is hardline policy which escalates each confrontation.**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Lai 9 David Lai, Prof of Asian Security Studies at the Strategic Studies Institute, Army War College, 2009, “Obama's Policy Option on North Korea,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=286</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">We may never figure out what … not feel the need to develop nukes).</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Crises escalate because we make them—military deployments in Korea are based on academic, media, and policymaker visions of North Korea as rogue, unpredictable, evil and fundamentally other—and Korea’s rational response to these images confirm our beliefs.**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Bleiker 5 Roland, Prof of IR at UQueensland, Divided Korea, pp. xxviii-xxxiv)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">RECURRING PATTERNS OF CONFLICT Diplomatic breakthroughs in Korea are usually … detect changes when they occur.15</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Threat discourse about North Korea ignores the US’s role in creating the conflict--this makes future crises inevitable and makes US miscalculation likely. Must challenge construction of threats**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Bleiker 2005 (Roland, Professor of International Relations, pHD from the Australian National University, “Divided Korea: Toward A Culture of Reconciliation,” p. 103-4, TH)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Security policy is about facing …task in the pages that follow.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Crisis escalation to a new Korean War is inevitable within the conventional security framework.**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Bleiker 5 Roland, Prof of IR at UQueensland, Divided Korea, pp. 1)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">In this first part, I rethink … for a more peaceful future.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Mindless escalating rhetoric surrounding North Korea will justify US interventionist war that will result in global conflict.**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Cumings 5 Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, Bruce 487-88) ncp)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">The point is not that North Korea … to a regional if not a global holocaust.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">And, failure to resolve the confrontation between North and South will result in intentional, miscalculated, or accidental nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war causes rapid cooling and ozone disruption, collapses the economy, and spills over to other hot spots</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Hayes & Hamel-Green 10 *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">The international community is increasingly aware … consideration from the international community.
</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Even without war--succession politics could lead to a collapse of the North Korean regime in the short term. The result is a region-wide crisis that would derail Asian growth and cause nuclear confrontation.**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">The Economist 9/23 http://www.economist.com/node/17093485?story_id=17093485&fsrc=rss</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">NORTH KOREANS are by and … needs to rethink its approach.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Collapse is inevitable. Antagonistic rhetoric ensures that any collapse will be violent—we must create a non-hostile, ethical discourse for any shot at a soft landing.**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Bleiker 2005 (Roland, Professor of International Relations, pHD from the Australian National University, “Divided Korea: Toward A Culture of Reconciliation,” p. 103-4)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">The exact scenario of North Korea's … identity and difference.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Collapse of a hostile North Korean regime with American troops on the peninsula results in great power war between China and Russia and the U.S.**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Stares and Wit 9 (January, Senior fellow for Conflict Prevention and director of the Center for Preventive Action at the Council on Foreign Relations, Adjunct senior research fellow at the Weatherhead East Asia Institute, Columbia University, “Preparing for Sudden Change in North Korea”)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Under these circumstances, the uncertainty … for misunderstanding and outright discord.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Korea is just one part in a security industry that manufactures low probability threats and worst case scenarios in order to build up the state’s defenses and defend its territory**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Lipschutz 98 [Ronnie, prof of politics at UC Santa Cruz, “Negotiating the Boundaries of Difference and Security at Millennium's End,” On Security, ed. Ronnie Lipschutz, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/index.html]</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">What then, is the form and content … the notion of security, the speech act.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Securitization ensures total war and genocide - representations of extraordinary risks ensures astonishing violence**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Friis 2k, Karsten Friis, UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, 2k [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">The problem with societal securitization … truth is never questioned.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Threats real is not responsive – psychological manipulation by politicans means acting on threat perceptions makes war inevitable. Deconstructing threats is try or die.**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Mack 91 (John E., MD in Psychiatry, Psychodynamics of International Relationships Vol 1 p. 58-59)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">The threat of nuclear annihilation … anything approaching objectivity.”</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Independent of North Korea—American threat rhetoric locks in troop deployments in South Korea which result in brutal militarist structural violence.**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Imjin Scout no date given http://www.imjinscout.com/Korean_Prostitution/C6.html</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Consequently, despite the fact … social and political systems in South Korea.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**The structural violence of militarism kills more than any war- our impact outweighs**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Gilman 83 Dr. Robert C. Gilman, Ph.D. President of Context Institute Founding Editor of IN CONTEXT, A Quarterly of Humane Sustainable Culture One of the articles in The Foundations Of Peace (IC#4) Autumn 1983, Page 8 http://72.14.203.104/search?q=cache:p_T2jwNn8g4J:www.context.org/ICLIB/IC04/Gilman1.htm+nuclear+war+%22structural+violence%22&hl=en</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">THE HUMAN TENDENCY toward, and … our most serious flaw.</span>
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Plan**</span>== 
The United States Federal government should remove all or nearly all of its military presence from South Korea.

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Contention Two is Solvency**</span>== 


<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**For once, take North Korea at their word: withdrawing American forces is critical to peace—it forces North Korea and South Korea into a new dialogue untainted by US cold-war pressures.**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Scofield 4 (David, Staffwriter for the Asia Times, Feb 28, “Korean Peace requires US compromise, troop exit”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/FB28Dg06.html, Date accessed: 6/28, JH)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">A new deal today would … extricating itself from what has become its Korean quagmire.
</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Combining that dialogue and a critical orientation towards the traditional security studies approach to the peninsula is crucial to create a lasting peace and avoid catastrophe.**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Bleiker 5 (Roland, Professor of International Relations, pHD from the Australian National University, “Divided Korea: Toward A Culture of Reconciliation,”)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">THE IMPORTANCE OF DIALOGUE Dialogue is undoubtedly one … alternatives, a situation requiring dialogue, a receptive reality.64</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**U.S. withdrawal is a game-changer – the non-aggression signal would deescalate current tensions and jumpstart denuclearization**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Lai 9 David Lai, Prof of Asian Security Studies at the Strategic Studies Institute, Army War College, 2009, “Obama's Policy Option on North Korea,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=286</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">President Obama should see that … peaceful means, not through war.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Finally, the Aff’s speech act of deconstructing threats breaks can create solidarity in other countries to create international change—example is anti-apartheid campaign.**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Marsh 95 (Pearl-Alice, “Grassroots Statecraft and Citizens' Challenges to U.S. National Security Policy,” in On Security, R. Lipschutz, ed. http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz15.html</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">One of the goals of this volume is … "reconstructed" images to influence national security policies. 10</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Neg analyses are corrupt—military and political strategists view Korea through an orientalist lens**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Barkawi 8. Tarak (lecturer in international security at the Centre of International Studies, University of Cambridge, specializes in the study of war jh), “Orientalism at War in Korea,” http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p252622_index.html draft not for citation</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Military and political leadership, as well as … untoward course of events.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Orientalism corrupts rational decisionmaking–an examination of identity constructs is key**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Barkawi 8 Tarak (lecturer in international security at the Centre of International Studies, University of Cambridge, specializes in the study of war jh), “Orientalism at War in Korea,” http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p252622_index.html draft not for citation</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">A large literature exists on misperception, … home, for elites and publics.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Orientalism allows war and genocide against the irrational Oriental other. Accepting this ideology sparks a new wave of Crusades. Once we have designated a group of people as inherently different – the road to their genocide is short.****</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Batur ‘7 PINAR • Vassar College (Handbook of the Sociology of Racial and Ethnic Relations, “Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide”)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Albert Memmi argued that “We have no idea … 21st century opened up with genocide, in Darfur</span>



=<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-color: #000000; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1px; border-right-color: #000000; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1px; border-top-color: #000000; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1px; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 5px; padding-left: 5px; padding-right: 5px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>=