=Affirmative= 
==__Plan: The United States Federal Government should withdrawal all of the United States Federal Government’s military and police presence from Iraq.__== 
=Negative= 
1) The 1AC attempts to fulfill a desire by “removing troops” however this enjoyment for desire will never be complete, and we are dissatisfied with the results we blame our inability to capture this lack on something else producing an endless fantasy to sustain order. (Glynos and Stavrakakis 08 <span style="font-weight: normal;">(Jason Glynos is a professor at the University of Essex, Yannis Stavrakakis professor at the Aristotle University at Thessaloniki, Greece. “Lacan and Political Subjectivity: Fantasy and enjoyment in psychoanalysis and political theory”)</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">**<span style="font-family: "Times","serif";">2) THE DISGUSTING USE OF LANGUAGE FROM THE AFF BY FILLING OUR MINDS WITH THREATS OF CATASTROPIES TO JUSTIFY PASSING THEIR PLAN DOES NOTHING MORE THAN STAND BEHIND WHAT FUELS BIOPOLITICS AND DOES NOT BREAK FROM THE STATUS QUO. THE ALLOWANCE OF THESE THREATS FORCES EVERYONE TO LIVE UNDER THE FEAR OF DEATH AND FORCES US INTO A LIFE NOT WORTH LIVING. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">**<span style="font-family: "Times","serif";">Zizek 2003</span>**<span style="font-family: "Times","serif";">, </span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">(Slavoj, Prof of Sociology @ Inst. For Sociology Ljjbljana Univ, __Welcome to the Desert of the Real!__, 94-99) </span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">3)</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">**<span style="font-family: "Times","serif";">THE STATE DOES NOTHING MORE THAN CREATE THIS FALSE SENSE OF LIFE, FANTASIES, TO HIDE THE FACT THAT WE ARE ALL UNSECURED AND SUFFER FROM THE LACK.</span>**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">**__<span style="font-family: "Times","serif";">EDKINS</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times","serif";"> – SR. LECTURER, INT'L POLITICS @ UNIV. OF WALES-ABERYSTWYTH – **__'3__** </span></span>
Jenny, “Security, cosmology, Copenhagen”, //Contemporary Politics//, v. 9, no. 4, ebsco

<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">4) </span><span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 20px;">The disorder at the source of our misunderstanding of enjoyment and the underlining discourse of fantasies construct the socio-political situation which constitutes the problem in the first place</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif";">Glynos</span></span>**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif";"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">and</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Stavrakakis 08</span>** (Jason Glynos is a professor at the University of Essex, Yannis Stavrakakis professor at the Aristotle University at Thessaloniki, Greece. “Lacan and Political Subjectivity: Fantasy and enjoyment in psychoanalysis and political theory”)</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">5) Reject the Aff and their mindset and embrace the Lack :)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">LOVE YOU :D</span>
==== ==== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]