[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

**EMORY 1AC**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The tragedy of 9/11 created a unique opportunity for discussion of vulnerability and interdependence. Instead, the US tried to reestablish American invincibility through an uncompromising war on terror </span>**
**Butler 8** (Judith, Professor of Rhetoric at UC Berkeley, http://mrzine.monthlyreview.org/2009/butler160509.html)
When the USA was attacked in September 2001...recognition of our interdependence.

**Nine years later, the war on terror has become the dominant political narrative in America. All aspects of life are routed through the securitizing lens of the war on terror. In this new system of politics all violence against those we deem threatening is justified and natural and critical or alternative discourse is rendered impossible**
**Jackson 5** (Richard, Lecturer in International Security @ The Center for International Politics at University of Manchester, __Writing the War on Terrorism: Language, Politics, and Counter-Terrorism__, Manchester University Press, Pg. Intro)
This book is about the public language of...a better world than this.

**This new form of politics divides life between those lives that we consider griebavle and those that we do not recognize as human. Challenging the frames by which we recognize life as un-real is a prerequisite to ending any form of material violence**
**Chambers 7**(Samuel A., Prof. of Political theory @ Johns Hopkins University, “Normative Violence after 9/11: Rereading the Politics of Gender Trouble,” //New Political Science//, Vol. 29, No. 1, Pg. 43-60) 
There is no agency of language...carrying out this essential analysis.

**The hyperbolic language of terrorism is a political construction. Privileging existential low risk security threats ignores structural violence and necessitates endless escalation of the War on Terror**
**Jackson 5** (Richard, Lecturer in International Security @ The Center for International Politics at University of Manchester, __Writing the War on Terrorism: Language, Politics, and Counter-Terrorism__, Manchester University Press, Chapter 4)
**<span style="font-weight: normal;">And, yet there is an inherent puzzle at work... resources unavaliable to them under normal circumstances.</span>**

**The end result of these dehumanizing discourses is uncontrollable violence. Constructing the US as the potential victim of catastrophe means we must always violently and preemptively respond to threats. This is the moral mathematics of Hiroshima**
**Jackson 5** (Richard, Lecturer in International Security @ The Center for International Politics at University of Manchester, __Writing the War on Terrorism: Language, Politics, and Counter-Terrorism__, Manchester University Press, Pg. Conclusion)
The simple but disturbing answer was...rather than a war //on// terrorism.

**Thus: The United States federal government should end its military and police presence in Iraq and Afghanistan.**

**The War on Terror may be global in its totalizing and all-encompassing discourse, but a specific and localized resistence of its most prominent fronts can effectively end the war**
**Adelman 9** (Rebecca A., Department of Comparative Studies @ Ohio State University, "The Shadow Rules of Engagement: Visual Practices, Citizen-Subjectivity, and America's Global War on Terror")
On September 18, 2001, Congress issued...and I study it accordingly.

**Demanding an end to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan challenges the war on terrorism globally**
**Bennis 9** (Phyllis, Writer for New Internationalism, "Contested Terrain**:** Obama's Iraq Withdrawal Plan and the Peace Movement")
Ending the war: a definition from the vantage point...to do to stop them both.

**By taking vulnerability as a starting point for politics, our rejection of the war on terror and its violent discourse facilitates the development of a more ethical politics**
**Butler 4** (Judith, Professor of Rhetoric at UC Berkeley, //Precarious Life//, pg. 28-31)
Mourning, fear, anxiety, rage...to nothing, or to brutality, or to no sustenance.

**Using debate as a unique pedagogical space is crucial to challenging violent US policy generally and creating a more just form of radical democratic politics**
**Giroux 5** (Henry A., Waterbury Chair of Secondary Education @ Pennsylvania State University, //Fast Capitalism//, "Cultural Studies in Dark Times: Public Pedagogy and the Challenge of Neoliberalism," http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/1_2/giroux.htm)
In opposition to these positions...pedagogical praxis, global protests, and collective resistance.

----
**2AC - AT: Economy Impact**

**Economics as a science fails - their predictions are useless**
**Bergmann 5** (Barbara, Professor Emerita of Economics at Maryland and American and trustee of the Economists for Peace and Security, July, "The Current State of Economics: Needs Lots of Work," Annals of the American Academy of POoitical and Social Science, Sage Publications, JSTOR)

More than two hundred years have passed...outcome of any controversy.


----
**2AC- AT: Word PIC**
**Language is fluid**
**Shapiro 98** (Professor of Political Science at the university of Hawaii, Michael J., Peace Review December 1998 Volume 10 Issue 4)
Of late, critical and polemical… both the individual and global society

**Punishing offensive language makes it worse**
**Roskoski and Peabody 91** (Mattew and Joe, “A Lingusitic and Philosophical Critique of Language ‘Arguments,’” [[http://debate.uvm.edu/Library/DebateTheoryLibrary/Roskoski&Peabody-LangCritiques]])
If language “arguments become a dominant trend… further dialogue can take place

**Exposure precedes exclusion. They kill the alt and prevent recognition of the pre-given state of vulnerability**
**Butler 97** (Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature UC Berkeley, Excitable Speech: A Politics of the Performative pg 38)
The story underscores the limits and risks… one whose future is partially open.
**﻿**
**The aff solves the impact**
**Kurtz and Oscarson 3** (Anna and Christopher, Members of National Council of Teachers of English Conference on College Composition and Communication, “BookTalk: Revising the Discourse of Hate”)
However, Butler also argues that the daily… interrogate terms like “queer”.

**Intentions injure, not words**
**Butler 4** (Judith Butler Reader pg 353
So, when we’re thinking about how iterability does it’s rhetorical work… miss the larger struggle at stake


----

**2AC- AT: Terrorism Impact**

**The War on Terror relies on flawed and violent assumptions and it iutterly fails in every one of its objectives**
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 19px;">**Jackson 05** (Richard, Lecturer in International Security @ The Center for International Politics at University of Manchester, __Writing the War on Terrorism: Language, Politics, and Counter-Terrorism__, Manchester University Press, Pg. Conclusion)</span>
A third danger is that the discursive straightjacket... no safer than it was before September 11, 2001

**The hyperbolic language of terrorism is a political construction. Privleging existential low risk impacts ignores structural violence and creates political paralysis**
Jackson 05 **(Richard, Lecturer in International Security @ The Center for International Politics at University of Manchester, __Writing the War on Terrorism: Language, Politics, and Counter-Terrorism__, Manchester University Press, Chapter 4)**
**<span style="font-weight: normal;">And, yet there is an inherent puzzle at work... resources unavaliable to them under normal circumstances.</span>**


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]

----
**CPGS DA**


<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: Times;">A. CPGS will be cut now due to fiscal pressure from overseas commitments.</span> </span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: Times;">National Defense Magazine 7/14</span></span> <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Lawrence P. Farrell Jr., 7/14/10, " 'Perfect Storm' for Defense Is Here, For Real This Time ", </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2010/August/Pages/PerfectStormforDefenseIsHere,ForRealThisTime.aspx]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">] </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; margin-left: 0in;">A confluence of processes and events is creating the conditions for <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">…</span></span> balanced force structure as basic criteria for future budgetary choices. </span>

B. Withdrawal Causes a Shift Towards CPGS. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: Times;">Diasaku</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, Sakaguchi, Research Fellow, 2nd Research Office, Research Department, the National Institute for Defense Studies, </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: Times;">09</span></span> <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(“The Realignment of U.S. Forces in Japan and its Impact on the Interdependent Relationship between Japan and the U.S.” NIDS Security Reports, No.10 December 2009, pp 40-41) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Times;">Accompanying the end of the Cold War, George F. Kennan …</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 11pt;"> bases forms a backdrop to this concept also.</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 7pt;">40 </span></span>

C. That causes accidental nuclear war between US and Russia. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: Times;">SF Chronicle</span></span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> 10/6/</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: Times;">06</span></span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Experts warn of an accidental atomic war, http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/c/a/2006/10/06/MNGF9LJSMM1.DTL) </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; text-decoration: none;">A</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> Pentagon </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; text-decoration: none;">project to modify</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> its deadliest </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; text-decoration: none;">nuclear missile for use … before deciding to launch</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> a nuclear strike on the United States.</span>

----
**Consult NATO**
**1NC**

NATO says yes – they want to leave
VOA 10 (9/1, “NATO Allies Want to Leave Afghanistan,”
[[@http://blogs.voanews.com/breaking-news/2010/09/01/nato-allies-want-to-leave-afghanistan/|http://blogs.voanews.com/ breaking-news/2010/09/01/nato- allies-want-to-leave- afghanistan/]])
NATO allies increasingly are voicing...would depend on conditions on
the ground.

Expanding Afghan forces gives NATO an excuse to leave
CBC News 10 (“NATO chief wants more Afghan troops trained,” June 10,
[[@http://www.cbc.ca/world/story/2010/06/10/nato-chief010.html|http://www.cbc.ca/world/story/ 2010/06/10/nato-chief010.html]])
NATO's secretary-general says the alliance...but NATO wants that
number to reach 300,000 by 2011.

Making a major strategic decision like the affirmative without
consulting kills the alliance
NATO Watch 10 (Think tank on NATO policymaking, July 2010, Observatory
no. 11, p.2)
The real issue in Afghanistan is not the Runaway...could easily prove
detrimental to the alliance.

Collapse of the alliance causes nuclear war
Brzezinski 09 - former U.S. National Security Adviser, professor at
the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins
University. (September/October 2009 Zbigniew, Foreign Affairs, An
Agenda for NATO,
[[@http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/65240/zbigniew-brzezinski/an-agenda-for-nato|http://www.foreignaffairs.com/ articles/65240/zbigniew- brzezinski/an-agenda-for-nato]])
Visible on the horizon but not as powerful...overwhelmingly a U.S.
responsibility.

**Say Yes**
Silence procedure means the secretary-general can always get his way
Wallander, senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies, 03 [Celeste, “Institutional Assets and Adaptability: NATO
After the Cold War,”
[[@http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=1&fid=164732&jid=&volumeId=&issueId=04&aid=164731&bodyId=&membershipNumber=&societyETOCSession=|http://journals.cambridge.org/ action/displayFulltext?type=1& fid=164732&jid=&volumeId=& issueId=04&aid=164731&bodyId=& membershipNumber=& societyETOCSession=]]]
When asked why its members were able to turn to NATO...to new
post–Cold War security problems.

Kabul Conference proves they want to leave
Christian Science Monitor 10 (7-19 “Kabul Conference: NATO withdrawal
from Afghanistan by 2014?”,
[[@http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-South-Central/2010/0719/Kabul-Conference-NATO-withdrawal-from-Afghanistan-by-2014|http://www.csmonitor.com/ World/Asia-South-Central/2010/ 0719/Kabul-Conference-NATO- withdrawal-from-Afghanistan- by-2014]])
Tuesday’s Kabul conference may hint at...real progress in that area is
being made.”