[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

(sorry about the text size, i was having issues. email me if you have questions: sam.hamad92@gmail.com)

== == 
I affirm: States ought not possess nuclear weapons. 

The affirmative can advocate the state abolition of nuclear weapons, but does not have to defend implementation of this policy. This is true for a few reasons, 
<span style="color: black;">1) Regardless of definition, "Ought" is a modal, auxiliary verb. </span>
2) The only for me to evaluate the consequences of an action is if I am guaranteed a world where states don’t possess nuclear weapons. 
3) Nations that currently possess nuclear weapons are very different in their structures, obligations and motives. 

Ought implies moral obligation. Because ‘ought’ has a strictly positive connotation, ie there is a moral obligation to do something, ‘ought not’ means that there is no moral obligation. 

The affirmative, then, can prove the resolution true in two ways: Either a) by proving that states have no moral obligations or b) by proving that states have a moral obligation to not possess nuclear weapons.
The obligations of states aren’t defined by morals. George Kennan explains: 

<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">[Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton; __Morality and Foreign Policy;__ //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Foreign Affairs;</span>// 1986]</span>

“Certain distinctions should be made before....needs no moral justification, nor need it accept any moral…”



Whether ought is a moral obligation or desirability, the best policy option is one that evaluates consequences. James Wood Bailey explains, ` 
Bailey, James Wood (Lecturer in Politics, Princeton University) “Utilitarianism, Institutions, and Justice” Page 9. Oxford University Press. 1997


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">A consequentialist moral theory can... </span>**dismiss them with moral sophistries or to ignore them as if we lived in an ideal world**.**


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, we decide which action is better based on the affect it has on human beings. A policy that decreases suffering is the best policy. Jamie Mayerfeld describes,</span>
Jamie Mayerfeld, Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Washington. Suffering and Moral Responsibility, Oxford Press. 1999. ISBN 0195154959, 9780195154955
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">We have a prima facie duty to relieve suffering...</span>**suffering cries out for its own abolition or cancellation. 

Therefore the standard is the reduction of human suffering. 

My advocacy is that states ought not possess nuclear weapons because of the threat they pose to millions of lives. 

Contention 1 is the links to nuclear terrorism. 

A. States that have nuclear weapons do not have a strong hold of their stockpiles. Frankie Sturn writes, 
Sturn, Frankie (Fellow with the Truman National Security Project). “Nuclear Weapons: A New Paradigm for the 21st Century.” Backgrounder. July 30, 2009


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Six nuclear warheads went missing ...__</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__have the motive, the ambition, and potentially the means to go nuclear.__</span>**</span>

B. Nuclear material can be smuggled by terrorists. Wolfsthal , 
Wolfsthal, Jon B. (writer for Foreign Affairs). “The Next Nuclear Wave.” Foreign Affairs. January/February 2005. <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/60452/jon-b-wolfsthal/the-next-nuclear-wave?page=show]]</span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The bad news__</span>**, as Allison lays out in great detail,...**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> __enough to communicate the gravity of the threat.__ </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">C) **The networks used to manage nuclear weapons are highly susceptible to cyber-terrorism.**</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Blair 08 </span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">(</span>**<span style="color: black;">Bruce, President of the World Security Institute and former Minuteman launch officer, February 27, “Increasing Warning and Decision Time (‘De-Alerting’)”</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> http://disarmament.nrpa.no/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/Paper_Blair.pdf)</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; text-autospace: none;">"There are a host of reasons why removing the hair-trigger on their missiles is an urgent priority. ...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">0.8 percent, and the ten-year probability would be 8 percent.4"</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 2 is the impacts.</span>
Nuclear terrorism causes extinction. Sid-Ahmed 
Sid-Ahmed (Weekly Political Analyst) “Al Ahram Weekly” 2004 http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm


**__"What would be the consequences of a nuclear attack by terrorists?__** <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">....</span> **__When nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers."__**


Finally, when there exists a potential threat to the human race, we must take efforts to stop them, no matter how unrealistic they may be. Schell, 
Schell, Jonathan (Nuclear war author and guest speaker at Emory, Princeton and Yale) “Reader: On the United States at War, The Long Crisis of the American Republic, and the Fate of the Earth.” Pages 88-89. 2004


"But it is clear that at present, with some twenty thousand megatons of nuclear ... that of life itself." 

<span style="color: black;">1) Magnitude trumps probability </span>
<span style="color: black;"> 2) Probability only matters in light of magnitude.</span>

Modified AFF:

I DO NOT READ: "Ought implies moral obligation. Because ‘ought’ has a strictly positive connotation, ie there is a moral obligation to do something, ‘ought not’ means that there is no moral obligation.

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The affirmative, then, can prove the resolution true in two ways: Either a) by proving that states have no moral obligations or b) by proving that states have a moral obligation to not possess nuclear weapons.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The obligations of states aren’t defined by morals. George Kennan explains:</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">[Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton; __Morality and Foreign Policy;__ //Foreign Affairs;// 1986]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“Certain distinctions should be made before....needs no moral justification, nor need it accept any moral…” "</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">ADD: <span style="border-collapse: collapse; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The affirmative is guaranteed that states will not possess nuclear weapons, but the negative can still run disadvantages to my method of disarmament. This is true for a few reasons,</span></span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: black; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">1) Regardless of definition, "Ought" is a modal, auxiliary verb. </span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> 2) The only for me to evaluate the consequences of an action is if I am guaranteed a world where states don’t possess nuclear weapons.</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> 3) Nations that currently possess nuclear weapons are very different in their structures, obligations and motives. </span>


<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; line-height: 19px; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">States will pit stuff their nukes. Wuwen writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; line-height: 19px; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Pit stuffing makes weapons unusable</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: small; line-height: 19px;"><span style="margin: 0px;"> Wuwen 4 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Zhao, Paper for Center for International Security Studies at Maryland, September 2004, “Promoting Nuclear Warhead Reductions: Regimes, Approaches, and Technologies”)</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">"For military inability of nuclear warheads, particularly to nuclear components of primary.....</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 15px;"> still remain open for consideration and research."</span></span>




**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">A) Russia and the United States are armed to fire at any time. Their nuclear hold is highly susceptible to accidental launch</span>**
<span style="line-height: normal;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Phillips & Starr 06 </span></span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman";">(</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman";">Change ‘Launch on Warning’ Policy”, Alan Phillips is a retired physicist and physician who did radar research for the British army. Steven Starr is a medical technologist trained in nuclear engineering, http://archive.peacemagazine.org/v22n3p14.htm)</span></span>

<span style="line-height: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman";">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 115%; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">"As long as the U</span>__</span>**<span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">nited</span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 115%; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__S__</span>**</span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">tates</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 115%; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;"> __and Russia.......__</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 115%; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">This is inexcusably dangerous."</span>__</span>**</span></span></span>


<span style="color: black; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Alyn Ware. Health and Environmental Effects of the Production and Testing of Nuclear Weapons;NuclearFiles.org;Coordinator of the Parliamentary Network for Nuclear Disarmament, a project of the Middle Powers Initiative. . 2008. http://www.nuclearfiles.org/menu/key-issues/nuclear-weapons/issues/effects/effects-of-nuclear-weapons.html</span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 9.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">Radiation from nuclear weapons has killed at least 13 million people. </span>

<span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA; mso-fareast-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">"Jimmy's story is one of hundreds of thousands.....</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">prohibited and recognized as crimes against humanity"</span></span>




<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 17px; line-height: 25px;">**Negative**</span>


I negate: States ought not possess nuclear weapons.

I negate the resolution, resolved: States ought not possess nuclear weapons.

The word ought implies evaluating action through various considerations to ultimately find the absolute best thing to do. Ralph Wedgwood writes, 

<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;"> Conceptual Role Semantics for Moral TermsAuthor(s): Ralph WedgwoodSource: The Philosophical Review, Vol. 110, No. 1 (Jan., 2001), pp. 1-30Published by: </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">Duke University Press </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">on behalf of </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">Philosophical Review</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Stable URL: </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">http://www.jstor.org/stable/2693596</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Accessed: 25/08/2010 01:09</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">"As I understand it then, the question 'What is the best thing for me to do?' ...</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">what we have most reason to do', rather than 'best'." </span>

<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">In the context of a debate round the debaters take the roll of the advisor. If a world where states don’t possess nuclear weapons is the best option, you negate. </span>

Evaluating the consequences of an action is the best way to determine whether or not it is the best option. Walter Armstrong writes,


<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">An Argument for Consequentialism Author(s): Walter Sinnott-Armstrong Source: Philosophical Perspectives, Vol. 6, Ethics (1992), pp. 399-421 Published by: Ridgeview Publishing Company Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2214254 Accessed: 06/07/2010 00:26</span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__"A moral reason to do an act is consequential__</span>** ...All such reasons are consequential reasons."

All of the harms associated with nuclear weapons have consequences in one form or another. The majority of literature on this topic discusses the benefits and harms of states possessing nukes. Thus, when decided whether they should or not, we ought to evaluate the ends. 

The standard is minimizing suffering. Jamie Mayerfield explains the importance of reducing suffering,
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Jamie Mayerfeld, Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Washington. Suffering and Moral Responsibility, Oxford Press. 1999. ISBN 0195154959, 9780195154955 </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__"We have a prima facie duty to relieve suffering...s__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__uffering cries out for its own abolition or cancellation__</span>**."

Contention 1- states ought to possess nuclear weapons, because they deter the development and use of biological warfare. 

<span style="mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; text-indent: -.25in;"><span style="mso-list: Ignore;">A) </span>Getting rid of nuclear weapons will only give countries an incentive to build something worse. The problem is the urge to engage conflict, not the weapon. Futterman explains, </span>

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Futterman 94</span></span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;"> – J.A.H. Flutterman, MD, Physicist @ Lawrence Livermore Laboratory, “Meditations on the Morality of Nuclear Weapons Work,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.dogchurch.org/scriptorium/nuke.html</span></span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">"But if war is humanity's heroin, nuclear weaponry is its methadone</span>__</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;"> ...</span><span style="font-size: 7px; line-height: 9px;">...</span>__**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Nations will, whether or not you take away their nuclear weapons</span>__</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">." </span>__


More specifically, nuclear weapons deter the use of bioweapons, which would have worse implications. Tertrais writes, 
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Tertrais, Bruno (senior research fellow at the Fondation pour la Recherche Strategique in Paris, France, and is a member of the editorial board of The Washington Quarterly.) “The Illogic of Zero” The Washington Quarterly, April 2010. 33:2 pp. 125 138 </span>


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__"Nuclear weapons have__</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__also limited .....__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The answer is likely to be no__</span>**."

And, biological weapons are much more severe than nuclear weapons. Ochs,
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Ochs, 2</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;"> [Richard, BS in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University, with honors, BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE IMMEDIATELY ABOLISHED, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html </span>


<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> __biological weapons...__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues?</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.__ </span>**


==DETERRENCE NC:== 

(SAME FW AS ABOVE)


**<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Prolif decreases the risk of full-scale war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;"> **Asal and Beardsley, 7** </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Victor Asal, PoliSci Prof New York U. Kyle Beardsley, PoliSci Prof Emory U.</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;"> Journal of Peace Research, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-style: italic;">Vol. 44, No. 2, 2007. </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">“Proliferation and International Crisis Behavior.” Online.) </span>

<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">"As Model 1 in Table IV illustrates, all of our variables are .....</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">nuclear powers involved in the conflict increases."</span>__</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Our impacts outweigh probability and magnitude 40 to 1</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;"> De mesquite and Riker, 82.</span>** <span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">(Bruce Bueno de Mesquita, PoliSci Prof @ Rochester U. The Journal of Conflict Resolution, Vol. 26, No. 2, June 1982. “An Assessment of the Merits of Selective Nuclear Proliferation”)</span>


<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">One might object further. Conceding that the....**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__by yielding a higher expected loss of life__</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. </span>


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative==