[[toc]]
Aff - [[mailto:trajwani@gmail.com|trajwani@gmail.com]]
Neg - [[mailto:humzatariq@yahoo.com|humzatariq@yahoo.com]]

=Affirmative= 

==Counternarcotics @ TFA State== 

<span class="Underline">Text: the United States Drug Enforcement Administration should withdraw its personnel engaged in counternarcotics operations in Afghanistan. </span>

Contention 1: Heroin Trade
Status quo emphasizes aggressive policies to stop poppy cultivation– trades off with other pillars of the US counternarcotics strategy that can eliminate the drug trade.
<span style="background-color: aqua;">Glaze, 2k7.</span> <span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">(John A. Glaze</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;">lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force, is Deputy Commander of the 353rd Special Operations Group at Kadena Air Base, Japan. He previously held positions as Commander of the 67th Special Operations Service (SOS) of the Royal Air Force in Mindenhall, Great Britain; Operations Officer of the 9th SOS at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida; Chairman of the Special Airlift Branch of the Joint Countermine Operation Simulation at Ft. Bragg, North Carolina; Air Force Institute of Technology at Ft. Dix, New Jersey; Standards/Evaluations Flight CC/Chairman of Safety of 550th SOS/58 Special Operations Wing at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico; and C– 130 E Adverse Weather Aerial Delivery System Navigator of the 40th Airlift Squadron at Pope Air Force Base, North Carolina. Lieutenant Colonel Glaze holds a B.S. in business administration from the University of Arizona, Tucson; an M.A. in management from Webster University, Albuquerque, New Mexico; an M.A. in military arts and sciences from Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama; an M.A. in strategic studies from the U.S. Army War College, Carlisle Barracks, PA; and a master’s degree in logistics from the Air Force Institute of Technology, Ft. Dix, New Jersey,</span> <span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">“Opium and Afghanistan: Reassessing U.S. Counternarcotics Strategy” Strategic Studies Institute, 10/2007, Online [FH])</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">The <span style="background-color: aqua;">security</span> situation <span style="background-color: aqua;">in</span> …<span style="background-color: aqua;"> an ineffective counternarcotics program. </span></span></span>

**Aggressive counternarcotics efforts only increase overall trafficking revenue – makes heroin market stability inevitable**
**<span style="background-color: aqua;">Caulkins et al, 2k10</span>** <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jonathan Caulkins, Professor in Operations Research and Public Policy @ Carnehie Mellon, Former director of RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center, Mark Kleiman. Professor of Public Policy and Director of Drug Policy Analysis Program @ UCLA. Jonathan Kulick, Advisor for State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration, Former Director of Studies @ Georgian Foundation for Strategic & International Studies, “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June 2010, Online [FH])</span></span>
**__In addition to the “horizontal” … revenues and <span style="background-color: aqua;">profits. </span>__**

**A natural fungus wiped out half the opium poppies this year – we only have to win 50 percent solvency to collapse cultivation – failure to act this year will allow for irreversible expansion of the heroin trade.**
**<span style="background-color: aqua;">Volkov, January 20</span>**. (Andrey Volkov, Epoch Times Staff Writer, “Afghan Opium Production Drops, But Income Soars” 2011, Online [FH])
<span style="color: black;">Afghan opium **__<span style="background-color: aqua;">poppy </span>…__** in a statement. </span>

<span class="Underline">Afghan opiates cause a systemic impact of one hundred thousand deaths annually and creates conditions for war – turns your disads – it will be the lifeline of the international heroin trade for years.</span>
<span class="Underline"> <span style="background-color: aqua;">BBC, 2k9</span> **(“Afghan opium fuels 'global chaos'” 10/21/09, Online)**</span>
<span class="Underline"> <span style="background-color: aqua;">Afghanistan</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has a …</span>** more <span style="background-color: aqua;">years </span>to come. </span>

Scenario 1: Algae Blooms
Poppy cultivation causes them
<span style="background-color: aqua;">Trade and Environment Database, 97.</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Trade and Environment Database, Case Study: “Colombia Coca Trade.” The Mandala Project, Conceived by Professor Jim Lee of American University. Online. [KC])</span></span>
**__<span style="background-color: aqua; color: black;">Pollution is</span>__****__<span style="color: black;"> also … and restricts water flow.</span>__**

Algae Blooms drains atmospheric oxygen – kills every living creature.
<span style="background-color: aqua;">ScienceDaily, 2k8.</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Science Daily: “Harmful Algae Takes Advantage of Global Warming: More Algae Blooms Expected” 4–7–08. Online. [KC])</span></span>
**__<span style="color: black;">Fish and other <span style="background-color: aqua;">... the cockroaches.</span> </span>__**

Algae blooms destroy oceans
**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Cole, 2k8</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>** (Sally Cole, expert Saltspring Island resident. “World's oceans could become "soupy swill": expert Saltspring Island resident Sally Cole got home from a sailing trip in August looking forward to a hot shower. But when she turned on her taps, all she got was slime” September 13, 2008. Online [FH])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Millions of tonnes …</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua;"> we have nothing left.”</span>__**

Oceanic Collapse Causes Extinction
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Craig, 2k3</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">. </span><span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Robin Kundis Craig, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law. Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii, McGeorge Law Review. Winter, 2003) </span></span>
<span class="ToReadChar1">The world's <span style="background-color: aqua;">oceans </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> intact to future generations. </span>

<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Algal blooms collapse biodiversity</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">EPA, 2k9</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Environmental Protection Agency, “Polllution” 12/28/09, Online [FH])</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In addition to …</span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">paralytic shellfish poisoning. </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">That takes out all defense – ecosystems can only recover and maintain resiliency if they are biodiverse</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Wilson, 2k2.</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Edward O. Wilson, Harvard Professor– Museum of Comparative Zoology, 2002, The Future of Life, p. 109)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; color: black;">Ecosystems are kept </span><span style="color: black;">…</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">forest vegetation still more. </span>

<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Extinction Rate Outweighs Resiliency</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Rosenweig 2k1.</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Michael L. Rosenzweig, Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, 2001, PNAS, Volume 98, No. 10, May 8, p. 5404 [EBSCO])</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Accidents that eradicate …</span><span class="ToReadChar1"><span style="background-color: aqua;"> with the losses.</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Killer Algae Bloom Theory is Peer Reviewed and Scientifically Accepted </span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Blumenthal, 2k9</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">. </span><span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Les Blumenthal, writes for McClatchy's Washington state newspapers, has been a working journalist for 19 years, specializes in major environmental issues. “Toxic Algae Could be the Next Big Threat” 12/18/09. Found @ oceanicdefense.org. Online [FH])</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"That's exactly what we …</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua;"> acceptance among scientists. </span>__**

**Scenario 2: Russian Mafia**
**Heroin is traded for nuclear warheads sold internationally by the Russian mafia**
**<span style="background-color: aqua;">Majalla et al, 2k1</span>** (Al-Majalla, Al-Watan al-Arabi and Al-Wasat, Middle Eastern news sources, “Bin Laden's Nuclear Weapons” 12/27/01, Online [FH])
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Al-Watan al-Arabi …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> during the 80’s and 90’s. </span>

**Groups that receive nuclear weapons from the Russian Mafia are the ONLY nuclear threats – makes nuclear use inevitable and causes extinction**
**<span style="background-color: aqua;">Power, 97</span>** (Jonathan Power, staff writer for the Baltimore Sun, “Threat of the Russian nuclear mafia” 10/14/97, Online [FH])
**__The real issue in terms …since Hiroshima and Nagasaki__**

**Only independent groups will use nuclear weapons – nation-states have a nuclear taboo.**
**<span style="background-color: aqua;">Perkovich, 2k9 </span>**(George Perkovich, vice president for studies and director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the International Institute for Strategic Studies. “Extended Deterrence on the Way to a Nuclear-Free World” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, May 2009, Online [FH])
**__The underlying difficulty__**, … **__against Taiwan first.__**

Independent group use of a nuclear weapon shatters the taboo – turns your nuclear war scenarios
<span style="background-color: aqua;">Gusterson, 2k7</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Hugh Gusterson, professor of anthropology and sociology at George Mason University, expertise in nuclear culture, “Nuclear terrorism: Correcting the future” 6/4/07, Online [FH])</span></span>
We already know **__… <span style="background-color: aqua;">with nuclear weapons</span>__**<span style="background-color: aqua;">? </span>

**Scenario 3: Balkan Instability**
**Heroin trade finances conflicts and instability in the Balkans.**
**<span style="background-color: aqua; color: black;">Chossudovsky, 99</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Michel., Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa. “The KLA: Gangsters, Terrorists and the CIA.” Online. [KC]) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">Heralded by the global media as a humanitarian peace– keeping mission, NATO's ruthless bombing of Belgrade and Pristina goes far beyond the breach of international law. While Slobodan Milosevic is demonized, portrayed as a remorseless dictator, the Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) is upheld as a self– respecting nationalist movement struggling for the rights of ethnic Albanians. The truth of the matter is that the KLA is sustained by organized crime with the tacit approval of the United States and its allies. …<span class="Underline"> as a result of the bombings. </span></span>

**<span style="color: black;">Causes global war – Balkans are a flashpoint </span>**
**<span style="background-color: aqua; color: black;">Paris, 2k2</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Roland, Assistant Professor of Political Science and International Affairs at University of Colorado, Political Science Quarterly, “Kosovo and the metaphor war”, Volume 117, Issue 3, Fall, Proquest)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">At this early stage … before it is too late. </span>

**Balkans have the highest probability war scenario because it’s an ethnic conflict – ceasefires fail**
**<span style="background-color: aqua;">Stefanova, 2k3 </span>**<span style="background-color: aqua;">(</span>Radoslava Stefanova, officer at NATO's Political Affairs and Security Policy Division, Lecturer in International Relations at the American University of Rome, Ph.D. candidate at the European University Institute, “ New Security Challenges in the Balkans” 2003 34: 169 Security Dialogue, Online [FH])
**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">Ethnic wars </span>…Macedonia and Kosovo.__**

**Contention 2: Solvency**
**Withdrawal key to use other strategies – only way to transition away from drug production and collapse the trade.**
**<span style="background-color: aqua; color: black;">McCoy, 2k10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Alfred W. McCoy, J.R.W. Smail Professor of History at the University of Wisconsin– Madison. He is the author of The Politics of Heroin: CIA Complicity in the Global Drug Trade, staff writer for CBS News, “Can Anyone Pacify An Opium State?” CBS News, 3/31/10, Online [FH]) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">With its forces now …</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="color: black;"> ruined in decades of war.</span>**</span>

**Withdrawal is the only way to destabilize the heroin market.**
**<span style="background-color: aqua;">Caulkins et al, 2k10</span>** <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jonathan Caulkins, Professor in Operations Research and Public Policy @ Carnehie Mellon, Former director of RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center, Mark Kleiman. Professor of Public Policy and Director of Drug Policy Analysis Program @ UCLA. Jonathan Kulick, Advisor for State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration, Former Director of Studies @ Georgian Foundation for Strategic & International Studies, “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June 2010, Online [FH])</span></span>
While **__anticorruption efforts …__****__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">than law enforcement agencies. </span>__**

**<span style="color: black;">ANY strategy utilizing troop presence will fuel the drug trade and undermine successful strategies.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: aqua; color: black;">Carpenter, 2k4</span>** <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, is the author or editor of 16 books on international affairs, “How the Drug War in Afghanistan Undermines America’s War on Terror” CATO Institute, 11/10/04, Online [FH]) </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">That is especially true of the …</span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; color: black;">areas to drug cultivation. </span></span>

**<span style="color: black;">The changes in counternarcotics pushing for interdiction made the problem worse.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: aqua; color: black;">Beyerstein, 2k9 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">(Lindsay Beyerstein, award-winning investigative journalist based in Brooklyn, NY. Her reporting has appeared in Salon, Slate, The New York Press, In These Times, AlterNet, and other publications. She was the recipient of a 2009 Project Censored Award. , “Afghan drug war: Interdiction to replace crop eradication” 7/31/09, Online [FH])</span>
<span style="color: black;"> U.S. envoy …**__<span style="background-color: aqua;"> for a drug market? </span>__**</span>

<span class="Underline">The changes in counternarcotics policy still require us to end aggressive policies for success. </span>
**<span style="background-color: aqua;">Brown, 2k10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Vanda Felbab-Brown, Adjunct Professor in the Security Studies Program at the School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University and a Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution. Specializing in issues of conflict and national security, she received her Ph.D. in political science from MIT and her B.A. in government from Harvard University. “Shooting up: Counterinsurgency and the War on Drugs” The Brookings Institution, 2010, Online [FH])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Bans on poppy cultivation and </span>**__…__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> many years to reach its goals. </span>

<span class="Underline"> Withdrawal is a prerequisite to other approaches succeeding </span>
**<span style="background-color: aqua;">Brown, 2k10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Vanda Felbab-Brown, Adjunct Professor in the Security Studies Program at the School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University and a Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution. Specializing in issues of conflict and national security, she received her Ph.D. in political science from MIT and her B.A. in government from Harvard University. “Shooting up: Counterinsurgency and the War on Drugs” The Brookings Institution, 2010, Online [FH]) </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To varying degrees, …</span>****<span style="font-size: 5pt;">implications of the analysis. </span>**</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Legalization Fails </span>**
**<span style="background-color: aqua; color: black;">Green, 2k7 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Eric Green, USINFO staff writer, “United States Opposes Legalizing Opium Poppy Crop in Afghanistan”, 06/05/07, Online [FH]) </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; color: black;">Legalizing</span><span style="color: black;"> the <span style="background-color: aqua;">opium </span>…</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;"> will” to attack the problem. </span>

**DEA has jurisdiction and is the linchpin of international counternarcotics efforts.**
**<span style="background-color: aqua;">DEA, 2k5</span>** (“International Training” Last Date Cited in Article is August 21, 2005, Online [FH])
**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">The DEA</span>__** International Training Section (TRI) **__…__**, and judicial reforms.
==BMD @ University of Texas== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">TEXT: THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SHOULD DISCONTINUE ITS MISSILE DEFENSE MILITARY PRESENCE IN JAPAN. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 1 is Inherency:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">US and Japan Are Accelerating Cooperation on Joint Missile Defense Development</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**DID, November 2.** (Defense Industry Daily. “Japan’s Fleet BMD Upgrades,” 11/2/10. Online. [TR])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">JMSDF is working closely … completion of the program… </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**The Paragraph Ends with “…” – JMSDF Stands for Japanese Maritime Self Defense Forces**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 2 is Space:</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Missile Defense Cooperation Allows Increased Spending in Space Military Development – It’s a Key Component of Research</span>
Kawasaki, 10. **(Akira Kawasaki, Member of Executive Committee of Peace Boat, Peace Education Prof @ Global U, Northeast Asia Regional Secretariat of Global Partnership for Prevention of Armed Conflict (GPPAC). “Japan’s Military Spending at a Crossroad,” 5/10/10. Online @ Foreign Policy in Focus. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> BMD and Space Development The … “space development” in the 2009 defense budget.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Space Tech Funding is Intrinsic to funding for Missile Defense Development</span>
Kawasaki, 10. **(Akira Kawasaki, Member of Executive Committee of Peace Boat, Peace Education Prof @ Global U, Northeast Asia Regional Secretariat of Global Partnership for Prevention of Armed Conflict (GPPAC). “Japan’s Military Spending at a Crossroad,” 5/10/10. Online @ Foreign Policy in Focus. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The breakdown of equipment purchases … missile defense (BMD) system.</span>**


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The Japanese Constitution Was Amended to Specifically Allow Militarization of Space through Missile Defense Capabilities</span>
Aoki, 2k8. **(Tetsuko Aoki, Policy Prof @ Keio U, Japan, Specialized in International Law and Space Law. “Japan enters a new space age,” 7/8/08. Online @ Asia Times. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The 1967 Outer Space Treaty …to enhance BMD capabilities. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Scenario 1: Anti–Satellite Warfare </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Joint Development with Japan Spurs an Arms Race to Militarize Space – Causes Space Warfare and Accidental Launches – Risks Extinction</span>
Mitchell, 2k1. **(Gordon Mitchell, Assistant Professor of Communication and Director of Debate @ Pittsburgh U, member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region. “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous,” Winter 2001. Online. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Any clear-cut distinction between offensive…of such systems to “normal accidents.”</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Specifically, China Will Respond by Deploying Anti Satellite Technology Unless US ends Missile Defense Build Up</span>
Blazejewski, 2k8. **(Kenneth S. Blazejewski, Masters in Public Affairs @ Princeton U, JD Degree @ New York School of Law, Private Practitioner In New York City Focusing on Int’l Corporate and Financial Transactions. “Space Weaponization and US-China Relations,” Spring 2008. Online @ Strategic Studies Quarterly. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> First, if the United States proceeds … first space weapons program.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Chinese ASAT Deployment Causes Space War</span>
Martel & Yoshira, 2k3. **(William C. and Toshi, Prof of Natl Security at Naval War Collage in RI 2003, doctoral candidate at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, and a research fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis in Massachusett. "The Washington Quarterly." 2003. Autumn Vol. 26 No. 4. Online.)**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> During the next decade or so, the PRC … depend on satellites for their economic well-being.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> This Outweighs – Retaliation Is Inclusive of Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Warfare – Causes Extinction</span>
Ayotte et al, 2k1. **(Gordon R Associate Professor, Communication, University of Pittsburgh, with Kevin J. and David Cram. "ISIS Briefing Paper On Ballistic Missile Defence," ISIUK. 6/6/01. Online.)**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> It is chilling to contemplate the …most destructive military conflict ever.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Scenario 2: Strategic Defense Initiative</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Joint Cooperation with Japan Revives the Strategic Defense Initiative Research and Development Program</span>
Mitchell, 2k1. **(Gordon Mitchell, Assistant Professor of Communication and Director of Debate @ Pittsburgh U, member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region. “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous,” Winter 2001. Online. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Official announcements of the … exported to Japanese public spheres.</span>**


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Specifically, Continued Japanese Cooperation is Key to Star Wars Missile Defense</span>
Fink, 2k8. **(Kelly There Fink, Masters Degree in Asian Studies @ Seton Hall U. “Japan’s Evolving Military: East Asia, the United States, and the International System,” 5/7/08. Online.)**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Much of the focus on … missile defense, a significant increase from years before.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> SDI Development Will Create Lasers that Exceed Cosmic Energy</span>
Leslie, 96. **Philosophy Professor, Guelph Univerity, 96.**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> <John, The End of The World: The Science and Ethics of Human Extinction pg 113-114></span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Among the sources of electromagnetic … made them radiate at the higher frequencies.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> These Energies Will Disturb the Vacuum</span>
Leslie**, Philosophy Professor, Guelph Univerity,** 96.
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> <John, The End of The World: The Science and Ethics of Human Extinction pg 109></span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> How could anything as empty … ‘pose a threat to our vacuum’.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Vacuum Destabilization Destroys the Universe.</span>
Leslie**, Philosophy Professor, Guelph Univerity,** 96.
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> <John, The End of The World: The Science and Ethics of Human Extinction pg 110></span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> As Hut and Rees commented…gravitational collapse in ‘microseconds or less’ .</span>**


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> No Turns – Militarization Increases Space Debris – Prevents All Space Exploration and Usage</span>
Wright, 2k7. **(David Wright, Physicist, co director the Union of Concerned Scientists' (UCS) Global Security Program. “Space debris from antisatellite weapons,” 10/1/07. Online. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> To preserve the long-term use … international negotiations dealing with such weapons.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Contention 3 is China:</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> China is on the Verge of Modernization – Prefers Limited Deterrence – But Continued BMD Development Assures Chinese Militarization</span>
Lewis, 2k9. **(Jeffrey Lewis, Ph.D. in Policy Studies (International Security and Economic Policy) @ Maryland U, Director of the Nuclear Strategy and Nonproliferation Initiative @ New America Foundation. “CHINESE NUCLEAR POSTURE AND FORCE MODERNIZATION,” Hansell & Potter, Eds. Center for Nonproliferation Studies, March 2009. Online. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Historically, China has maintained …compatible with notions of nuclear zero.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Specifically, Continued Joint Research and Development Causes a Regional Arms Race</span>
Kawasaki, 10. **(Akira Kawasaki, Member of Executive Committee of Peace Boat, Peace Education Prof @ Global U, Northeast Asia Regional Secretariat of Global Partnership for Prevention of Armed Conflict (GPPAC). “Japan’s Military Spending at a Crossroad,” 5/10/10. Online @ Foreign Policy in Focus. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Japanese and U.S. development … and promote their withdrawal. </span>**


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> BMD Development Deteriorate US-Sino Relations – Risks Interference With Taiwan and Greater Militarization</span>
Johnson-Freese & Nichols, 10. **(Joan Johnson-Freese, Prof and Chair of National Security Making Department @ US Naval War College. Thomas Nichols, National Security Affairs Prof @ US Naval War College, Fellow in the International Security Program and the Project on Managing the Atom @ Harvard University. “Space, Stability and Nuclear Strategy: Rethinking Missile Defense,” 2010. China Security, Vol. 6, No. 2. Online @ World Security Institute. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Perhaps the more important … to provide real security.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Scenario 1: Nanowarfare</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> China Will Develop Nano Weapons to Counteract the United States</span>
Navrozov, 2k7. **(Lev Navrozov, the winner of the Albert Einstein Prize for outstanding intellectual achievements, and more than twenty of his articles are in the United States Congressional Record. He is also president of the nonprofit Center for the Survival of Western Democracies, “Nanotech and Sun Tzu: China's secret weapons?”, Sept 3, 2007. Online.)**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> In 1945, the ultimate super weapon … change, and govern a territory of a world.</span>**


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Nanowarfare Outweighs Nuclear War, Causes Proliferation, and Destroys the Biosphere</span>
Treder and Phoenix, 2k8. **(Mike Treder, Executive Director of CRN, BS Biology, University of Washington, Research Fellow with the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies, a consultant to the Millennium Project of the American Council for the United Nations University AND Chris Phoenix, CRN’s Director of Research, has studied nanotechnology for more than 15 years. BS, Symbolic Systems, MS, Computer Science, Stanford University. Center For Responsible Nanotechnology, “Dangers of Molecular Manufacturing,” Last Updated Feb 7, 2008. Online.)**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> New products and lifestyles may cause … Competing nanotech programs increase the danger.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Scenario 2: Information Warfare</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> China is Modernizing its Information Technology Sector to Gain a Lead in Cyber Warfare </span>
Fritz, 2k8. **(Jason Fritz, PhD in Electrical Engineering @ Colorado U. “HOW CHINA WILL USE CYBER WARFARE TO LEAPFROG IN MILITARY COMPETITIVENESS,”Culture Mandala, Vol. 8, No. 1, October 2008, pp.28-80. Online. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> China’s 2006 white paper on national … conditions of informationization” (China's National Defense 2006).</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Now is Key Timeframe – China Has Developed Impenetrable Defenses in Preparation of a Cyber War with the US </span>
Gertz, 2k9. **(Bill Gertz, Geopolitics Editor and National Security Investigative Reporter @ Washington Times, Recognized by FBI. “China blocks U.S. from cyber warfare,” 5/12/09. Online. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> China has developed more … traced to attacks that penetrated Pentagon computers. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Cyber Warfare causes accidental nuclear war</span>
Cimbala, 1999. **(Stephen Cimbala, professor of political science at the Pennsylvania State University Delaware County Campus. “Armed Forces & Society: An Interdisciplinary Journal.” Summer 1999. )**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The nuclear shadow over … could have unfortunate byproducts.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The US Will Retaliate and Spark World War 3</span>
USA Today, 2k2. **(USA Today: Tech: “Cyberattack Could Result in Military Response.” Online. [KevC])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> WASHINGTON (AP) — The United States …infrastructure systems already have been penetrated."</span>**


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Independently, Even if They Win that Chinese Modernization is Inevitable – The Plan is Key to Keep it in Check and Create a Mutual Trust Doctrine between the US and China</span>
Lewis, 2k9. **(Jeffrey Lewis, Ph.D. in Policy Studies (International Security and Economic Policy) @ Maryland U, Director of the Nuclear Strategy and Nonproliferation Initiative @ New America Foundation. “CHINESE NUCLEAR POSTURE AND FORCE MODERNIZATION,” Hansell & Potter, Eds. Center for Nonproliferation Studies, March 2009. Online.)**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> China’s strategic modernization … the possibility of accidents, miscalculations, or misunderstandings. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Contention 4 is Solvency: </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Now is Key Timeframe – Japanese Security Policy is at a Cross Road – Plan Will set a Precedent in Japan – Continued Cooperation Assures a Focus on Militarized Security </span>
Kawasaki, 10. **(Akira Kawasaki, Member of Executive Committee of Peace Boat, Peace Education Prof @ Global U, Northeast Asia Regional Secretariat of Global Partnership for Prevention of Armed Conflict (GPPAC). “Japan’s Military Spending at a Crossroad,” 5/10/10. Online @ Foreign Policy in Focus. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> It is not easy to predict Japan’s … other than developing intercepting missiles?</span>**


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Joint Cooperation With Japan is Key to Continued Missile Defense Research and Development</span>
Butler, 2k7. **(Jeffrey Butler, Lieutenant Colonel of USAF, College of Aerospace Doctrine, Research and Education @ Air U. “ The Influence of Politics, Technology, and Asia on the Future of US Missile Defense,” August 2008. Online @ The Walker Papers. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Japan and the United States began … success of the US missile defense program.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Specifically, US BMD Presence is a Pre Requisite to Japanese Independent Missile Defense</span>
Toki, 2k8. **(Masako, project manager in the Nonproliferation Education Program at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, where she studies Japan's nonproliferation and disarmament policy, “Under Fukuda, Japan Accelerates Ballistic Missile Defense Cooperation with the United States”, February, http://www.wmdinsights.com/I22/I22_EA5_JapanAcceleratesBMD.htm, AV)**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The successful December 2007 … the Japanese government to retain Washington’s trust.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Department of Defense has Jurisdiction through the Missile Defense Agency – Maintains Oversight and Budgeting</span>
IDA, 2k8. **(Institute for Defense Analyses, a non-profit corporation that operates three federally funded research and development centers to provide objective analyses of national security issues.“Study on the Mission, Roles, and Structure of the Missile Defense Agency (MDA),” August 2008. Online. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> For external DoD oversight … in developing, fielding, and supporting the BMDS.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Previously Note, Your Disads are Non Unique – </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> First – Obama Cut Missile Defense Spending by 44 Percent</span>
Examiner, 10. **(Washington Examiner. “James Jay Carafano: More excuses for missile defense cuts,” 10/10/10. Online. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> President Obama has systematically … House cut missile protectors by a total of 44 percent.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Second – Defense Cuts Inevitable in Status Quo</span>
Financial Times, 10. **(“Initial salvo fired in effort to reduce defence costs,” 11/11/10. Online. [TR])**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> High-profile equipment … the Pentagon would be fired__.__</span>**


==Okinawa @ University of Texas== 
**Tanweer and I have not read this aff, however, this was read by other Dulles teams at UT - if you have any questions or such, you should still email Tanweer at the email above, sorry for any confusion. -Humza**

**Text: the United States federal government should remove its marine presence from the Okinawa prefecture in Japan with the exception of the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit.**
**Contention 1 is US-Japan Bilateralism**
**Military reductions in Japan are inevitable by 2020 – this makes a primarily US dominated alliance unsustainable – military reductions now are key to develop a more bilateral alliance.**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nye, 2k7. </span><span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">(Joseph Nye, University Distinguished Service Professor and Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations at Harvard University, “Getting Asia Right Through 2020” 2/2007, Online [FH])</span></span>
<span class="ToReadChar1"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The best structure for Asia rests on sustained U.S. strength, commitment, and leadership in the region</span></span><span class="CiteBodyCardChar1">**…** for global policies (actions for the United States and Japan to pursue with countries and/or regions outside of Asia and with respect to global/functional issues).</span>
**The Okinawan governor election has created gridlock on the Futenma Base dispute which is killing the US-Japan alliance – removing the base is critical to transition away from a US dominated alliance – that’s is key to preserve the alliance and prevent Japan-China tensions over territorial disputes in the East China Sea from escalating.**
**Japan Today, November 29.** (“No breakthrough on base transfer expected after Okinawa election” 2010, Online [FH])
With incumbent Gov. Hirokazu Nakaima winning Sunday’s Okinawa gubernatorial poll, …to shoulder more burdens and unwelcome bases abroad could be subjects of streamlining in the long term.’’
**Japan-China territorial disputes in the East China Sea escalate to East Asian war absent a firm alliance commitment – now is key timeframe – tensions are at a boiling point.**
**Cheng, September 24.** (Dean Cheng, Research Fellow, Asian Studies Center “China–Japan Confrontation at Sea: Senkaku Islands Issue Won’t Go Away” 9/24/10, Online [FH])
This should be a routine matter—even in a region where sovereignty is in dispute. Yet the incident has approached crisis levels …should give all concerned—here, in Japan, and in the broader East Asian region—pause.

**East Asian war goes nuclear and outweighs on probability.**
**<span style="color: black;">Landay, 2k</span>.** (Jonathan S. Landay, national security and intelligence correspondent. “Top Administration Officials Warn Stakes for U.S. Are High in Asian Conflicts,” 3–10–2000. Knight Ridder)
Few if any experts think China and Taiwan, North Korea and South Korea…U.S. firms and millions of American jobs depend on trade with Asia that totaled $600 billion last year, according to the Commerce Department.

**US-Japan Bilateralism is key to solve many impacts and outweighs your disad.**
**Glosserman et al, 2k8.** <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1">(Brad, Executive Director, Pacific Forum CSIS, expertise include: Nonproliferation and export controls, U.S.-Japan relations, East Asian security and foreign policy, Asia, Katsu, Senior Research Associate, Monterey Institute for International Studies, spoke on Japan, A New U.S.-Japan Agenda Vol. 8-No.4, March 2008, http://www.csis.org/media/csis/pubs/issuesinsights_v08n04.pdf, accessed: 6/26/08, pg v)</span>
<span class="ToReadChar1"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The U.S.-Japan relationship remains central to regional and global security</span></span>**…**<span class="ToReadChar1"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">on dual use technology and “soft know-how; - global health, including building capacity in developing countries.</span></span>
**Contention 2 is Guam**
**The new governor election has not changed the relocation plans for Futenma – 8,000 Marines get relocated to Guam in the status quo.**
**AP, November 28**. (Associated Press, “Okinawa election result to test US-Japan relations” 2010, Online [FH])
Hirokazu Nakaima's return to office Sunday will likely make it difficult for Tokyo to quickly move forward a planned relocation …8,000 U.S. Marines off Okinawa to the U.S. Pacific island of Guam, on condition a replacement facility is built in another part of Okinawa.
**Marine relocation to Guam crushes deep sea ecosystems – Guam is a biodiversity hotspot**
**Iltis, 2k10.** (Tony Iltis, staff writer for Green Left, “Guam: New US military build-up opposed” Green Left, 3/16/10, Online [FH])
It states: “The military build-up will permanently change our island and our lives. The needs of all Guam’s people must come first, for this island is our home. It is critical that President Obama hear our concerns.” The planned build-up in Guam … Unlike Guam, Tinian has not had a previous military presence and has a pristine and spectacularly diverse ecosystem.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deep sea ecosystems key to global biodiversity and oxygen production – both are currently on the brink – biodiversity hotspots are key</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">UNEP, ‘6. </span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">( The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the World Conservation Union (IUCN) have a long and successful history in working with states and stakeholders on marine and ocean issues, “Ecosystems and Biodiversity in Deep Waters and High Seas” UNEP, 2006, Online [FH])</span>
We live in an age of ocean discovery. Advances in science and technology are unveiling secrets and shattering myths about the oceans that are changing the way we view life on Earth. There is an urgent need to apply these new insights to manage human activities to protect, restore and maintain ocean … Activities that generate long-lasting pollution, alter climate, disrupt oceanic circulation regimes and acidify ocean waters have to be addressed, while we still can.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Oxygen crisis causes extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tatchell, 2k8.</span>** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Peter Tatchell, staff writer for the Guardian, UK, “The oxygen crisis” 8/13/08, Online [FH])</span>
Compared to prehistoric times, the level of oxygen in the earth's atmosphere has … which could further diminish global fish supplies.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Biodiversity Checks Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Montague, ‘95.</span>** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Peter Montague, “The Four Horsemen—Part 2: Loss of Biodiversity,” Rachel’s Environment & Health News, December 14, 1995, http://www.rachel.org/bulletin/bulletin.cfm?Issue_ID=651.)</span>
Extinctions are dangerous for humans, but it is not immediately clear just how dangerous. In their 1984 book, EXTINCTION, Paul and Anne …dark abyss. In the process, we desecrate the wondrous works of the creator.
**Contention 3 is Japanese Politics**
**Japanese Prime Minister Kan is pushing for increased trade liberalization which is critical to Japan’s economy – the measure currently won’t pass because Kan is unpopular**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hayashi 11-8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ( Yuka Hayashi, Frequent writer for the wall street journal specializing in the Asia, “Kan Launches Japan Free-Trade Push”, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704580304575600140779130402.html]], Accessed November 26, 2010 [KS])</span>
<span class="Underline">TOKYO—Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan is hoping to …as much as $40 billion a year. The agriculture ministry, meanwhile, says the economy would actually shrink, reflecting sharp output declines in the farm sector.</span>
**Removing Futenma Restores Kan’s Popularity**
**A Subpoint – It was a key election platform**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clausen, 2k10</span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt;">. </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Daniel </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Clausen,</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> PhD Candidate FIU The Future of Japanese Defense Politics. “ Exploring Japanese Defense Futures Through the Alternative Scenario Approach” 6-20-2010. Online. [sk]) </span>
What does the DPJ's 'independent' foreign policy refer to? Easley et al (2010) argue that this is code for a policy that is less deferential to the US. In particular, the authors argue that the …<span class="ToReadChar1"><span style="font-weight: normal;">maintaining the support of the SDP</span></span>**'s** help in the upper house of the Diet

**B Subpoint – Public dislike of Kan stems from the Futenma issue**
UPI, 2k10<span style="font-size: 11pt;">. </span><span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(UPI News. “Japans PM Kan Apologizes to Okinawa” 6-23-2010. Online. [sk])</span></span>
Japanese Prime Minister Naoto <span class="ToReadChar1"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Kan apologized to the people of Okinawa Wednesday for bearing the bulk of the United States military …due to noise and crimes involving U.S. servicemen.</span></span>

**C Subpoint – Allows Kan to form coalitions with other parties and control the upper house which allows him to pass his agenda.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klinger, 2k10.</span>** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Bruce Klingner, a senior research fellow for Northeast Asia at the Heritage Foundation's Asian Studies Center. “More Political Stalemate For Japan” 7/15/10. Found online @ Asia Times. [sk])]</span>
Kan already faces internal party calls for his resignation but that is unlikely before the DPJ presidential election caucus in September. Working in Kan's favor will be the party's hesitancy to … Japanese political combatants will continue to inflict considerable damage on each other, as well as the country's hopes of economic revival or international influence.
**Japanese economic growth key to world economy – DPJ party and trade liberalization key**
**Japan Digest, 2k4** (Sept. 2004 p. google cache)
An increasing number of Japanese and foreign observers believe that the only long-term solution …, American students can learn much about an important country and about economics from Japan's successes and failures
**<span style="color: black;">Global economic collapse causes nuclear war and extinction</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Bearden, 2k</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Thomas Bearden, Director of the Distinguished American Scientists (ADAS), 2000)</span>
History bears out that desperate nations take desperate actions. Prior to the final economic collapse, the stress on nations will have increased … civilization as we know it, and perhaps most of the biosphere, at least for many decades.
**Contention 4 is Solvency**

**Reducing Marine Presence Preserves Support for relations and Keeps Kadena In-Tact**
**O’Hanlon, 2k1**
(Michael, Director of Research & Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at Brookings, Director of Research for the 21st Centry Defense Initiative, 1“Military Readiness & Overseas Commitments,” Defense Policy Choices for the Bush Administration, 2001-2005)
Not only is the continuous … in the region's stability. P. 54-55
**No deterrence disads – plan is a prerequisite to preserving other bases**
**<span class="TagAuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gerson ’10. </span></span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[Joseph, Director of the Peace and Economic Security Program for AFSC, “American Continuities: Obama’s Asian and Nuclear Weapons Policies”, Jun. 20, (http://afsc.org/story/joseph-gersons-main-speech-thirdchinaus-civil-society-peace-forum-changzhou-china-june-20) 6.24.10] </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">It is in this context that </span><span class="ToReadChar1"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">the Obama Administration …</span></span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> Beijing are leading to calls in Washington for a “comprehensive review” of Obama’s “China strategy and policy from top to bottom.”[6]</span>
**<span class="Underline">Advancements in military technology will fill in for any deterrence if the US withdraws Marine bases from Japan.</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Daisaku, ‘7.** </span><span class="CiteBodyCardChar1">(Sakaguchi Daisaku, Research Fellow, 2nd Research Office, Research Department, the National Institute for Defense Studies (NIDS); Lieutenant Colonel, JGSDF, “The Realignment of U.S. Forces in Japan and its Impact on the Interdependent Relationship between Japan and the U.S.” 2007, Online [FH])</span>
<span class="CiteBodyCardChar1">Going forward</span><span class="Underline">, </span><span class="ToReadChar1"><span style="font-weight: normal;">progress in military technology is likely to become an alternative means for compensating for the withdrawal of bases. The “sea basing” being pursued by the Navy and Marine Corps</span></span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1">is one … diplomatic cooperation among a large number of countries has become essential. An emphasis on allied nations is stipulated even in the QDR 2006, and as this shows, the support of allied</span>
**Military bases being shut down now due to inflation**
**St. Petersburg Times, ‘9** <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(9/25/09, "HANNITY SAYS OBAMA IS "CUTTING BACK ON DEFENSE"", lexis)</span></span>
And [[@http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/us/lnacademic/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T7812633749&returnToId=20_T7812633752&csi=11063&A=0.902953996505971&sourceCSI=9369&indexTerm=%23PE000A0BO%23&searchTerm=President%20Obama%20&indexType=P|President Obama ]]has proposed that the base budget will continue to rise in absolute dollars through 2014, though by smaller percentages. For fiscal year 2011, it rises by 1.5 percent; for fiscal year … amounts to a cut even though [[@http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/us/lnacademic/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T7812633749&returnToId=20_T7812633752&csi=11063&A=0.902953996505971&sourceCSI=9369&indexTerm=%23PE000A0BO%23&searchTerm=Obama%20&indexType=P|Obama ]]is still increasing spending on a year-to-year basis.
**Defense Cuts Inevitable**
**St. Petersburg Times, ‘9.** <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(9/25/09, "HANNITY SAYS OBAMA IS "CUTTING BACK ON DEFENSE"", lexis)</span></span>
<span class="verdana">The administration has said it would cut such programs …they represent a reshuffling of priorities.</span>

==__**Futenma @ Greenhill**__== 
__**PLAN: THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SHOULD SHUT DOWN THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS AIR STATION FUTENMA IN JAPAN.**__

__**Contention _ is Bilateralism**__

__**US-Japan negotiations over the Futenma US Marine Corp base in Japan have continued with the US pushing to simply move Futenma further north and the Japanese demanding for closure of the base – this undermines US-Japan relations – it’s the linchpin**__
__**Talmadge, ‘9.** (Eric Talmadge, staff writer for the Associated Press, “Futenma dispute strains ties with Japan” AP, 12/29/09, Online [FH])__
__When the U.S. took ……that it is closed soon.”__

__**Current Agreement Fails – Japan Will Uphold Okinawa’s Wishes – Oppose Futenma Relocation**__
__**Asahi News, 8/5.** (The Asahi Shimbun. “Editorial: Futenma relocation plan,” 8/5/10. Online. [TR])__
__Kan says his Cabinet is …… them softening their stand.__

__**US military reductions inevitable by 2020 – means now is key timeframe to develop bilateral relations with Japan – the linchpin of these relations is the security alliance between the two nations – reducing forces is key to bilateralism – this spurs Japan to rearm it’s military.**__
__**Nye, ‘7**. (Joseph Nye, University Distinguished Service Professor and Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations at Harvard University, “Getting Asia Right Through 2020” 2/2007, Online [FH])__
__The best structure ……with respect to global/functional issues).__

__**Japanese Rearm is key to check Chinese invasion of Taiwan and Korean War.**__
__**Neeno, ‘6.** (Timothy, “USA-Asia: Japan Resurgent”, [[http://europeancourier.org/JapanResurgent.htm]] )__
__Could Japan become a …… such an attack less likely.__

__**Chinese invasion of Taiwan causes nuclear extinction.**__
__**The Straits Times, 2k**. (Singapore) June 25, 2000 )__
__The Doomsday Scenario ……sovereignty above everything else.__

__**Korean War causes extinction and outweighs on timeframe**__
__**Taylor, 2k**. (William J. Taylor, Jr., (Senior Advisor for Intl Security Affairs at CSIS), February 17, 2K, THE KOREA HERALD, l/n)__
__The near-term strategy of ……worst-case scenarios.__

__**US-Japan Bilateralism checks extinction – it solves all impacts**__
__**Glosserman et al, ‘8**. (Brad, Executive Director, Pacific Forum CSIS, expertise include: Nonproliferation and export controls, U.S.-Japan relations, East Asian security and foreign policy, Asia, Katsu, Senior Research Associate, Monterey Institute for International Studies, spoke on Japan, A New U.S.-Japan Agenda Vol. 8-No.4, March 2008, [[http://www.csis.org/media/csis/pubs/issuesinsights_v08n04.pdf]], accessed: 6/26/08, pg v)__
__The U.S.-Japan relationship ……in developing countries.__

__**Withdrawal is inevitable – Relations Aren’t – Plan is key for a positive US image with the Japanese public and reverse alliance decline**__
__**Gerson ’10.** [Joseph, Director of the Peace and Economic Security Program for AFSC, “American Continuities:__
__Obama’s Asian and Nuclear Weapons Policies”, Jun. 20, ([[http://afsc.org/story/joseph-gersons-main-speech-thirdchina-]]__
__us-civil-society-peace-forum-changzhou-china-june-20) 6.24.10]__
__It is in this context that the ……strategy and policy from top to bottom.”[6]__

__**Contention _ is Guam:**__

__**Guam is stable now but current plans for Futenma relocation overwhelm Guam with massive population increases crushing infrastructure**__
__**Manthopre, ‘10.** (Jonathon Manthorpe, staff writer for the Vancouver Sun, “Strained U.S.-Japan relations threaten to overwhelm tiny Guam” 3/29/10, Online [FH])__
__But Guam is at the …… than is already on the cards.__

__**Increased military relocation in Guam collapses deep sea ecosystems – Guam is a biodiversity hotspot**__
__**Iltis, ‘10.** (Tony Iltis, staff writer for Green Left, “Guam: New US military build-up opposed” Green Left, 3/16/10, Online [FH])__
__It states: “The military ……spectacularly diverse ecosystem.__

__**Deep sea ecosystems key to global biodiversity and oxygen production – both are currently on the brink – biodiversity hotspots are key**__
__**UNEP, ‘6**. ( The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the World Conservation Union (IUCN) have a long and successful history in working with states and stakeholders on marine and ocean issues, “Ecosystems and Biodiversity in Deep Waters and High Seas” UNEP, 2006, Online [FH])__
__We live in an age ……be addressed, while we still can.__

__**Oxygen crisis causes extinction**__
__**Tatchell, ‘8.** (Peter Tatchell, staff writer for the Guardian, UK, “The oxygen crisis” 8/13/08, Online [FH])__
__Compared to prehistoric times…… further diminish global fish supplies.__

__**Biodiversity Checks Extinction**__
__**Montague, ‘95**. (Peter Montague, “The Four Horsemen—Part 2: Loss of Biodiversity,” Rachel’s Environment & Health News, December 14, 1995, [[http://www.rachel.org/bulletin/bulletin.cfm?Issue_ID=651]].)__
__Extinctions are dangerous …… wondrous works of the creator.__

__**Contention _ is Solvency**__

__**Department of Defense key – only government agency with jurisdiction and experience with base closure**__
__**England, ‘5**. (Gordon England, Secretary of the US Navy, “DOD Base Closure and Realignment__
__Report to the Commission” DON, May 2005, Online [FH])__
__Infrastructure Executive Council. The ……Secretary of Defense’s approval__

__**No budget issues – Congress already established the Force Structure Plan that funds and regulates DOD military reductions**__
__**England, ‘5**. (Gordon England, Secretary of the US Navy, “DOD Base Closure and Realignment Report to the Commission” DON, May 2005, Online [FH])__
__The DoD, through the Joint …… depicted in Chapter 2 above.__

__**Only DOD has jurisdiction through the Force Structure Plan**__
__**England, ‘5.** (Gordon England, Secretary of the US Navy, “DOD Base Closure and Realignment Report to the Commission” DON, May 2005, Online [FH])__
__The Defense Base Closure ……FY 2005 to FY 2024__

__**No disads – Advancements in military technology will fill in for any deterrence if the US withdraws Marine bases from Japan.**__
__**Daisaku, ‘7**. (Sakaguchi Daisaku, Research Fellow, 2nd Research Office, Research Department, the National Institute for Defense Studies (NIDS); Lieutenant Colonel, JGSDF, “The Realignment of U.S. Forces in Japan and its Impact on the Interdependent Relationship between Japan and the U.S.” 2007, Online [FH])__
__Going forward, progress in military……shows, the support of allied__

__**Military bases being shut down now due to inflation**__
__**St. Petersburg Times, ‘9** (9/25/09, "HANNITY SAYS OBAMA IS "CUTTING BACK ON DEFENSE"", lexis)__
__And President Obama has ……a year-to-year basis.__

__**Defense Cuts Inevitable**__
__**St. Petersburg Times, ‘9**. (9/25/09, "HANNITY SAYS OBAMA IS "CUTTING BACK ON DEFENSE"", lexis)__
__The administration has ……reshuffling of priorities.__




===__Japanese Economy Adv @ Greenhill Dubs__=== 
__Contention _ is the Japanese Politics:__

__**Kan has tax incentives on his agenda – key to Japanese economic growth**__
__**Thai News Agency, September 9.** (" Japan to decide on corporate tax cut by year-end ", 9/9/10, Online [FH])__
__Prime Minister Naoto Kan … at around 25-35 percent.__

__**The Status Quo will Ensure Kan remains Unpopular – Hatoyama proves.**__
__**Kageyama, ‘10.** (Yuri Kageyama, AP Business Writer for Newswire Magazine. “Japan leader apologizes over US base on Okinawa” May 22, 2010. Online. [sk])__
__The people of Okinawa … close to that time.__

__**Wins for Kan – specifically the plan – will allow coalitions to form with parties like the “Your Party” which allows Kan’s agenda to get passed because he’ll control the upper house.**__
__**Klinger 7/15**. (Bruce Klingner, a senior research fellow for Northeast Asia at the Heritage Foundation's Asian Studies Center. “More Political Stalemate For Japan” 7/15/10. Found online @ Asia Times. [sk])]__
__Kan already faces internal party …revival or international influence.__

__**Asian economic collapse goes global – Japan is the linchpin**__
__**Friedman, 98.** (International Herald Tribune, “Asia’s Economic Engine Now ‘Pulling Backward’ : Japan Reaps Blame as Crisis Grows” 05/28/98, Online [FH])__
__From Manila to Moscow … a critical turning point."__

__**Nuclear War**__
__**Klare, ‘9.** (Michael Klare, Prof. Peace and World Security Studies @ Hampshire College Five College, Pin Hills News, “Economic Crash Will Fuel Social Unrest”, 2 – 25 – 09 , Online)__
__The global economic meltdown …, Latin America, and Central Asia.__




===__2AC: Consult Japan CP__=== 
__<span class="Underline">Say Yes Flows Aff – Consultation Already Happened </span>__
__**<span class="Underline">Japan Update, 2k10.</span>**<span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (“Japan waffling on making Futenma decisions?” 7/22/10. Online. [TR])</span></span>__
__<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Defense Minister</span>...<span style="font-size: 11pt;">methods, by late August.</span></span>__

__**Continued Consultation on Futenma Causes Stalemate – Prevents Consultation on Other Issues – Plan Key to Solve Net Benefit**__
__**Tatsumi, 2k10.** <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Yuki Tatsumi, Staff Writer @ ISN Security Watch. “Political Instability in Japan and it’s Implications for the US-Japan Alliance,” 7/28/10. Online. [TR])</span></span>__
__However, **the political ...** to Japan in November.__


__**Consultation is Normal Means**__
__**Japan Today, 10** <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Japan Today, Japanese News Network, “Hatoyama says he'll start from scratch on Futenma relocation plan” 1/26/10, Online [FH])</span></span>__
__Prime Minister Yukio ...<span class="ToReadChar1"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> Tokyo on the issue.</span></span>__




=__Negative__= 

==__Riders DA__== 
__<span style="font-size: 90%;">Unique Link – Cyber Security bill won’t pass on its own – plan is a key vehicle for a rider</span>__
__**Chabrow, August 25.** (Eric Chabrow, Executive Editor @ Gov Info Security, a leading website that covers government cybersecurity, “Infosec Provisions Seen as Rider to Senate Defense Bill” Online [FH])__
__<span style="font-size: 90%;"> The Senate is considering . . . makes a lot of sense."</span>__

__**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Impact – Cyber Security Kills Democracy </span>**__
__**Washington Times, 2k9.** (THE WASHINGTON TIMES. "Free speech includes talking trash". 10/12/09. Online. [TR])__
__<span style="font-size: 90%;">(This Article is No Longer Online So Full Text is Provided)</span>__
__<span class="BoldAndUnderlineChar">The Internet stands as one of the last uncensored avenues for information exchange </span>("America's Internet police," Editorial, Friday). Though there are many problems associated with uncontrolled flow of information, why <span class="BoldAndUnderlineChar">can't we let Americans decide for themselves what is garbage and what is legitimate just as they do with junk mail? Americans' right to be informed and speak out should take precedence over the efforts by some in our government to prevent this free flow of information. In that spirit, Americans should do everything in their legal power to make certain that the Cybersecurity Act of 2009</span>, sponsored by Sen. John D. Rockefeller IV, West Virginia Democrat, <span class="BoldAndUnderlineChar">never passes. That would be the death knell to our nation's democracy. A true democracy functions only when all of its citizens are properly informed and debate freely in whatever venue they choose.</span>__

__**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Extinction.</span>**__
__**Diamond, 95.** (Larry Diamond, Senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University. “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and Instruments, Issues and Imperatives,” December 1995. Online.)__
__<span style="font-size: 90%;">Nuclear, chemical, and biological . . . prosperity can be built."</span>__




==<span style="font-size: 90%;">__Security K__ </span>== 
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The affirmative’s identification of threats combines security with politics and produces a politics in which the state justifies the worst forms of violence and genocide in the name of upholding a population – their apocalyptic rhetoric cedes the power of violence to the state – turns their impacts. </span>__
__**Campbell,1998.** David Campbell, professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle. Writing Security, 1998. (199 – 202)__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Security and subjectivity are intrinsically linked, even in conven­tional understandings. Traditional discourses of international relations maintain … "the state" is "the mobile effect of a multiple regime of governmentality," of which the practices of police, —— and foreign policy/Foreign Policy are all a part. </span>__

__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative as an act of eschewing the logic of security – we must transition into emancipatory politics – affirming insecurity is key to preventing the ceding of genocidal power to the state.</span>**__
__**Neocleous, 2k8** (Mark Neocleous, 08, “Critique of Security”, Brunel University in the Department of Government)__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, is perhaps to eschew the logic of security altogether — to reject it …’securitizing’ an issue does not mean dealing with it politically but bracketing it out and handing it to the state; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift.“’</span>__


==__Nietzsche K__== 

===__Security 1NC__=== 
__**The affirmative is an example of the sad resentment inherent to security logic – they believe they should correct existence by delaying an impending impact – this precludes affirmation of life and negates its value altogether.**__
__**Der Derian, 1998** [JAMES, WATSON INSTITUTE RESEARCH PROFESSOR OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES AT BROWN UNIVERSITY, “THE VALUES OF SECURITY: HOBBES, MARX, NIETZSCHE, AND BAUDRILLARD”, JSTOR]__
__Nietzsche transvalues both Hobbes's and Marx's interpretations of security through a genealogy of modes of being. His … one thus recognizes a debt that constantly grows greater, since these forebears never cease, in their continued existence as powerful spirits, to accord the tribe new advantages and new strength.__

[[#_Toc278385941]][[#_Toc278382404]]
__**The affirmative's need to solve the world's problems is emblematic of the Socratic drive to resolve life's inevitable chaos. Through the plan they can "correct existence," molding the apparent world of chaos into the perfect image produced by their resentment.**__
__<span class="Bodytext4">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Saurette</span>**</span><span class="Bodytext4105pt">**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> 1996</span>**</span> <span class="Bodytext6SmallCaps">[Paul,</span> "I<span class="Bodytext6SmallCaps"> mistrust all systemizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory, Journal of International Studies vol.</span> 25 N<span class="Bodytext685pt">o.</span> 1 ] According to Nietzsche, the philosophical foundation of a society is the set of ideas which give it meaning to the phenomenon of human existence within a given cultural framework. As one manifestation of <span class="Bodytext6"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the Will to Power, this will to meaning ...to the ascetic truth of the real world as Nietzsche suggests.</span></span>__


__**The affirmative prevents nuclear war, and blinks. The greatest danger is not death or extinction, but the suicidal nihilism fostered by the all-too-careful utilitarianism of the Last Man.**__
__**Owen and Ridley, 2K** [David, assistant director of the Centre for Post-Analytic Philosophy at the University of Southampton, Aaron, senior lecture and associate director of the Centre for Post-Analytic Philosophy at the University of Southampton, “Dramatis Personae,” in //Why Nietzsche Still?// ed. Alan Schrift, pp. 149- 1 5 1 ]__
__The modern condition offers both a threat and a promise. Nietzsche …makes his destruction //desirable" (BGE// 225).__

__**The alternative is to vote negative to embrace the Status Quo – acceptance of the necessity of the existing world is also acceptance of the** **inevitability of chaos and chance – we must submit ourselves to the one dice-roll of the Status Quo rather than resentfully trying to control the dice through claims to predictions and causality – this means rejecting the affirmative.**__
__**Deleuze, 1986** (Gilles, French philosopher, “Nietzsche and Philosophy,” Columbia UP, p. 25‐7)__
__The game has two moments which are those of a dicethrow — the dice that is thrown and the dice that falls back. Nietzsche presents the dicethrow as taking place on two distinct tables, the earth and the sky. The earth where the dice are thrown and the sky where the dice fall back…not the return of a combination by the number of throws, but the repetition of a dicethrow by the nature of the fatally obtained number.__


===__Suffering 1NC__=== 
__<!--[if gte mso 10]>__
__**Life is pain – the affirmative's fixation with ending suffering negates life. Instead of deluding ourselves with dreams of escaping the inevitability of suffering followed by a meaningless death, we should embrace this suffering as a testing and show of strength.**__
__**Kain,** <span class="Bodytext77pt">professor of philosophy at Santa Clara, 20</span>**07** [Philip J., "Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence,"<span class="BodytextItalic"> Journal of Nietzsche Studies 33 (2007),</span> 49-63]__
__At the center of Nietzsche's vision lies his concept of the "terror and horror of existence" (BT 3). As he puts it in The Birth of Tragedy: There is an ancient story that King Midas hunted in the forest a long time for the wise Silenus, the companion of Dionysus. . . . When Silenus at last fell into his hands, the king asked what was the best and most desirable of all things for man. Fixed … for Nietzsche, <span class="Bodytext">we cannot eliminate suffering; we can only seek to mask it</span>.__

__**The affirmative is a nihilist embracing of a false vision of reality – they are a mask on the suffering and antagonism that are inevitable to life – molding reality and not accepting this inevitability that characterizes life destroys any meaning that we have to life.**__
__**Scott, 90** (Charles E., professor of Philosophy at Pennsylvania State University, “The Question of Ethics: Nietzsche, Foucault, Heidegger,” Ed. John Sallis, p. 173-174)__
__One pathogenic aspect of our Western ethos that we have followed is the ascetic ideal. It is characterized by many types of refusal and denial …not to be redeemed, not to be overcome, it is juxtaposed to a will to live, an affirmation with, and not in spite of, the chaos.__

__**Alternative:**__
__**Affirm the status quo. Embracing the inevitability of suffering allows us to overcome the nihilism of the aff's ascetic ideal. This confrontation with the inevitability of suffering strengthens us and makes us capable of non-resentful modes of relating to others.**__
__<span class="Bodytext4105pt">**Thiele '90**</span> [Leslie, Professor of Political Science at the University of Florida, "<span class="Bodytext2">Friedrich Nietzsche and the Politics of the Soul: A Study of Heroic Individualism</span>" , pg 198-201]__
__Nietzsche's atheism did not spell the end of his attachment to the idea of love of fate. With God out of the way, man comes into his own. What cannot be controlled can be interpreted creatively.<span class="Bodytext4105pt"> The sign of a higher morality …</span><span class="Bodytext7"> reference to a future, nor the past by reference to the present</span>"<span class="Bodytext77pt"> (WP 377).</span> <span class="Bodytext7">Living, like loving, must be its own reward.</span>__


==__Naval Riders DA__== 
__**<span class="Underline">The Navy is attempting to buy littoral combat ships – status quo means Navy will have to pick a shipyard to buy from but they are advocating a proposal to purchase from 2 different shipyards – they will only get permission for their proposal if Congress passes a bill to allow it – Congress will pass that legislation as a rider to the plan </span>**__
__**<span class="Underline">Drew, November 5. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher Drew, staff writer NYT, “To Capitalize on Low Bids, Navy Hopes to Name 2 Winners for Ship Contract” 2010, Online [FH]) </span></span>**__
__**<span class="Underline">The Navy has …contract for 10 ships. </span>**__

__**<span class="Underline">Awarding the Navy a 2 bid contract cuts off Bath Iron Works from future bidding for ship contracts – this prevents the development of Coast Guard cutters </span>**__
__**<span class="Underline">Sharp, November 9<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (David Sharp, AP Staff writer, “Senator: Navy LCS plan hurts Bath shipyard bid” 2010, Online [FH]) </span></span>**__
__**<span class="Underline">A Navy proposal …<span style="font-size: 8pt;">possibly the smaller Navy ships. </span> </span>**__

__**Coast Guard cutters key to guard against terrorism in ports.**__
__**Lipton, 2k6<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Eric Lipton, staff writer NYT, Pulitzer Prize Winner, “Billions Later, Plan to Remake The Coast Guard Fleet Stumbles” 12/19/06, NYT, Online [FH]) </span>**__
__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>problems have<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span> saving money over the long run.**__

__**Terrorist attack at a port kills the global economy in 3 weeks.**__
__**Flynn 2k3<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Stephen, Natl Sec Studies, “The Fragile state of container security,” testimony before the senate, March 20 [[http://www.cfr.org/publication.html?id=5730]] </span>**__
__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A year later I joined …</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> up international trade</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**__
[[#_Toc277631042]]
__**<span style="color: black;">Global Nuclear War </span>**__
__**<span style="color: black;">Bearden , 2k</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Thomas Bearden, Director of the Distinguished American Scientists (ADAS), 2000) </span>__
<span style="color: black;">**History bears … for many decades**</span>**__****<span style="color: black;">. </span>**

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Afghanistan Minerals DA </span>== 
**A. Uniqueness – Recent mineral discoveries will lead to Afghanistan dominating mining industry – abundance of rare minerals.**
**CBS News, 2k10** (CBS News, online news source, “U.S.: Afghanistan Sitting On $1T in Minerals” CBS News, 6-14-2010, Online [HT])
(AP) A team of U.S. geologists and Pentagon officials has discovered vast mineral wealth in Afghanistan, conceivably enough to turn the scarred and impoverished country into one of the world's most lucrative mining centers… how close the deposit is to power sources and other infrastructure and the size of the deposit.

<span class="cite">B. Link – US military presence deters foreign mining takeovers – reductions invite foreign mining. </span>
<span class="cite">Poonawalla, 2k10</span> (Aziz Poonawalla, Postdoctoral Fellow at University of Wisconsin and a member of the Dawoodi Bohra, “Afghanistan's trillion dollar curse: lithium”, June 13, 2010, http://blog.beliefnet.com/cityofbrass/2010/06/afghanistans-trillion-dollar-c.html)
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The words, "</span>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_curse|resource curse]]<span style="text-decoration: none;">" have never been more stark or inescapable</span></span>. In fact, this discovery portends total disaster for any hope of a liberal, stable Afghanistan…<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">United States has leverage by virtue of its presence - and we can use that leverage to try and ameliorate the worst of what is to come. </span></span>

**C. Troop reduction opens up market for Chinese mining in Afghanistan.**
<span class="cite">Huq 10</span> (Aziz Huq, writer for Foreign Policy, assistant professor of law at the University of Chicago and former analyst for the International Crisis Group in Afghanistan, “Chinese Takeout”, Foreign Policy, June 15, 2010, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/|//http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010///]] 06/15/chinese_takeout)
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">With its massive wealth, appetite for risk, and willingness to underbid others on labor costs and human rights conditionality, China …</span></span> extracted minerals out) and <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">it's easy to see what kind of influence the Chinese will bring to the table. </span></span>

**D. Mining in Afghanistan massively increases overall Chinese hegemony.**
<span class="cite">Swaine, 2k10</span> (Michael Swaine, PhD, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment, “China and the “AfPak” Issue”, China Leadership Monitor, No. 3, February 24, 2010, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/CLM31MS.pdf]])
Finally, aside from the AfPak issue’s importance in relation to Pakistan, the United States, Central Asia, and the larger Chinese struggle against radical Islamist terrorism, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Beijing</span></span> also <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">has</span></span> important, and growing, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">direct political and economic interests in Afghanistan. These … and global image as a helpful neighbor supportive of a significant international undertaking. </span></span>

**<span class="cite">E. Increased Chinese hegemony makes war with the US inevitable. </span>**
**<span class="cite">Layne, 2k7</span>** (Christopher Layne, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, 2007 ("The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415952034, p. 73-74)
To be sure, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the United States should not ignore the potential strategic ramifications of China’s arrival on the world stage as a great power</span></span>. After all, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the lesson of history is that the emergence of new great powers in the … power without running the risk of an armed clash with</span></span> [end page 73] <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Beijing. If the United States continues to aim at upholding its current primacy, however, Sino-American conflict is virtually certain</span></span>.

**<span class="cite">F. Impact – Extinction </span>**
**<span class="cite">Straits Times</span> , 2k** (Singapore), <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2000</span></span> (“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Available Online via Lexis-Nexis)
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China. If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national…it cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else</span></span>.



==Natural Disasters DA== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A.) Uniqueness - Natural disasters in the East Asia Pacific region inevitable - it's a question of preparedness. </span>

**Larkin 2** (K.B, Lieutenant-Commander, http://www.cfc.forces.gc.ca/papers/csc/csc28/mds/larkin.htm, AD: 6/25/10)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Australian Defence White Paper 2000 explains...event of a natural disaster.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> B.) Link - us military presence in south korea uniquely key to regional disaster relief</span>**
**Snyder 9** ( Scott- Director of the US Korea Policy and senior associate of Washington programs in the IR program of the Asia Foundation,CSIS, [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090409_snyder_pursuingcompvision_web.pdf]], AD: 6/25/10) j]
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> A U.S- South Korea Comprehensive......regional and global threats.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> C. Effective disaster relief key to US soft power- promotes US power projection</span>**
**Salenga 9** (Edilberto M, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA500907]], AD; 6/25/10)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The new Cooperative strategy...and deterrence is unprecedented.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(For the impact we sometimes read a Nye card that's like Soft Power checks all impacts etc.)</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">D. Soft power key to US hegemony.</span>**
**FRASER 03** ( Matthew, P.32, "Weapons of Mass Distraction : Soft power and American Empire")
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> First, while American soft...and and free-market capitalism.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> E.Impact- US hegemony key to prevent nuclear war.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Khalilzad 1995 </span>**



==DMZ Reunification DA== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A. Uniqueness – DMZ stable now – evidence assumes Korean tensions.</span>
**Rabiroff 10** (Jon, Stars and Stripes: the US military's independent news source, May 26, http://polytest.stripes.com/news/korean-dmz-looks-normal-despite-friction-1.104168)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">DEMILITARIZED ZONE, Korea — Tensions between North Korea and South Korea are at one of the most strained levels since the Korean War, but you couldn’t tell from what was happening in and around the DMZ on Wednesday. At the Joint Security Area in Panmunjom...North threatened Wednesday to shut down the facility if it is further provoked. None of that seemed to matter to the visitors and workers at the DMZ. Tours went on with no additional security measures. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">B. Link – US military presence in South Korea key to prevent Korean reunification.</span>**
**Van Nguyen 9** (Peter, UPI, Oct 13, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/13/us_bases_are_obstacle_to_korean_reunification/1193/) LL
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">However, U.S. military bases in South Korea could pose the greatest obstacle to a peaceful reunification of the Koreas. Even a unified Korea might not ...of all U.S. military bases and personnel from the Korean peninsula should follow after a timetable has been set, allowing the new Korea to handle its own security. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[#_Toc270699302]]</span>C. Reunification devastates DMZ biodiversity – constructions destroys wildlife.**
**Rabiroff 9** (Jon, Stars and Stripes: the US military's independent news source, Oct 13, http://www.stripes.com/news/relatively-untouched-dmz-is-home-to-a-number-of-natural-wonders-1.96409)


[[code]]
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">DEMILITARIZED ZONE, Korea — The water deer nibbled away on the vegetation on the gently sloping bend ...the endangered species does when wintering in the relative solitude of the Demilitarized Zone that divides North and South Korea. While mention of the DMZ conjures images of stone-faced soldiers, barbed-…The wildlife can sometimes provide a welcome distraction to U.S. servicemembers serving in the DMZ. </span>**
[[code]]

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">D. DMZ key to global biodiversity – thousands of globally important species that could go extinct.</span>**
**Shore 4** (William, sr associate @ Institute for Urban Systems, Oct 15, http://www.worldwatch.org/node/566) LL
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Korea's DMZ is the sacred resting place of soldiers and other war victims. Korean people have paid dearly and the DMZ memorializes that tragedy. Preserving the DMZ as a special place is therefore ...1,194 plant species. Some of them are globally significant, some globally rare and endangered-like the cranes. These can be the reservoir to re-establish lost species north and south. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">E. Impact – Biodiversity Loss Risks Extinction</span>**
**Montague, 95**. Peter Montague, “The Four Horsemen—Part 2: Loss of Biodiversity,” Rachel’s Enviornment & Health News, December 14, 1995, http://www.rachel.org/bulletin/bulletin.cfm?Issue_ID=651.
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Extinctions are dangerous ...of a dark abyss. In the process, we desecrate the wondrous works of the creator.</span>
==Specific Rounds== 
===Greenhill=== 
**Rd 2 vs GBN:**
**Consult NATO**
**XO CP**
**Afghan Minerals DA**
**Riders DA**
**Biopolitics K (2NR)**
**Case: Heg Bad, Terrorism Defense**

**Rd 3 vs Grapevine:**
**Plan Flaw - No Period (2NR)**
**T - Presence**
**Riders**
**XO**
**"The" PIC**
**Minerals DA**
**Heg DA**
**Biopolitics K**
**Case: Util Good, Biopower Links**

**Rd 5 vs Colleyville:**
**XO CP**
**Riders DA**
**Heg DA (2NR)**
**Reunification DA**
**Biopolitics K**
**Case: Miscalc Defense, Korean War Defense, Bilateralism Defense**

===**Grapevine**=== 
**Round 1 vs. Corsicana MC**

**2NR was "The" PIC**

**Grapevine Round 3 vs. St. Mark's MJ**

**2NR was Riders DA**

**Grapevine Round 5 vs. Greenhill SB**

**2NR was Riders DA**

**Grapevine Octos vs. Clearlake LS**

**2NR was Riders DA and Case (Korean War Defense)**

===**Memorial**=== 
**Round 1 vs. Mercedes MV**

**2NR was T - TNWs Belong to NATO**

**Memorial Round 3 vs. Westwood KF**

**2NR was Riders DA**

===**University of Texas**=== 
**Round 2 vs. Mercedes MV**

**T - Presence**
**T - TNWs Belong to NATO**
**"Weapons" PIC**
**Russia Conditions CP**
**Case - Turkish Proliferation, Turkish Relations, NATO Cohesion, Inherency**

**2NR was T - TNWs Belong to NATO**

**University of Texas Round 3 vs. Caddo Magnet AG**

**T - Reduce Not Eliminate**
**Plan Flaw - Big F Bad**
**Politics DA**
**"Government" PIC**
**Nietzsche K**
**Case - Capitalism Impact Turns, Solvency**

**2NR was the "Government" PIC**

**University of Texas Round 5 vs. Crosby CG**

**T - Presence**
**Plan Flaw - Colon Capitalization Bad**
**XO CP**
**Politics DA**
**JASA DA**
**Security K**
**Case - Indigenous Turn, Space Defense, Solvency**

**2NR was the Security K**

===**TFA State**=== 
**Rd 2 vs. Greenhill PP**

**T - Substantial**
**Heg DA**
**Honor PIC**
**Nietzsche K**
**Case - Impact Defense, Guam Turn**

**2NR was Nietzsche**

**Rd 4 vs. Reagan ZS**

**T - Eliminate**
**Heg DA**
**Veterans DA**
**Nietzsche K**
**Case - Police Presence Good**

**2NR was Nietzsche**

**Rd Double Octos vs. Winston Churchill BL**

**Framework**
**Nietzsche K**
**Case - Imperialism Good, Heg Good, Cap Good**

**2NR was Nietzsche**