[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Wake Forest - South Korea 1AC== 
**__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt;">South Korea 1AC </span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Contention 1: Status Quo</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> U.S. Recently Reversed Course On Operational Control, Extending Operational Wartime Control Of South Korean Forces For An Additional Three Years, Reflecting Ratcheted Up Tensions As A Result Of The Ship Sinking Incident</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Chan and Calmes 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> (Sewell and Jackie-, //New York Times//, June 27, p. 8) ncp</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">President Obama said …… react to sanctions and other punishment. </span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt;">There is still a state of war – 28,500 troops prove </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Lasseter 10** </span></span><span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Tom, 6/21, Staffwriter, “Sixty years after war broke out, Korean peninsula still in limbo, accessed 6/21, </span></span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;"><span class="cardChar">[[http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/06/21/96276/sixty-years-after-war-broke-out.html]], JH)</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">__The conflict that began in …..__</span></span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Northerners over its borders</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span> </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">__GDS and MONTICELLO PLAN TEXT__ </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Calibri;">THUS Amena and I endorse that: </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> The United States Federal Government should gradually but completely withdraw the United States Forces Korea.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> We reserve the right to clarify </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Contention 2: Sexual Slavery </span>**</span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> Korean woman are exposed to an endless cycle of abuse, depression, and poverty through conditions imposed by troops </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt;">Moon 1997 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Katharine H.S. Moon, <span class="style12">Department of Political Science and Edith Stix Wasserman Chair of Asian Studies at Wellesly College; “</span><span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt;">Sex Among Allies – Military Prostitution in US – Korea Relations”</span>**</span> </span>[[http://www.springerlink.com/content/9gbnr495lkrj/?p=8fe863a3f95c4d46a6ee339aada26a3b&pi=0|Volume 31, Number 1]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">, pgs 85-86<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt;">; </span>**</span><span class="style12">accessed on 6/23/10 FS) </span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">40 who were living in Seoul in 1965, 60% were unemployed." …. of debt, which usually results from the "agency fee" and advance pay. </span>

<span style="line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Woman in South Korea are only viewed as tools for pleasure creating a sexist dichotomy of human and sub-human allowing for their frivolous abuse to become shrouded </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt;">Moon 1997 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> (Katharine H.S. Moon, <span class="style12">Department of Political Science and Edith Stix Wasserman Chair of Asian Studies at Wellesly College;</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal; letter-spacing: -0.1pt;"> “</span></span><span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt;">Sex Among Allies – Military Prostitution in US – Korea Relations”;</span>**</span><span class="style12"> accessed on 6/23/10 FS) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In the middle of rice paddies, a …….__for work to attract the guys."__'</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Masculinity is at the root of all impacts.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Tickner 92</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">[J. Ann, Professor of International Relations at University of South California, "</span><span style="color: #366388; font-size: 12pt;">Gender in International Relations</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">: Feminist Perspectives on Achieving Global Security," page 128] </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Previous chapters have also called attention to the extent to ……. __**unequal gender relations**.__ </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The patriarchy over women causes violence and nuclear war—impact is extinction.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Warren and Cady ‘94 (Karen and Duane, Professors of Philosophy at Malacaster College and Hamline University, Hypatia, Spring)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> The notion of patriarchy as a socially woman-nature-peace connections in regional, national, and global.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"> **<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The Continual downplaying of women prevents the US from foreseeing how prostitution is a major component in the ideology of national security </span>**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> [[#_Toc265094055]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">(Andris, </span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Department of Political Science, “Human Rights, the Sex Industry and Foreign Troops: Feminist Analysis of Nationalism in Japan, South Korea and the Philippines”,<span class="apple-style-span"> Cooperation and Conflict, Vol. 44, No. 1, 51-71</span> ; 2009 Accessed 6/22/10 AW GW) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In order</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **to …..**interests of nationalist projects.`</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">A decrease in American troops would prevent the unfair classification of women </span>**</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> [[#_Toc265094049]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">(Andris, </span></span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Department of Political Science, “Human Rights, the Sex Industry and Foreign Troops: Feminist Analysis of Nationalism in Japan, South Korea and the Philippines”, 2009 Accessed 6/22/10 </span></span>

<span style="color: #231f20; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;">As Jennifer Butler has pointed out, **__categorizing some women ….__** role in the national policies. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Plan is an important factor to end sexual exploitation in South Korea </span>**</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"> **<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Zimelis 09 </span>**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">(Andris, </span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Department of Political Science, “Human Rights, the Sex Industry and Foreign Troops: Feminist Analysis of Nationalism in Japan, South Korea and the Philippines”,<span class="apple-style-span"> Cooperation and Conflict, Vol. 44, No. 1, 51-71</span> ; 2009 Accessed 6/22/10 AW GW) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prostitution practices around US military bases in South Korea</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ……Just as in Japan, women had to live in fear of the foreign troops. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> [[#OLE_LINK1]]</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The US perceives North Korea as a rogue nation in an attempt to remain in Cold War logic. </span>**</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Bleiker**</span>__</span> Ph.D. in international relations from the Australian National University, Jul **<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2003</span>__ </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">(Roland, “A rogue is a rogue is a rogue: US foreign policy and the Korean nuclear crisis”, </span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"> International Affairs, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3569570]] DA: 18/05/2010 pg. 14 jb, sob)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">__Rogue states were among the new…..__</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, 'you are either with us or against us.'57 </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> **The Cold War mindset was a framework which justified U.S. creation of post war South Korean police state** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Cumings 2005**</span></span> (Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 209) ncp</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"><span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">American policy, of course, never set out to create …..as an East-West problem. </span>__</span>**</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">U.S. falsely asserts that North Korea is a threat, despite North Korea wanting rapprochement – It is entrapped on the Cold War mentality. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Kang 03**</span></span> <span class="cardChar">(David C., Sept. 03, Associate professor of government and adjunct associate professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college, “International Relations Theory and the Second Korean War”, International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 3, Date accessed: 5/18, JH)</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"> Most importantly, <span class="underline">__North Korea has …..__</span>of The Titanic and The Little Mermaid. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">These assertions are predicated off of assumptions – Authors create a caricature of the real Kim Jong-Il because no grounded evidence is available. </span>__</span>**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Kang 03**</span></span> <span class="cardChar">(David C., Sept. 03, Associate professor of government and adjunct associate professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college, “International Relations Theory and the Second Korean War”, International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 3, Date accessed: 5/18, JH)</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"> __<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">If North Korea was so weak …. how untenable these assumptions are</span></span>__ <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Roy, 1994; Smith, 2000). </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Demonization and caricaturing of North Korea reflects and reify the marginalization of the Koreas, risking regional war and global holocaust**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Cumings 2005** </span></span>(Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 487-88) ncp</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">__The point is not that North Korea …. **a regional if not a global holocaust**__</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span>** </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"> **The plan is key – Troop withdrawal necessary for South Korea to transcend U.S. Cold War driven imperialism – Without withdrawal, Koreans not only lack agency, but are exposed to dangerous miscalculations and denied necessary security stability in Northeast Asia**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Cumings 2005**</span></span> <span style="font-size: 11pt;">(</span>Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 470-71) ncp</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The Cold War was more ….ultimate place in the world remain unresolved. </span>__</span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**The plan is key – a complete withdrawal is the only way to ease tensions in the Korean peninsula.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Scofield 04**</span></span> (David, Staffwriter for the Asia Times, Feb 28, “Korean Peace requires US compromise, troop exit”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/FB28Dg06.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">, Date accessed: 6/28, JH)</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"> <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">__A new deal__</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> today <span class="underline">__would be tough, ….__ </span>extricating itself from what has become its Korean quagmire. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Realism can’t predict North Korea – Empirical failure**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Kang professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college 03**</span></span> <span class="cardChar">(David C., Sept. 03, Associate professor of government and adjunct associate professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college, “International Relations Theory and the Second Korean War”, International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 3, Date accessed: 5/18, JH & BH)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">Additionally, <span class="underline">__the Korean case…. , none of these assumptions is tenable.__ </span></span>
=Negative=