[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 


=Afghanistan Security= 


Plan: the United States federal government should withdraw the totality of its military and police presence in Afghanistan



Contention one is the Good War –

**1. Our occupation has ravaged the region – causing not only massive death but unquantifiable structural violence**

Derrick Crowe, “2010: Worst Year for Civilian Deaths of the Afghanistan War,” The Huffington Post. February 2, 2011. Accessed 2/3/11. http://www.rawa.org/temp/runews/2011/02/02/2010-worst-year-for-civilian-deaths-of-the-afghanistan-war.html

Last year was ... "progress" is being made.



**2. This is the end result of the Realist paradigm – deaths of individuals cannot be considered in its strategic calculus**

Kevin Ayotte (Ass’t Prof of Comm at CSU- Fresno) & Mary Husain (Lecturer in Comm at CSU-Fresno) NWSA Journal 17.3 (2005) page muse Accessed March 2nd, 2011

The failure of military intervention ... of Afghan women as well.



**3. You should prefer this impact – an ontology of crisis makes war inevitable and ignores the causes of international violence**

Slavoj Zizek (senior researcher at the Institute of Sociology, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Ljubljana|University of Ljubljana]]</span> and Slovenian Superhero) Violence p 1-4 2008

If there is a unifying ... a different position. 



**4. Dominant discourses surrounding US policy in Afghanistan are based on disconnected narratives construct the identity of the Other, justifying and sustaining neocolonial violence around the globe**

Lori Crowe (Graduate Student of Political Science, York University) “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’” 2007, Accessed March 2, 2011, http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf

We also identify ... interrogate them. 


**5. This constructs Afghanistan as an object of knowledge in the West – the only concern is how to regulate perceived threats in the region**


Neil Cooper (Professor of Peace Studies at Bradford), “Picking out the Pieces of the Liberal Peaces: Representations of Conflict Economies and the Implications for Policy,” Security Dialogue, pp. 471. 2005.

The political economies ... virulent versions (Klein, 2005). 



**6. The securing of Afghanistan relies on the ‘evangelism of fear’ – but this project can never be fulfilled – it merely ensures that security is always just one war away, one more enemy to be destroyed**

Lori Crowe (Graduate Student of Political Science, York University) “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’” 2007, Accessed March 2, 2011, http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf

Looking specifically at the relationship ... strategies of imperial politics. 




**7. Insecurity is inevitable – there will always be those in Afghanistan that could threaten us – but the desire to hedge against this uncertainty gives way to a war on difference and truncates life**

James Der Derian (Director of the Global Security Program and Research Professor of International Studies at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University) On Security, pg 32-4, 1995

Originating in the paradoxical ... the desire for security. 




**8. The evangelism of fear created nuclear weapons and constantly demands their use**

Peter Coviello (Assistant Professor of English at Bowdoin) Queer Frontiers, 2000

The decisive point ... scarcely be done without.




**9. The neg will try to enforce a threat based politics – you should reject their politics because the enemies they identify are socially contingent and far from objective**


Anastassia Tsoukala (Research Fellow at the University of Paris V-Sorbonne and Associate Professor at the University of Paris XI) “Boundary-creating Processes and the Social Construction of Threat,” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, 2008 Volume 33, Issue 2, April-June, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Elite, p. 137-138

While the tenants ... when creating outcasts.6


**10. You should err aff on whether threats are real – false predictions multiply and sustain international violence**

Ronnie Lipshutz (Director of Adlai Stevenson Program on Global Security) After Authority, p 50 2000

None of this means ... can be only too deadly. 



**Finally, Realism is a social construct – it only has power through the narratives of those who support it**

David Grondin (Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa), “(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’” Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17. 2004.

Approaches that deconstruct ... identity and freezes it. 






Contention two is Solvency –

**1. We demand the unconditional withdrawal from Afghanistan – this dismantles the most vicious manifestations of US Imperialism and calls into question those very assumptions**

Mike Ely (Founder of the Kasama Project) Kasama “We Must Demand Complete Immediate Withdrawal from Afghanistan” October 10th 2009, Accessed March 1st 2011, http://kasamaproject.org/2009/10/10/we-demand-complete-immediate-withdrawal-from-afghanistan/

Do we support U.S. domination ... needs to be explored and engaged. 



**2. Voting affirmative ruptures dominant narratives surrounding Afghanistan and deconstructs the cycles of failed intervention and threat perception**

Lori Crowe (Graduate Student of Political Science, York University) “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’” 2007, Accessed March 2, 2011, http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf

We need to navigate ... who is being disappeared? 





**3. Representations shape knowledge about Afghanistan – it permeates policymaking and encourages certain outcomes. Incorporating our criticism of language into public policy is key to reversing militaristic narratives**

Lori Crowe (Graduate Student of Political Science, York University) “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’” 2007, Accessed March 2, 2011, http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf

In trying to understand the ... without the media”.





**4. Intellectual criticism in debate is key – it breaks down hegemonic discourses and spurs resistance**

Richard Wyn Jones (Professor International Politics @ Aberystwyth University) Security, Strategy, and Critical Theory, p. 155-163 1999 
The central political task ... behind its positivist façade.


**5. No risk to voting aff – political issues are better resolved by abandoning security – it frees us from the baggage of our representations**

Ole Weaver (Senior researcher), “On Security,” Center for Peace and Conflict Research, pp. 65. 1995.

Finally, the approach ... the process as co-securitizer.


**6. A more just world order is possible – deconstructing realism allows cooperation among ‘nations’ and individuals that stems the flow of international violence**

Mark Busser (Masters Candidate at the Dept of Political Science at York University) “The Evolution of Security: Revisiting the Human Nature Debate in International Relations”, Aug 2006 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[@http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP40-Busser.pdf]]</span>
Clark describes the African ... ‘tolerance’ as opposed to ‘respect.’81 



**7. Be skeptical of Neg evidence - the way they produce knowledge is a parrot of the state disseminating violent capillaries of knowledge**

Mark Neocleous (Prof. of Government at Brunel), Critique of Security, pp. 182-4. 2008.

I have been arguing, ... the fetish of our time.


=Afghanistan Policy= 

__**Contention One is The Status Quo**__

**1. The Afghan troop withdrawal won’t happen – base expansions prove**

Jason Linkins (political reporter for the Huffington Post), Huffington Post, August 9, 2010, “U.S. Expands Its Footprint At Bagram Air Force Base”, accessed September 14, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2010/08/09/us-expands-its-footprint_n_675566.html]]</span>

Sometime around the spring […] hour away from Kabul."

**2. However, Obama’s deadline created mass confusion – means your disads are non-unique**

Michael O’Hanlon (Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution and a co-author of Brookings' Afghanistan Index), Foreign Affairs, Sept/October 2010, “Staying Power”, volume 89, number 5

Most important, in announcing […] them any less important.

**3. Despite massive US involvement – Afghanistan’s security is spiraling out of control**

Matthew Hoh (served in Iraq as a marine captain, went on to serve in Afghanistan for the State Department. He resigned his position there in 2009 because he disagreed with US operations in Afghanistan), Intelligence Squared, November 10, 2010, “Afghanistan Is A Lost Cause”, accessed November 17, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://intelligencesquaredus.org/wp-content/uploads/Afghanistan-111010.pdf]]</span>

Keep in mind […] to join the insurgency.

**4. This is because the US strategy in Afghanistan is fundamentally flawed for 9 reasons**

Harlan Ullman (A Senior Advisor at the Atlantic Council and a member of its Strategic Advisors Group, he is also a Distinguished Senior Fellow at the National Defense University), Atlantic Council, June 30, 2010, “9 Reasons U.S. is Losing in Afghanistan”, accessed August 21, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/9-reasons-us-losing-afghanistan]]</span>

If that report were […] produce a lasting effect.

__**Thus, plan:**__

**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and police presence in Afghanistan.**

**We reserve the right to clarify**

__**Contention Two is Collateral Damage**__

**1. US occupation has made civilian casualties skyrocket**

Mike Ludwig, Truthout (a nonprofit organization dedicated to providing independent news and commentary on a daily basis), August 11, 2010, “Civilian Casualties in Afghanistan: Beyond the Body Count”, accessed August 21, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.truth-out.org/civilian-casualties-afghanistan-reach-all-time-high62222]]</span>

The United Nations announced […] or injured so far.

**2. Occupation radicalizes Pakistani Taliban – threatening governmental collapse**

Shameem Akhtar (senior ME analyst at Islam Online), Islam Online, January 26, 2010, “Pakistan's Instability: The US War Factor”, accessed September 13, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs%2FMAELayout]]</span>

As one can see, […] is a laudable initiative.
**3. Pakistan’s on the brink – only a chance plan saves moderate groups**

Kanti Bajpai (Professor in the Politics and International Relations of South Asia at Oxford), Times of India, September 13, 2010, “Exit Is A Smarter Strategy”, accessed September 16, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/opinion/edit-page/Exit-Is-A-Smarter-Strategy/articleshow/6541291.cms]]</span>

Ten years on, the […] still have a chance.

**4. Pakistani collapse sparks Indo-Pak war and regional destabilization**

Thomas Ricks (staff writer), Washington Post, October 21, 2001, “At Pentagon: Worries Over War's Costs, Consequences”, accessed August 21, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer]]</span>

The prospect of Pakistan […] Strategic and International Studies.

**5. This is the most probable scenario – even a conventional attack quickly escalates to the nuclear level**

Dr. Alan Robock (professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction), and Owen Brian Toon (professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of), Scientific American Magazine, January 2010, “South Asian Threat? Local Nuclear War = Global Suffering), accessed September 13, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war]]</span>

India and Pakistan, which […] bases with traditional forces.

**6. Independently, US operations prevent development of regional Afghan trade**

Neil Padukone (Neil Padukone is a US-based security and international affairs consultant. He is currently a Visiting Fellow at the Institute of Security Studies, Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi), Oil Price, October 6, 2010, “Reconnecting Afghanistan to the Rest of the World - Against US Interests”, accessed December 1, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://oilprice.com/Geo-Politics/Middle-East/Reconnecting-Afghanistan-to-the-Rest-of-the-World-Against-US-Interests.html]]</span>

Afghanistan was not always […] that it would benefit Iran.

**7. That’s key to regional stability and solves multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict**

S. Frederick Starr (Chairman of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute at the Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University), The Asia Society, 2003, “Afghanistan: Free Trade and Regional Transformation”, accessed December 1, 2010,<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cacianalyst.org/Publications/Starr_Asia_Society_Afghanistan.htm]]</span>

However great the economic […] world security is grounded.

**8. Withdrawal solves stability**

Leon Hadar (research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia), Cato Institute, July 28, 2010, “What Happens If U.S. Troops Leave Afghanistan? Not the End of the World As We Know It”, accessed August 20, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011]]</span>

My guess is that […] a regional military conflagration.

**9. There’s no risk to withdrawal – terrorism is no longer a possibility in Afghanistan**

Doug Bandow (Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. He also is the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and the Senior Fellow in International Religious Persecution at the Institute on Religion and Public Policy. He served as a Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan), Cato Institute, July 20, 2010, “Why Are We in Afghanistan?”, accessed August 20, 2010,<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11995]]</span>

The original justification for […] could similarly host terrorists.

**10. Anything less than full withdrawal fails and only further destabilizes the country**

Thomas Hegghammer (senior research fellow at the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment (FFI) and an associate of the Initiative on Religion in International Affairs at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs), Foreign Policy, November 11, 2009, “The big impact of small footprints”, accessed September 3, 2010,<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/11/11/the_big_impact_of_small_footprints]]</span>

Why, then, would a […] away from the aftermath.

__**Contention Three is the Graveyard of Empires**__

**1. While the US possesses strong foundational advantages - US power abroad is not guaranteed**

Robert J. Lieber (Professor of Government at Georgetown University), International Politics, March 2009, “Persistent primacy and the future of the American era”, 119-139

In general, effective alternatives […] democratic order – depend on it.

**2. However, Afghanistan depletes US strategic reserves – this will get exploited by adversaries**

George Friedman (American political scientist, chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College), Stratfor, June 29, 2010, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan”, accessed August 11, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan]]</span>

From the grand strategic […] re-establish its ground reserves.

**3. Afghan occupation drains economic and military resources and political focus essential to maintain US foundations of power**

Stephen M. Walt (Dean of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government), Foreign Policy, August 9, 2010, "A realistic approach to China," accessed August 19, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/08/09/a_realistic_approach_to_china]]</span>

Thomas Wright has an […] quality of life here at home.

**4. Afghan withdrawal is key to avoid economic implosion and restore soft power**

William Polk (member of the U.S. Policy Planning Council responsible for the Middle East from 1961 to 1965. Subsequently, he was professor of history and director of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Chicago and later president of the Adlai Stevenson Institute of International Affairs. Author of many books on international affairs, world and Middle Eastern history), History News Network, November 23, 2009, “How to Get Out of Afghanistan”, accessed September 13, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://hnn.us/articles/120371.html]]</span>

We are indeed at […] “a city on the hill.”

**5. Primacy prevents every scenario for nuclear conflict – there is no alternative**

Robert Kagan (Professor of American History, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund), Hoover Institute, September 7, 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, accessed August 11, 2010,<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136]]</span>

The jostling for status […] in under unfavorable circumstances.
**6. US hegemony makes the world go ‘round and is the only viable bulwark against great power war, terrorism, rogue states, and proliferation**

Bradley A. Thayer (Associate professor of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University), The National Interest, November 10, 2006, “In Defense of Primacy”, accessed August 12, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/article/in-defense-of-primacy-1300]]</span>

Thus, it is no […] matters great and trivial.
**7. Because the logic of hegemony is inevitable, we must maintain primacy through all necessary means**

Jisi Wang (Director of the Institute of American Studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences), US-China Economic and Security Review Commission, December 10, 2003, “The Logic of the American Hegemony”, accessed August 10, 2010,<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.uscc.gov/researchpapers/translated_articles/2005/05_03_23_logic_of_the_american_hegemony.htm]]</span>

It is unrealistic for […] age of multipolarity arrive.

**8. Unipolarity is empirically and comparatively most peaceful**

WilliamWohlforth (professor of government at Dartmouth College), World Politics, January 2009, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War”, accessed August 22, 2010, Muse

Does unipolarity promote peace […] tend to be zero sum.9

**9. Even if they win multipolarity is possible and preferable it doesn’t matter – transition means extinction**

Zbigniew Brzezinski (National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University), The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership, 2004, pg. 2-4

History is a record of change, […] weapons of mass destruction.

**10. Afghan withdrawal allows the US to refocus its power – solving hegemony and global cooperation**

Kanti Bajpai (Professor in the Politics and International Relations of South Asia at Oxford), Times of India, September 13, 2010, “Exit Is A Smarter Strategy”, accessed September 16, 2010, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/opinion/edit-page/Exit-Is-A-Smarter-Strategy/articleshow/6541291.cms]]</span>

With so much invested […] the woods for the trees.
=Negative= 

look on other SFL wikis for jazz we run on the neg (i.e. Security K)
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]