[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==__**COIN 1AC**__== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention One: Inherency </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama’s timetable for withdrawal is only tentative - Petraeus is laying the groundwork for an escalation of the war in Afghanistan – despite rising opposition </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rothschild 8/16/10</span>** (Matthew, //editor in chief- Progressive Magazine//, [[http://www.progressive.org/wx081610.html]])

<span style="color: black;">General David </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Petraeus is in the midst……. to come around again next July</span></span>**<span style="color: black;">. </span>**


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">COIN is doomed to fail—insurgency and instability are inevitable for as long as we keep up the stratagey</span>**. 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Raham 8/12</span></span> (Dr S.M. Rahman is Secretary General FRIENDS, a Think Tank established by General Mirza Aslam Beg in Rawalpindi [[http://www.opinion-maker.org/2010/08/counter-insurgency-using-power-or-prudence/|Counter-Insurgency (COIN) Using Power or Prudence?]]
[[http://www.opinion-maker.org/2010/08/counter-insurgency-using-power-or-prudence/Donie|http://www.opinion-maker.org/2010/08/counter-insurgency-using-power-or-prudence///Donie]])

<span class="Emphasis2">Terrorism abhors power…</span> Nazis’ holocaust against the Jews.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Therefore we offer the following plan: </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its military presence engaged in counterinsurgency operations in Afghanistan. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We’ll Clarify. </span>


Contention Two: The Empire might not strike back
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">COIN will fail no mater what we do, the government has no credibility, this assures we will LOSE THE WAR. COIN commits the US to Afghanistan for 40 more years and independantly cripples readiness </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hirsh 6/24</span></span> (Michael is the former Foreign Editor and chief diplomatic correspondent for //Newsweek//. He is currently a senior editor in the magazine's Washington bureau. “Replacing McChrystal Doesn’t Change Anything”
[[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/06/24/replacing-mcchrystal-doesn-t-change-anything.html/Donnie|http://www.newsweek.com/2010/06/24/replacing-mcchrystal-doesn-t-change-anything.html//Donnie]])

By replacing a general who was universally criticized…. has atrophied over the past 6 years.”


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">COIN cripples US hegemony—it over reaches our military and prepares us for wars we won’t fight, devestating readiness. </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cohen 9</span></span> ( Michael, was a Senior Research Fellow at the New America Foundation and ran the Privatization of Foreign Policy Initiative, which examined the growing influence and impact of non-state actors in U.S. foreign policy. “<span style="color: black;"><span style="color: black;">[[http://enduringamerica.com/2009/04/02/michael-cohen-on-the-trouble-with-counter-insurgency/|Michael Cohen on The Trouble with Counter-Insurgency]]</span>”</span>
April 4. <span style="color: black;"><span style="color: black;">[[http://enduringamerica.com/2009/04/02/michael-cohen-on-the-trouble-with-counter-insurgency/Donnie|http://enduringamerica.com/2009/04/02/michael-cohen-on-the-trouble-with-counter-insurgency///Donnie]]</span>)</span>

As I’ve written before….. not a realistic or easily applicable military doctrine.


The risks to U.S. power from withdrawal are a myth - a continued heavy troop presence and protracted conflict in Afghanistan uniquely cripples U.S. power projection 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Innocent and Carpenter 09</span>** (Malou <span class="cite">Innocent</span> is a foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan; <span class="cite">and </span>Ted Galen <span class="cite">Carpenter is </span>vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato, Cato Institute 200<span class="cite">9</span> – available at: [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/19645403/Escaping-the-quotGraveyard-of-Empiresquot-A-Strategy-to-Exit-Afghanistan-Cato-White-Paper]]).

<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode America’s Global Status…. undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal. </span></span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We control uniqueness: U.S. presence in Afghanistan is unsustainable and fuels resentment at home and abroad while crippling the economy </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Petras 6/16</span>** (Prof. James Petras, of Sociology at Binghamton University June 16, 2010, Afghanistan: The Longest Lost War,[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=19758//adam]]

<span style="color: black;">Despite almost a decade of warfare… decade long destructive occupation. </span>


Escalating the conflict in Afghanistan results in massive military overstretch and cripples the economy—kills US heg 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Engelhardt 2010</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Tom, fellow at The Nation Institute, Teaching Fellow at the Graduate School of Journalism @ UC Berkeley, “Obama Starting to Sound Like Bush,” April 1, Mother Jones, </span>[[http://www.motherjones.com/mojo/2010/04/obama-sounds-like-bush/]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> //__Italics in original__//] </span>

Starting with that bomber’s jacket….<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">“folly” doesn’t come to mind, what does?</span> </span>


[[#_Toc270467640]]
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne 2009</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Christopher, Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and Nat'l Security at the George H.W. Bush School of Gov't and Public Service @ Texas A&M U, "The Waning of U.S. Hegemony -- Myth or Reality?" International Security, Volume 34, Number 1, Summer, MUSE] </span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">U.S. strategic retrenchment would…. hegemony overthrown by a similar process.</span> </span>


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Readiness is key to heg—decline causes other powers to challenge the US </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spencer 2k </span></span>(Jack , is the Research Fellow in Nuclear Energy Policy at The Heritage Foundation's Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies. “The Facts About Military Readiness” Sep. 15
[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2000/09/bg1394-the-facts-about-military-readiness/Donnie|http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2000/09/bg1394-the-facts-about-military-readiness//Donnie]])

<span class="underline">Military readiness is vital… interest, thereby </span><span class="Emphasis2">preserving peace</span>. 


Ultimately, U.S. primacy is critical to preventing great power wars and maintaining world peace 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 2006 </span></span>[Bradley A., Assoc. Prof. Defense and Strategic Studies @ Mo. State U, “In Defense of Primacy,” in The National Interest, Nov/Dec, Proquest]

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability…. war's worst form: great power wars</span></span>.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention three: Regional Stability </span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A heavy troop presence in Afghanistan is the key destabilizing factor in the region it spills over to Pakistan </span></span>
Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at Cato, ’09 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Malou Innocent, “Afghanistan = Bottomless Pit of Massive Social Engineering”, 9/2/09, [[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/02/afghanistan-bottomless-pit-of-massive-social-engineering]]) </span>

Obsidian Wings echoes my frustrations…. U.S. strategic ambitions in moralistic values.


Independent studies prove- counter-insurgency efforts strengthen the Taliban and incite terrorist activity 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cortright 09</span></span> (David Cortright, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, OCTOBER 19, 2009, “No Easy Way Out”, http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=11917 | ) </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">War is an inappropriate instrument… kill Americans and their supporters.</span> </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pursuing the centralization of power in Afghanistan is flawed and results in ethnic violence and extremism </span>**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheragh</span></span>, March 2nd <span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009,</span></span> “<span class="ssl0">Afghan paper highlights need for </span><span class="hit">decentralization</span><span class="ssl0"> of power”, BBC News, Lexis-Nexis </span></span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The effort for centralization of power….</span></span> ethnicities would get more vulnerable.


U.S. presence only serves to legitimize and fuel the Pashtun insurgency - spilling over into Pakistan and destabilizing the region 
<span style="color: black;">Matthew **Hoh, 2009,** (former State departmart offical in Afghanistan, and former US marine, </span>[[http://www.jotmideast.com/2009/10/afghanistan-text-of-resignation-letter.html]]) 

This fall will mark the eighth year…. <span style="color: black;">for such success and victory. </span>


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Increasing troop levels will inflame extremism, solidify Pashtun resistance and risk a complete collapse of the government in Pakistan </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kristof 09</span></span> - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a columnist for The Times since 2001, is a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner (Nicholas D., 9/6, “The Afghanistan Abyss,” New York Times, </span>[[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/09/06/opinion/06kristof.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

President Obama has already dispatched….. others who also know Afghanistan well.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pakistan instabiltiy causes India to launc a pre-emptive nuclear strike on Pakistan </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ricks 2001</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thomas Ricks is the author of Fiasco: The American Military Adventure in Iraq, 2003-05, which was a no. 1 New York Times bestseller and a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2007. He is special military correspondent for The Washington Post, senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a contributing editor for Foreign Policy magazine. Washington Post – October 21, 2001 – [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer]] </span>

The prospect of Pakistan being taken…. Gardiner, an expert on strategic games. 


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">An Indo- Pak war would rapidly escalate with devastating consequences - it is the most likely and most severe nuclear war scenario in the current geopolitical climate—causes extinction </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Robock and Toon 2010</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years.. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado.[1] He received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 2010 Scientific American Magazine – http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war </span>

Nuclear bombs dropped on cities…. declines would be greatest in the tropics. 


Contention four is the flip side of the COIN 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The current mission is critically flawed - terrorism is inevitable – only withdrawal reduces recruiting and the incentive for large scale attacks </span>**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hornberger 09</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (</span>Jacob, Founder and president of The Future of Freedom Foundation, 2/9, “Immediately Withdraw from Afghanistan Too”, [[http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-02-09.asp]]) 

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">“But the terrorists will follow us….</span></span> unconnected to terrorism in Afghanistan. 


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Phased withdrawal solves all their turns—CT is key to overall stability in the region </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stewart 09</span></span> (professor at the Harvard Kennedy school of government, 09, a when testifying at congress, [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan]]//adam )//

//<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The greatest risk of our inflated…. long-term, less will be more. </span></span>//


//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Counterterrorism no links all of your turns- your authors will mistakenly perceive CT as withdrawal, but that’s backwards </span></span>//
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nelson 9</span></span>//<span style="font-style: normal;"> ( Rick Nelson is a senior fellow in the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C “</span>//The Other Side of the COIN” October 1 [[http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin/Donnie|http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin//Donnie]])//

//**<span style="font-weight: normal;">Q2: So how should the United States….</span>** <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">any “all-in” approach would entail. </span></span>//



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**COIN is doomed—ethic backlash and history assure the US fail and leave no mater what** </span>
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hader 7/28/10 </span>** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Leon T., </span>**//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia. He is the author of </span>//[[http://www.catostore.org/index.asp?fa=ProductDetails&pid=1441262|Sandstorm: Policy Failure in the Middle East]]//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, Cato Institute, </span>//[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011]]**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>**
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">But the COIN strategy that….</span></span><span style="color: black;"> <span class="apple-style-span">another for many years to come.</span></span>

=Negative= 
==**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Disadvantages </span>**== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
===**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ROK Prolif (South Korea Neg) </span>**=== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">U.S military presence and credibility is strong now – keeps ROK prolif in check </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 12pt;">Bennett 7/1/10</span></span> <span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 9pt;">[Bruce Bennett 2010 Senior Policy Analyst – RAND Corporation, “S. Korea’s Military Capability ‘Inadequate’”, Chosun Ilbo, 1-29, http://english.chosun.com/site/data/html_dir/2010/01/29/2010012900705.html, 7/1/2010] </span>
<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 9pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;">An American academic says… South Korean spending each year. </span>
<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">US withdrawal causes ROK to proliferate  </span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 12pt;">Buchanan 6</span></span> <span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;">[Patrick J. Buchanan, senior advisor to three Presidents, columnist, political analyst for MSNBC, chairman of The American Cause foundation and an editor of The American Conservative, 2006 (“An Asian Nuclear Arms Race?,” vdare.com, 10/10/2006, http://vdare.com/buchanan/061010_arms.htm, 7/4/2010] </span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">For over a decade…. build her own nuclear arsenal</span>


<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">ROK prolif will spur Asian arms race  </span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 12pt;">Chanlett-Avery and Squassoni 6</span></span> <span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;">[Emma Chanlett-Avery, Analyst in Asian Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division AND Sharon Squassoni. Specialist in National Defense, Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, 10/24/06, CRS Report for Congress, “North Korea’s Nuclear Test: Motivations, Implications, and U.S. Options” Google]</span><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";"> </span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;">Many regional experts fear that…. plutonium processing for both countries.24 </span>
<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Asian arms races will spark nuclear conflict </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 12pt;">Cimbala 8</span></span> <span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen Cimbala, Comparative Strategy, Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia, Vol. 27 #2, 2008, informaworld] </span>
<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The spread of nuclear weapons in Asia….</span></span><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;"> center of gravity (in the present century).14 </span>

===**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1NC China DA (south korea neg) </span>**=== 
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
Uniqueness China currency bill may pass the Senate, but Obama has the political capital to veto it 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters 10/25</span></span> (“GOP poised to gain tax, banking clout in U.S.” [[http://blogs.reuters.com/columns/2010/10/25/gop-poised-to-gain-tax-banking-clout-in-u-s/Donnie|http://blogs.reuters.com/columns/2010/10/25/gop-poised-to-gain-tax-banking-clout-in-u-s///Donnie]])

<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">This may be one of the few….</span></span> All are favored by Republicans.


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Link: Withdrawal would be massively unpopular – several reasons </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harrison 3</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Selig, Director of the Asia Program at the Center for International Policy, is a senior scholar of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and director of the Century Foundation’s Project on the United States and the Future of Korea. He has specialized in South Asia and East Asia for fifty years as a journalist and scholar and is the author of six books on Asian affairs and U.S. relations with Asia, Baluch expert and left wing theorist at the Carnegie Institute. Former managing editor of The New Republic, Former senior fellow in charge of Asian studies at the Brookings Institution, Senior fellow at the East-West Center and Lecturer in Asian studies at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, Adjunct professor of Asian studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs, George Washington University, “Korean Endgame: A Strategy for Reunification and U.S. Disengagement”, p. 181-182) </span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Why has the presence of U.S. ground….</span></span> their headquarters in the United States.


Internal link: A bad political environment is driving the bill—Obama needs political capital to hold it off
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters 9/8</span></span> (“Senate, House eye action on China currency”
[[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6875RK20100908?pageNumber=1//Donnie]])

<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; text-decoration: none;">A volatile political environment….</span></span><span class="BodyTextChar"> </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">energize their union base</span></span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif";">," Griswold said. </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times","serif";"> </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times","serif";"> </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Impact: Statements by Chinese officials prove Obama __signing__ it causes a trade war </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miami Herald 10/8</span>** (“U.S.-China trade war feared” [[http://www.miamiherald.com/2010/10/08/1862882/us-china-trade-war-feared.html/Donnie|http://www.miamiherald.com/2010/10/08/1862882/us-china-trade-war-feared.html//Donnie]])

<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The Chinese ambassador to the United States….</span></span> discuss business opportunities in China.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China bashing escalates to trade war that goes hot—even if the US wins the shooting war it still collapses its geopolitical position</span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Liu 5</span></span> **(Henry C K Liu** is chairman of a New York-based private investment group. **“**<span style="color: black;">Trade wars can lead to shooting wars” </span>****<span style="color: black;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/GH20Dj01.html/Donnie|http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/GH20Dj01.html//Donnie]] </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">US </span></span>geopolitical <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">hostility toward China….</span></span><span class="BodyTextChar"> </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">world plagued with overcapacity</span></span>. 


US china war escalates—causes extinction 
**__(STRAIT TIMES__**<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">, June 25, </span>**__2K__**<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">, Pg. l/n) </span>
<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";"> </span>
**<span style="font-weight: normal;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates….</span>** **<span style="font-weight: normal;">we would see the destruction of civilization</span>**<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">.</span>

===1NC Russia DA (Afghanistan Counternarcotics Aff)=== 

Uniqueness—Relations are on the brink and Afghanistan is key
Josh <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogin </span></span>2010 <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">June 24</span></span>, “Opinions vary on state of U.S.-Russia relations”

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The U.S.-Russia "reset" will begin…</span> <span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">most important, to what end."</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span></span></span>


Link—Ending Counternarcotics in Afghanistan destroys US-Russia relations.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stack 6-11</span></span> [2010, Graham, Staff writer at Russia: Beyond the Headlines, “War on
Afghan Drugs,” [[http://rbth.ru/articles/2010/06/11/russia_puts_anti-narcotics_in_afghanistan_at_top_of_international_agenda.html]]]

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">A series of vigorous statements by….</span></span><span class="BodyTextChar"> </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">resisted and the insurgency grows.</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span></span></span>


Impact—US Russia Relations Key to prevent Accidentla Nuke war
Newsweek 2010
– 9/1 (“How to Manage Moscow”, http://www.newsweek.com/id/154906/page/1)

Or take existing nuclear weapons… <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">within constraints where they must</span></span>**.** 


And, Accidental War causes Extinction
Babst 2002
(Dean, retired government research scientist and Coordinator of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation's Accidental Nuclear War Studies Program, "Preventing an Accidental Armageddon", http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/babst-armageddon.html)

Although international relations have changed…. <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">the potential for an accidental Armageddon.</span></span>



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]