[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=====JMEs- Read at BVN===== 
observation one: inherency
Ongoing joint us-south korean military exercises are unprecedented in scope and will continue until the end of the year.
Xinhua news, ‘10
[“U.S. show of force in Asian waters a threat to China: magazine,” Edited by Fang Yang, 8/14/10, [[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/china/2010-08/14/c_13444993_3.htm]], accessed 9/14/10]
Recent and planned... resolving South China Sea Disputes

plan:
The United States federal government will ban all scheduled and future Joint Military Exercises in the Republic of Korea. Enforcement will be through the Department of Defense. Status Quo withdrawal policies will be followed. We can clarify.

Advantage one is north Korea
Joint military exercises, or j. m. e.’s, exacerbate differences in the us-chinese relationship, making cooperation on the north korean issue impossible.
thompson 8/13
[Drew, the director of China studies and Starr senior fellow at The Nixon Center in Washington, DC., “China’s Perspective of Post-Cheonan Regional Security*” [[http://asiafoundation.org/resources/pdfs/0813DrewThompson.pdf]], accessed 9/15/10]
Beijing sees these... in the Cheonan case?

North Korea is beginning a potentially complicated power hand-off right now- Kim jong-il recently shuffled leadership to position his youngest son to take power
Panda, 10/13
[Rajaram, Senior Fellow for the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, Ph.D. from the School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, “Power Transition in North Korea creates more uncertainty for future,” 10/13/10, [[http://www.idsa.in/idsacomments/PowerTransitioninNorthKoreacreatesmoreuncertaintyforfuture_rpanda_131010]], AD 10/14/10]
As has been speculated... legitimacy to his position.

A lack of experience will prompt Kim Jong Un to seek out confrontation with the West to reaffirm his credibility with the military. This upsets all of our earlier assumptions about deterrence.
Laurence, 10/13
[Jeremy, reporter for Reuters, (Citing Bruce Klingner, Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia at The Heritage Foundation's Asian Studies Center) “Analysis: North Korea's new leadership to steer same path,” 10/13/10, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE69D0KC20101014?pageNumber=1]], AD 10/14/10]
Kim Jong il, believed... Korean Air flight

kim jong un is looking for an easy way to carry out an act of brinkmanship to cement his credentials
Laurence, 10/ 13
[Jeremy, reporter for Reuters, (Citing Bruce Klingner, Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia at The Heritage Foundation's Asian Studies Center) “Analysis: North Korea's new leadership to steer same path,” 10/13/10, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE69D0KC20101014?pageNumber=1]], AD 10/14/10]
By anointing his... risking regime instability

Joint military exercises are the perfect target for kim jong un—they already embolden korean hard-liners to strike
pomfret ‘10
[John, “U.S., allies working on new N. Korea strategy,” The Washington Post, 9/16/10, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/09/16/AR2010091606692.html]], AD 10/21/10]
The United States and its allies... proliferate weapons of mass destruction.

And, War outweighs your DA’s- A.) Magnitude-
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Africa News 99
if there is one place... relations with north korea</span></span>

B.) Probability-high tensions on the korean peninsula make escalation to
world war 3 likely.
Stratfor ‘10
(5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” [[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula]], JMP)
So, the real issue... escalates much further.

C.) Timeframe- kim jong un will only have limited time to prove himself.
Chang, June 15
[Gordon G., writes a weekly column at Forbes.com. He is the author of ‘Nuclear Showdown: North Korea Takes On the World.’, “Korea after Kim has gone,” 6/15/10, [[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/06/15/korea-after-kim-has-gone/2/]], accessed 9/15/10]
Yet despite all the... without parental backup.

China feels threatened by joint military exercises, compelling them to back North Korea.
The economist 9/2
[Prominent current affairs magazine, “Greetings, Comrade,” 9/2/10, [[http://www.economist.com/node/16945299?story_id=16945299&fsrc=rss]], AD 9/15/10]
China has complained...the bitter end.


in the absence of us provocation china could rein in north korea, but the threatened Chinese instead feel forced to prioritize ideological alliances.
Cha, ‘10
[Victor D. Cha, Senior advisor and Korea Chair for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Interviewed by Bernard Gwertzman, Consulting Editor for the Council on Foreign Relations, May 26, 2010, “North Korea: Succession Signals,” [[http://www.cfr.org/publication/22219/north_korea.html]], AD 9/14/10]
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">The U</span></span>nited <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">S</span></span>tates <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">and South Korea… not long-term thinking</span></span>.

a strengthened us presence drives china into a stronger alliance with north korea.
seth September 9th
[Sushil, Australia-based writer, The Taipei Times, “The US-China contest for power,” [[http://taipeitimes.com/News/editorials/archives/2010/09/09/2003482434]], accessed 9/15/10]
The recent China visit of … hold the opposing flag.

china has total influence over kim jong-un—it holds the key to a successful transition.
Foster-Carter, September 13th
[Aidan, Honorary Senior Research Fellow in Sociology and Modern Korea, Leeds University, UK, “N Korea’s future is likely to be as a Chinese satellite,” [[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/dae11b90-bed4-11df-a755-00144feab49a.html]], accessed 9/15/10]
Yet they underplay … a Chinese satellite.

China alone still has the power to deter north korea- close economic ties give them the ability to drive a wedge between kim jong un and his military.
Nanto ‘10
[Dick K, Specialist in Industry and Trade, and Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, Congressional Research Service, “North Korea: Economic Leverage and Policy Analysis,” 1/22/10, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL32493.pdf]], accessed 9/15/10]
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">China remains the DPRK’s …</span></span> passed through Dandong

advantage two is china
scenario 1 is chinese nationalism
US-South Korean naval drills enrage chinese nationalists
Browne 8/20
[Andrew, and Evan Romstad, Wall Street Journal, “U.S.-South Korea Exercises Rile China,” 8/20/10, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703791804575439121959919024.html]], accessed 9/15/10]
BEIJING—<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Plans</span></span> by the U.S. and South Korea <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">… have become strained</span></span>.

Specifically, nationalists perceive a war with the US as imminent and believe the US will be drawn in
Frank <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ching</span></span> June 16, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span> The China Post “China, U.S. ties still frigid at best” Retrieved on June 26, 2010 from [[http://www.chinapost.com.tw/commentary/the-china-post/frank-ching/2010/06/16/260853/China-US.htm]]
Although China voted …<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> close to their home.</span></span>”


JMEs cause a massive risk of miscalculation
Christopher <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bodeen</span></span> 06/27/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span> AP “Chinese nationalists increasingly strident” Retrieved on 06/26/2010 from [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5gMEFC7eXk74KBudZVCpBKWr_Mr6wD9GIDB180]]
BEIJING — Upcoming <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">joint U.S.-South Korean naval …</span></span> policy," Tsang said.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, Chinese perception of containment causes lash-out- increases all scenarios for war
Klare 6 </span></span>[Michael, staff writer, Salon, 4/19/06, "Taking aim at the sleeping dragon"<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.salon.com/opinion/feature/2006/04/19/klare/]]</span>]
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Add all of this together…</span></span> victors from such a conflagration.

Specifically, the drills anger nationalist generals
lee september 5th
Sunny **Lee**, (Foreign Correspondent for the National) **9/05/10**, “A ‘new Cold War’ in the Yellow Sea”, Published by the National, [[http://www.thenational.ae/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20100906/FOREIGN/709059912/1015]]
China, a veto-wielding …<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the Chinese navy</span></span>__.__

Chinese nationalism leads to unauthorized nuclear launch on the U.S.
Erik <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fogg</span></span> 12/06/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span></span> (MA in International Relations – MIT) “The Chinese Nuclear Weapons Program and its Threat to the United States and Her Allies” Retrieved 06/28/2010 [[http://web.mit.edu/efogg/Public/chinanuclear.pdf]]
Nonetheless, the United States … China and to the world.

SCENARIO TWO IS US-CHINESE RELATIONS
Joint military exercises encroach on the chinese spehere of influence and crash relations
Global times ‘10
[Global Times June 09 2010 “Yellow Sea no place for US carrier” Retrieved on 06/26/2010 from [[http://opinion.globaltimes.cn/editorial/2010-06/540008.html]]]
But the <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">US should reconsider …</span></span> another important cornerstone of security in the region.

the chinese government prioritizes maintaining relations below preventing nationalist backlash
auslin, October 2nd
[Michael, director of Japan studies at the American Enterprise Institute and a columnist for WSJ.com., “Woken Up by a Stirring Dragon,” Real Clear World, [[http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2010/10/02/woken_up_by_a_stirring_dragon_99212.html]], AD 10/14/10]
Beijing could take steps to assuage …<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">chance an outright clash</span></span>.

Relations solve multiple nuclear wars
Desperes '1
[John, Rand Fellow, "China, the United States, and the Global Economy," Shuxun CHen & David Wolf, p. 229]

Nevertheless, America's main... Currently endangered species.

China relations solve your DA
Xinhua News 9
[3/1/9, l/n.]
As the most... the 41-page report.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]