[[toc]]
=<span style="font-size: 24px;">Affirmative</span>= 
See Kevin Lou for aff cites: [[mailto:loukevin233@gmail.com|loukevin233@gmail.com]]

[[2010-2011 — Westminster (GA) — Kevin Lou & James Pavur|http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/2010-2011+%E2%80%94+Westminster+(GA)+%E2%80%94+Kevin+Lou+%26+James+Pavur]]

=Negative= 

See Aaron Smith for Neg cites: smithcaaron10@gmail.com.
==Topicality== 

===Presence = Troops=== 

**Substantially means including the main part**
**WORDS AND PHRASES, 1964**, p. 818. 

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">“Substantially” <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">means</span></span> in substance; <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in the main</span></span>; essentially; <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">by including the</span></span> material or <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">essential part</span></span>. </span>

**Presence refers to personnel stationed in a region**
<span class="copyrightdescription">**The** **Oxford Essential Dictionary of the U.S. Military, 2** (by Oxford University Press, Inc. All rights reserved, republished and cited as “US Military Dictionary” at: </span>http://www.answers.com/topic/presence) 

<span class="tabtitle"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">US Military Dictionary:</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">presence </span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">n.</span>**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">a group of people, especially soldiers or police, stationed in a particular place</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">: maintain a presence in the region.</span>

===Substantial 25% (Bagram)=== 

**A substantial reduction is 25% - military regulations prove.**
**Tomanelli, 94**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Major Steven N. <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Tomanelli</span></span> et al, has served as a Judge Advocate in the United States Air Force, Chief of Acquisition and Fiscal Law for the Air Force s Air Mobility Command, and Senior DoD Counsel for the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO), Army Lawyer, February <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">1994</span></span>, Lexis Academic </span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">1. Regulatory Changes--Notification Requirements...the proposed termination or reduction. </span>

**Presence is the totality of military activities in each country.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Barry M. </span>**Blechman et al**<span style="font-size: 90%;">,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">President of DFI International, Spring, </span>**<span class="cite">1997</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Strategic Review, p.14</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Given its multifaceted nature, neither...<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">requisite infrastructure and sustainment capabilities</span></span>." </span>

**Police presence refers to US civilian police trainers**
**Dobbins, 3** – Director, International Security and Defense Policy Center, RAND National Security Research Division (James America's Role in Nation-Building: From Germany to Iraq, [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR1753/MR1753.ch9.pdf]]) 

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">INTERNATIONAL POLICE PRESENCE OVER TIME...</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">significant deployments of international police.</span>

**The aff does not reduce 25% of the US military presence, just Joint Task Force 435, which is 1,200 military personal**
**Daniels 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lisa, American Forces Press Service, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, “Task Force Ensures Fair Detainee Treatment, Commander Says” 8/6/10 http://www.defense.gov/News/NewsArticle.aspx?ID=103004) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Joint Task Force 435 was...guard the facility, Harward said. </span>

===Future Presence=== 

**Presence means to currently exist.**
The <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">American Heritage Dictionary</span></span> of the English Language, 20<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">09</span></span> Fourth Edition Accessed Online, May 1, 2010 at [[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/presence]]

<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">pres·ence</span></span> (prěz'əns) n. 1. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">The state or fact of being present; current existence or occurrence.</span></span>
==Kritiks== 
===Heidegger=== 

====1NC==== 

**The search for solutions is the source of the problem. Each of our efforts at control beings about new crises, and new solutions, and still new crises, in an escalating cycle of serial policy failure. Their claim to finally have it right, to finally have the balance of policy prescriptions is just the latest grasp at control through calculative thought that is the root of the problem. What needs to be re-thought is the search for solutions itself. Doing nothing in the face of crisis gives us a way to break free.**
**McWhorter ’92** – Professor of Philosophy at Northeast Missouri State (LaDelle, __Heidegger and the Earth__, ed: McWhorter, p. vii-viii) 

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Thinking today must concern itself...new paths and new possibilities. </span>


**The fantasy of control obliterates other types of knowledge; it is impossible to do both. Moreover, the calculative approach reduces all Being to meaningless standing reserve.**
**McWhorter ’92** – Professor of Philosophy at Northeast Missouri State (LaDelle, __Heidegger and the Earth__, ed: McWhorter, p. vii-viii) 

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">In order to approach the...not ultimately under human control. </span>


**The reduction of Being to standing reserve is the root cause of war and terrorism. When we think in terms of threats to the population, we all become replaceable in the calculus of decision makers, and war can go on forever. As with the war on terror, the line between war and peace, or civilian and soldier, are blurred. The whole world has become a battlefield.**
**Mitchell ’05** – Philosophy Fellow, Stanford and <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://proquest.umi.com/pqdweb?RQT=318&pmid=13174&TS=1137771668&clientId=9803&VType=PQD&VName=PQD&VInst=PROD|Research in Phenomenology]]</span>. Pittsburgh (Andrew J., <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://proquest.umi.com/pqdweb?RQT=572&VType=PQD&VName=PQD&VInst=PROD&pmid=13174&pcid=16292731&SrchMode=3|2005]]</span>.Vol.35 pg. 181, 38 pgs, Proquest, HEIDEGGER AND TERRORISM) 

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">With everything available as standing-reserve... peace; beings have become uncommon. </span>


**Hence, our alternative: do nothing.**


**Our alternative solves: Refusing to act, even in the face of annihilation, will release us from the trap of managerial thinking that brought us to the brink of catastrophe in the first place.**
**McWhorter, Professor of Philosophy at Northeast Missouri State, 92** (LaDelle, __Heidegger and the Earth__, ed: McWhorter, p. vii-viii) 

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">When we attempt to think ecologically...to thinking without predetermined aim. </span>

====2NC Overview==== 

**Managerialism reduces everything to standing reserve ending in genocide**
**Dillon, 99** professor of politics at the University of Lancaster, 99 (Michael, Political Theory, April, ingenta select)

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">The value of the subject...of championing the invaluable itself.</span>


**Genocide risks destruction on a global level – allowing future genocide causes extinction**
**Campbell 2001** - Professor Of Political Science And International Relations (Kenneth J., University of Delaware, Assistant Genocide and the Global Village, p. 15-16)

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Regardless of where or on...of the prevailing international order. </span>


**Military strategy in the modern era risks extinction**
**Shaw ‘2** (Martin, sociologist of global politics, war and genocide and Research Professor of International Relations, “International Relations: Risk-transfer Militarism, Small Massacres and the Historic Legitimacy of War”, 343-359, http://ire.sagepub.com/cgi/reprint/16/3/343, Sage)

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">If risk-transfer warfare raises questions...in many respects more striking.24 </span>
==Past Rounds== 

===Fayette=== 

Round 2 vs. Marist (Afghan COIN)

1nc-Security K, WIthdrawal DA, BIlat CP, Circumvention Turn
2nr-Bilat CP and Circumvention Turn

Round 4 vs. Dunwoody (Afghan COIN)

1nc-Security K, Withdrawal DA, Politics DA
2nr-Withdrawal DA and Case

===JV State=== 

Round 1 vs. Houston County (Okinawa)

1nc- China Aggression DA, Politics (KORUS), Allied Prolif
2nr- China Aggression DA and Case

Round 3 vs. Dunwoody (Afghan COIN)

1nc- Heidegger K, Pakistan DA, Pakistan CP
2nr- Pakistan DA and Case

Round 5 vs. Tift County (TNW)

1nc- T-Presence, Security K, Congress Funding CP, Politics (KORUS)
2nr- Congress Funding CP

===Vestavia=== 

Round 1 vs. Stratford (Bagram)

1nc- T-Substantial 25%, Security K, Reform CP, Court Capital DA
2nr- Security K

Round 6 vs. MBA (BMD)(Block 2a))

1nc- T-Future Presence, Heidegger K, China CP, ROK-Japan Relations DA,