== == 
[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Vestavia 1AC== 

**Plan Text:**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of United States counterinsurgency troops in Afghanistan.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">COIN takes away important resources and builds up the Taliban</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**Afghanistan Study Group 8-16-10** ("A NEW WAY FORWARD: RETHINKING U.S. STRATEGY IN AFGHANISTAN", http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/NewWayForward_report.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">President Obama has … a fundamentally different approach. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Advantage 1 is Heg:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">First – mixture of counterinsurgency and counterterrorism overstretches the military</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**Boyle**, Lecturer in International Relations and Research Fellow at Univ of St. Andrews, **10** Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?” http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">This episode indicates … terrorist threats. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Overstrech collapses heg and causes nuclear miscalculation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**Florig**, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, **10** (Dennis, “Hegemonic Overreach vs. Imperial Overstretch,” 2/6, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/Delivery.cfm/SSRN_ID1548783_code1259934.pdf?abstractid=1548783&mirid=1) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">There is an even larger question … prone to massive miscalculation. </span>

**Second - counterinsurgency in Afghanistan is the main cause of dollar vulnerability - collapses heg in the long term**
**Layne,** Professor and Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security, **10** (Christopher Layne, "Graceful Decline," The American Conservative, May 2010, http://amconmag.com/article/2010/may/01/0030

The dollar's vulnerability ... being waged in Afghanistan and Iraq.

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">No risk of turns – even if there is a short term decline in credibility – withdrawal sustains long term leadership</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**Innocent and Carpenter**, CATO, **9** *foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode … than would withdrawal. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"> Even a light presence allows for deterrence against threats – COIN ensures we’re forced out eventually</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"> **Stewart**, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights, **9** Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">The best Afghan policy would be … long-term, less will be more. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"> Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"> **Kagan**, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, **7** [Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Finally, there is the United States itself. … and global involvement will provide an easier path. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Advantage 2 is the Insurgency</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"> We will lose the war in Afghanistan – multiple reasons </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">First: No local support </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"> **Dorronsoro**, scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, **10** expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia (5/11/10, Gilles, “Karzai comes to Washington,” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40779]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Current U.S. strategy in … the coalition’s political capital. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"> Second: Lack of understanding and geographic complexity</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bandow**, Senior Fellow at CATO, 10-7-**10** (Doug, "Book Review: Afghanistan: A Cultural and Political History", http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12458&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+CatoRecentOpeds+(Cato+Recent+Op-eds))</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"> Nine years after the … represent very different peoples and experiences. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"> Third: A large military footprint combined with the perception of an illegitimate government</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"> **Galston**, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies a Brookings, **10** (William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Are the basic premises of our … long-term military presence and political force in Afghanistan. </span>

**Fourth: Poor intelligence**
<span class="Author-Date">Welch, Reporter on Afghanistan Policy, 10</span> (Dylan, "Afghan War Unwinnable Quagmire, Ex-CIA Man Says", Sept 1, http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2010/09/01-5)

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">THE war in Afghanistan ... Coalition to win in Afghanistan.</span>

**And small gains don’t translate into success**
<span class="Author-Date">**Cordesman,** Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy for CSIS, **11-2**</span>**-10** (Anthony H., "AFGHANISTAN AND THE DECEMBER REVIEW: Making the Right Judgments", http://csis.org/files/publication/101102_Afghanistan_December_Review.pdf)

There will be positive indicators ... victory into lasting gains.

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**Impacts:**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"> First – Pakistan – COIN drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Taliban – leads to collapse</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"> **Akhtar**, professor of International Realtions, Baluchistan University, **10** (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#1) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"> If it is a war against extremists … in FATA, but they may erupt at any moment, thus destabilizing the state. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Draws in China, India, Russia</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**Pitt**, New York Times, **9** international bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed … appears to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Second – nuclear terrorism – risk of an attack is high </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**Wohlstetter**, Senior Fellow at Discovery Institute and form advisor to the DoD, **10** (John, Letter from the Capitol: a global cyber-tour of events and analysis pertaining to war, security, economic & cultural issues, “LFTC - Nuclear Terrorism Threat Growing?,” 2010, 2-2, http://www.letterfromthecapitol.com/letterfromthecapitol/2010/02/lftc-nuclear-terrorism-threat-growing.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Of all the WMD threats, nuclear weapons remain … WMD threat persists and grows as Pakistan's stability erodes. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Extinction </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**Sid-Ahmed**, Political Analyst, **4** [Mohamed, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">A nuclear attack by terrorists will be … we will all be losers.</span>

**Withdrawal will kill Al-Qaida's support globally**
**Farrall**, Senior Counter-Terrorism Intelligence Agent, **9** Australian Federal Police (Leah, "Al-Qaida prefers U.S. to stick around," The Austrialism, Novermber 12th, http://www.theaustrailian.com.au/news/opinion/al-qaida-prefers-us-to-stick-around/story-e6frg6zo-1225796639320)

A key objective is the denial ... more importantly, sustain Al-Qa'ida.

**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">AND – internal documents prove AL QAEDA is planning an agro-terror attack on the US from Afghanistan</span>**
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Morris 2007** – Major in the US Army</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> [MAJ Grant L. Morris (US Army) , A New Kind of War: Are We Prepared for Agroterrorism? A Monograph, United States Army School of Advanced Military Studies, 01-05-07]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Today, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) ... food industry provides tempting targets.”44 pg. 14-15</span>

**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Public would freak out – force reactionary solutions and retaliation</span>**
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Foxell 2003** - Member of the Academic Board of Advisers of the National Committee on American Foreign Policy. His research focuses on the effects of biological terrorism on agriculture [Joseph W. Foxell, Jr. (Professor of history at the City University of New York/College of Staten Island.), “The Terrorist Threat to U.S. Food Security,” American Foreign Policy Interests, 25: 99-126, 2003]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">An antilivestock, anticrop, or antisoil agroterror ... democracy, not simply make war on it.”23 pg. 109</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The world would end the world through retaliation**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Corsi 2005** [Jerome, PhD in Poli Sci from Harvard, Expert in Antiwar Movements and Political Violence, Atomic Iran, p176-178]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The combination of horror and outrage that will surge upon the nation ... while the country was still capable of exacting revenge.</span>

=<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Negative</span>= 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">See other Hooch teams</span>