[[toc]]
Any cite requests, please ask me---Teddy
=Counterplans= 

==Process/Generic CPs== 
===BRAC (Base Realignment Commission) CP=== 
====**1NC**==== 

**Text: Congress should re-establish the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission modeled off of the 2005 Commission. Congress should mandate the Commission have authority to close down Foreign Bases. Congress should recommend to the Commission that it <insert plan>.**

**CP solves all the case**
**Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission, No Date** (“Commission Process”, Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission, http://www.brac.gov/Process.html, KONTOPOULOS)
On May 13, 2005, the Defense Base Closure...approve or transmit either the initial or revised Commission recommendations by the above dates, the BRAC process will be terminated.

====**2NC Solvency**==== 

**There are no solvency deficits**
**MDED, No Date** (Missouri Department of Economic Development, “BRAC Frequently Asked Questions”, http://brac.ded.mo.gov/FAQ.htm, KONTOPOULOS)
The Commission forwards its...must start within 2 years, and actions must be completed within 6 years. (See Question 10 for more details.)

**And, the CP is in the best interest of the military**
**TRICARE, No Date** (“2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC)”, http://www.tricare.mil/tma/brac/, KONTOPOULOS)
Though there is a significant...impact on joint war fighting, training, and readiness. Doing more with less!

====**2NC AT: Links to Politics**==== 

**CP avoids link to politics –**

**1. Studies go neg**
**Beaulier, Hall, and Lynch, No Date** – *Assistant Professor of Economics at Mercer University, **Assistant Professor of Economics at Beloit College, ***Associate Professor of Economics at Mercer University (*Scott A., **Joshua C., ***Allen K., “The Impact of Political Factors on Military Base Closures”, KONTOPOULOS) Word Doc
We have examined whether or...mattered since the commissions were introduced in 1988. In addition, the difference between closure and realignment will be further explored.

**2. Minimized influence**
**Global Direct Investment Solutions, 09** (“2005 BRAC - US Military Base Realignment and Closure Process”, Global Direct Investment Solutions Last Copyrighted in 2009, http://www.gdi-solutions.com/directory/brac_2005.htm, KONTOPOULOS)
BRAC 2005 is quite different...of past BRAC rounds is likely to be even higher this time. There will be changes, but clearly most areas should not expect them.

====**2NC AT: Perm--Do CP**==== 

**It’s an effect – not an action – ev to support it**
**Claudle 9** – Texas A&M University (Sharon L., “National Security Strategies: Security from What, for Whom, and by What Means,” Journal of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, 6(1) Article 22, Galileo, RG)
Third, it is unclear who is...counter to departmental independence.

**Reduce is a permanent mandate**
**Reynolds 59** – Judge (In the Matter of Doris A. Montesani, Petitioner, v. Arthur Levitt, as Comptroller of the State of New York, et al., Respondents [NO NUMBER IN ORIGINAL] Supreme Court of New York, Appellate Division, Third Department 9 A.D.2d 51; 189 N.Y.S.2d 695; 1959 N.Y. App. Div. LEXIS 7391 August 13, 1959)
Section 83's counterpart with...degrade. The word "reduce" seems adequately to indicate permanency.

**“Should” means “must” and requires immediate legal effect**
**Summers 94** – Oklahama Supreme Court Justice (“Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant”, 1994 OK 123, 11-8, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn13)
¶4 The legal question to be resolved by...the future [in futurol]. See Van Wyck v. Knevals, 106 U.S. 360, 365, 1 S.Ct. 336, 337, 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).


==Afghanistan== 

===Hegemony Advantage CP vs. Full Withdrawal Aff (Hegemony and Terrorism Advantages)=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should increase the end strength of the United States army by 100,000 soldiers.**

**Current operational demands will crush the military – increasing the end strength by 100,000 solves long-term readiness**
**Boot, 5** (Max, Senior Fellow for National Security Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, Foreign Affairs, “The Struggle to Transform the Military,” March-April, Vol. 84, No. 2, p. 103)

The U.S. military must first focus on training and equipping infantry for irregular warfare. Counterinsurgency and peacekeeping are manpower intensive....switch at a moment's notice from fighting to peacekeeping, Washington should aim to create high-quality general-purpose forces that can shoot terrorists one minute and hand out candy to children the next.

===Fix COIN Advantage CP=== 
====**1NC**==== 

**Text: The United States federal government should:**
**-- re-assure its allies, including Pakistan, that the United States will remain unequivocally committed to winning in South Asia, including making the surge part of a permanent commitment to Afghanistan, publically clarifying that it has no withdrawal deadline from South Asia, not substantially reducing troops in Afghanistan and not rely upon an exclusive counter-terrorism strategy in Afghanistan.**
**--allocate the necessary resources and equipment to the Afghan National Army for it to function proficiently as well as provide effective training to the ANA by emphasizing quality of quantity.**
**-- enact and fully appropriate funds for the Department of Defense’s Fiscal Year 2011 Budget Request.**
**--conclude a long-term defense cooperation agreement with Afghanistan that safeguards Pakistan’s sovereignty and offers formal, U.S.-mediated discussions between Afghanistan and Pakistan to resolve the Durand Line boundary dispute**
**--end drone strikes in Pakistan**
**--establish a permanent three-star military headquarters in Afghanistan**
**-- continue brokering dialogue and diplomacy between Islamabad and New Dehli and seek to persuade India, Pakistan and the United Nations to allow U.S. military personnel to join the UN military observers currently monitoring the ceasefire between Pakistan and India.**
**--train and equip Pakistani Army Special Forces to properly conduct counterterrorism operations while pressuring President Zardari to utilize Pakistans forces against all known and suspected al-Qaeda hideouts in Pakistan and insist Pakistani leadership end its duplicity with regard to the Taliban**
**--expand Pakistani military participation in U.S. military exchange programs.**
**--request that the Pakistani Border Corps be empowered to forge immediate tactical-level agreements with U.S. forces in Afghanistan.**

**An iron clad commitment to the region is the only way to ensure peace and stability – and wins over Pakistan**
**Lynch 8**, Colonel in the U.S. Army, Military Fellow at the Brookings Institutions, former military Special Assistant to the U.S. Ambassador in Afghanistn, & former supervisor of U.S. military support missions for Coalition forces in Afghanistan (Thomas, “Afghan Dilemmas: Staying Power,” The American Interest, May – June, http://www.the-american-interest.com/article-bd.cfm?piece=422)
First, in Afghanistan the UnitedStates should follow...for a subsequent diplomatic efforts to bring peace and stability to all of South Asia.

**Pakistan support is critical to winning**
**O’Hanlon, 11/8** – Senior Fellow at The Brookings Institution—Specializing in Defense and Foreign Policy (Michael, 11/8/10, “How to Win Back Pakistan”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/11/08/how_to_win_back_pakistan?page=0,2, KONTOPOULOS)
But even if limited Pakistani...in Afghanistan. And it could cost him the war.

**Training the ANA is vital to successful counterinsurgency - frees up US personnel**
**Tellis, 9** – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues former Senior Adviser to the Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs, & former Senior Adviser to the U.S. Ambassador in New Delhi, (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,”http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf)
Framing the analysis of military operations...any want of ability or enthusiasm.

**Approving the DOD’s budget solves all of their readiness and equipment impacts**
**Chiarelli 10**, Vice Chief of Staff for the U.S. Army, former Senior Military Assistant to the Secretary of Defense, B.S. in Political Science from Seattle University, Master of Public Administration from University of Washington, Master of Arts in National Security Strategy from Salve Regina University, graduate of the U.S. Naval Command & Staff College, & a graduate of the Naational War college, 3-16-10 (General Peter, “Military Services’ Operation & Maintenance,” testimony before the House Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Readiness, CQ Congressional Testimony)
As all of you know, it has been a busy time for our Nation's military. We have been at war for the past eight-plus years. With the support of...Family Members around the world.

====**2NC AT: Perm**==== 

**The perm weakens perceived commitment – looks like a improve and exit strategy**
**Tellis, 9** – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues former Senior Adviser to the Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs, & former Senior Adviser to the U.S. Ambassador in New Delhi, (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,”http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf)
What will make the greatest...protecting the American people.

====**2NC Pakistan Plank**==== 

**Pakistan key to winning the war**
**O’Hanlon, 11/8** – Senior Fellow at The Brookings Institution—Specializing in Defense and Foreign Policy (Michael, 11/8/10, “How to Win Back Pakistan”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/11/08/how_to_win_back_pakistan?page=0,2, KONTOPOULOS)
As recent intelligence findings reported by the Washington Post in late October confirm, Pakistan remains at the heart of the U.S.-led coalition's...groups have home bases in Pakistan, and despite the occasional drone strike are generally beyond NATO's reach as a result.

====**2NC Commitment Plank**==== 

**Commitment is psychological – any perception of uncertain commitment allows the Taliban to lie low and outlive us. Commitment also encourages Afghans to help out who they think we eventually be the winning side**
**Rubin, 9** - Michael, resident scholar at AEI, “Not Nearly Enough on Afghanistan”, 12/1/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/101375)
There should be nothing wrong with...convinces the Taliban that his commitment to victory is unwavering, prepare for a dozen new Afghanistans.

**And committing wins over local allies, tribal chiefs and village elders, who are currently undecided – perception of resolve stops all conflict even if COIN fails**
**Tellis, 9** – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues former Senior Adviser to the Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs, & former Senior Adviser to the U.S. Ambassador in New Delhi, (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,”http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf)
Staying to win. The first...all the harder.

**Commitment prevents the Taliban from intimidating the population – intimidation prevents plan solvency**
**Lynch 8**, Colonel in the U.S. Army, Military Fellow at the Brookings Institutions, former military Special Assistant to the U.S. Ambassador in Afghanistn, & former supervisor of U.S. military support missions for Coalition forces in Afghanistan, 8 (Thomas, “Afghan Dilemmas: Staying Power,” The American Interest, May – June, http://www.the-american-interest.com/article-bd.cfm?piece=422)
Because American policymakers have poorly...tactical battlefield successes against the Taliban will amount to little

**Clarifying commitment to Afghanistan solves insurgency and terrorism, solves COIN**
**Lynch 8** - U.S. Army Colonel, military fellow at the Brookings Institution, military special assistant to the U.S. Ambassador in Afghanistan (June 2008, Thomas, “Afghan Dilemmas: Staying in Power,” The American Interest Online WX)

In mid-January, Defense Secretary Robert...one, has a difficult but necessary choice to make that has been ducked for far too long.

====**2NC ANA Plank**==== 

**Quality centered approach works – ANA is key to win the war**
**Cordesman, 10/1** (2010, Anthony Cordesman holds the Arleigh A. Burke chair in strategy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Slouching Towards 2011”, foreignpolicy.com, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/01/slouching_toward_2011?page=0,0)
Despite Obama's July 2011...accordingly -- or the mission in Afghanistan will fail.

====**2NC Fund Budget Plank**==== 

**Funding the DOD budget allows them to FULLY RESTORE readiness and equipment and meet all future challenges by 2012 – They have to prove someone will challenge us before then**
**Chiarelli 10**, Vice Chief of Staff for the U.S. Army, former Senior Military Assistant to the Secretary of Defense, B.S. in Political Science from Seattle University, Master of Public Administration from University of Washington, Master of Arts in National Security Strategy from Salve Regina University, graduate of the U.S. Naval Command & Staff College, & a graduate of the Naational War college, 4-14-10 (General Peter, “Military Readiness,” Testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Readiness & Management Support, CQ Congressional Testimony)
As all of you know, it has been a busy time for our Nation's military. We have been at war for the past eight-plus years. With the support of Congress...balance to the Force. Congress remains a vital partner in this shared endeavor.

**The counterplan solves the military’s inability to deal with unexpected missions**
**Chiarelli 10**, Vice Chief of Staff for the U.S. Army, former Senior Military Assistant to the Secretary of Defense, B.S. in Political Science from Seattle University, Master of Public Administration from University of Washington, Master of Arts in National Security Strategy from Salve Regina University, graduate of the U.S. Naval Command & Staff College, & a graduate of the Naational War college, 4-14-10 (General Peter, “Military Readiness,” Testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Readiness & Management Support, CQ Congressional Testimony)
Our Army remains a resilient, professional force dedicated to defending the homeland and defeating our Nation's enemies. However, eight-plus...properly care for, train, equip and support our Soldiers, Civilians, and Family Members around the world.

==Japan== 

===Delayish CP vs. 31st Marine Force Expedition Aff=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should create and offer Japan a seat at a Joint Commission to discuss major security affairs of the alliance. The United States federal government should recommend at the commission that it wants to gradually redeploy Marines from Japan other than the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit as well as a comparable number of Marines to maintain pre-positioned equipment and maintain access arrangement for the emergency use of Japanese facilities.**

**Solves your aff and avoids politics**
**Tanaka, 10** – Senior fellow at the Japan Center for International Exchange (Hitoshi, “The US-Japan Alliance: Beyond Futenma”, Japan Center for International Exchange, February 2010, p. 4, KONTOPOULOS) PDF
President Obama’s scheduled...Futenma relocation plan being examined merely from the perspective of the local burden—so this can instead be discussed in a healthier, broader context.

===Block 2A PIC vs. Carrollton DU -- Broken Octos of GDS=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should stop cooperating over development of missile defense systems with Japan.**

**Currently deployed missile defense capabilities only threaten short-range and regional missiles, they have no affect on China’s long range ICBMs which is what they care about for deterrence – BMD versus regional missiles IS effective and is making North Korea give up their nukes**
**Rubinstein, 07** – Washington DC consultant on US-Japan Defense Relations [Gregg A., Center for Pacific Asia Studies, “US-Japan Missile Defense Cooperation: Current Status, Future Prospects”, http://www.japanconsidered.com/OccasionalPapers/Rubinstein%20USJA%20BMD%20article%20090507.pdf]
Any discussion of BMD must...development of an upgraded SM-3 missile will be the centerpiece of joint program efforts for some years to come.

**Nuclear war**
**Straits Times, 09** ("North Korea Set to Undermine Asia's Peace and Stability", The Straits Times, June 1st 2009, Lexis Nexis, KONTOPOULOS)
HAVING tested a...wipe North Korea out if any US territory is attacked. This is the apocalypse of nuclear war Asia faces.

====**2NC Asian Stability Solvency**==== 

**Block 1A solves stability**
**Rubinstein, 07** (Gregg A., consultant on Security, Trade and Technology at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, September 5, “US-Japan Missile Defense Cooperation: Current Status, Future Prospects”, http://www.japanconsidered.com/OccasionalPapers/Rubinstein%20USJA%20BMD%20article%20090507.pdf)
Summary: So far developments...engagement in defense planning and operations.

**And, it prevents exporting**
**UPI, 10** ("Japan considers exporting SM-3 missiles," August 5, http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2010/08/05/Japan-considers-exporting-SM-3-missiles/UPI-45581281003540/)
TOKYO, Aug. 5 (UPI) -- Japan...System and is a compliment to the Patriot missile.

====**2NC China Solvency**==== 

**Current levels of Missile defense don’t trigger the link for China --- its only future deployments that are key**
**Toki, 09** – M.A. in International Policy Studies from the Monterey Institute of International Studies and Project Manager and Research Associate in the Nonproliferation Education Program at CNS (Masako, “Missile defense in Japan”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, January 16th 2009, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/missile-defense-japan, KONTOPOULOS)
Regionally, China has been disturbed...the region such as China to join in this endeavor.

**Acceleration of cooperation is crucial**
**Yuan, 06** – Associate Professor of International Policy Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies and Director of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program to the CNS Education Program (Jing-dong, “BEIJING CLOSELY WATCHING RECENT U.S.-JAPAN MISSILE DEFENSE DEPLOYMENTS”, WMD Insights, October 2006, http://www.wmdinsights.com/I9/I9_EA3_PRCJapan.htm, KONTOPOULOS)
Judging from the extensive coverage...coordination and improved inter-operability.

**There’s a distinction – they are OK with short-range missiles, but not LONG RANGE MISSILES**
**NTI, 07** (James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, “China's Opposition to US Missile Defense Programs”, Last Copyrighted 2007, http://www.nti.org/db/china/mdpos.htm#China%27s%20Opposition%20to%20TMD%20in%20Japan, KONTOPOULOS)
China's position on TMD...cruiser equipped with the NTW system could defend all of Taiwan.

**More evidence—China doesn’t care about current capabilities, but future ones**
**Yuan, 06** – Associate Professor of International Policy Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies and Director of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program to the CNS Education Program (Jing-dong, “BEIJING CLOSELY WATCHING RECENT U.S.-JAPAN MISSILE DEFENSE DEPLOYMENTS”, WMD Insights, October 2006, http://www.wmdinsights.com/I9/I9_EA3_PRCJapan.htm, KONTOPOULOS)
For the time being, Beijing...short-range missiles. [13]

====**2NC BMD Works Now**==== 

**Even if it doesn’t work against any other target it crushes North Korea**
**Terrill, 09** (Mike, 10/28, Staff @ Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance, PR Newspire, p. lexis)
Against the early evening clear sky...patrol and protect the people of Japan 24 hours a day and seven days as week.

====**2NC No Offense**==== 

**No offense -- Block IIAs inevitable**
**MDA, 10** – Missile Defense Agency (“The Missile Defense Program”, 2010, http://www.docstoc.com/docs/13374578/The-Missile-Defense-Program-2009-2010, KONTOPOULOS)
We are continuing our...complex cooperative projects ever undertaken between Japan and the United States.

====**2NC BMD Solves North Korea**==== 

**And, missile defense critical to deter North Korea**
**Huessy et. al, 09** – *President of GeoStrategic Analysis (Peter, “Boost-Phase Missile Defense: Present Challenges, Future Prospects”, George Marshall Institute, April 3rd 2009, p. 18-19, KONTOPOULOS) PDF
Let me answer your question, because...as soon as we can, because the threat is over the ho-rizon. With the curve of the earth, I may not see it until it is too late.

**Japan is vulnerable to North Korean missiles – current BMD checks the threat**
**Swaine et. al., 07** (Michael D. Swaine, 12/7, Ph.D., Harvard University, Senior Associate and Co-Director of the China Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Rachel M. Swanger and Takashi Kawakami @ Rand, “Japan and Ballistic Missile Defense,” p.RAND)

According to proponents...not ignore. 

==South Korea== 

===North Korean Proliferation Advantage CP=== 

====**1NC**==== 

**Text: The United States federal government should enter into a covert conversation with the People's Republic of China and say the United States federal government will not stop South Korea and/or Japan from obtaining nuclear weapons.**

**Threatening to support South Korea and Japan going nuclear solves North Korea Prolif – That’s their author**
**Carpenter, 06** - vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute (Ted, “Nuclear Neighbors Might Thwart N. Korea,” Chicago Sun Times, 11/11, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=6772)
Instead of putting a leash on...from a volatile, nuclear-armed North Korea. More proliferation may be a troubling outcome, but it beats that scenario.

====**2NC Solvency**==== 

**The risk of Japanese rearm will mobilize China to pressure North Korea**
**Bandow, 10** - senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author of Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire (Doug,”An Unstable Rogue”, 4/6, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23144)
Admittedly, now might...an opportunity to demonstrate the strength of its commitment to peace and stability.

**Japanese moves towards proliferation force Chinese sanctions on North Korea --- causes Kim to back down.**
**Martin, 09** (Bradley K. Martin, 5/27/2009. GlobalPost's North Korea columnist, 30-year veteran Asia correspondent for organizations including Newsweek, the Wall Street Journal, the Baltimore Sun, Asia Times and, most recently, Bloomberg News. “Opinion: Time to encourage Japan and South Korea to go nuclear?” Global Post, http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/southkorea/090527/time-encourage-japan-and-south-korea-go-nuclear?page=0,1.)
A different view is that...which point might the Kim regime, or its designated successor, finally be forced to enter into genuine leveraged buyout negotiations.”

**Threatening solves – Their author**
**Bandow, 09** – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (6/16/09, Doug, “A Tattered Umbrella,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=21606, JMP)
Even if the risk was small...on the North. And that, of course, is the ultimate goal: halt proliferation to the DPRK.

**And, there’s zero risk of offense -- they don’t have to actually go nuclear, looking credible causes Chinese action.**
**Klein, 06** (Philip Klein, 10/20/2006. The American Spectator's Washington correspondent. “Nuclear Japan,” American Spectator Blog, http://spectator.org/blog/2006/10/20/nuclear-japan)
In his Washington Post column today...Japan to actually go nuclear, as long as it looks realistic enough that they are going nuclear to twist China's arm.

==Turkey== 
====**Conditions CP**==== 

**Text: The United States Federal Government should <plan> on the condition that Turkey withdraw all its military forces from Cyprus.**

**The Turkish people resent the United States presence in their country – they want us out**
**Menon and Wimbush 7** (Rajan and S. Enders, Prof. of Intl. Relations at Lehigh University, Director of Center for Future Security Strategies, http://www.hudson.org/files/pdf_upload/Turkey%20PDF.pdf) GAT
The widespread belief among...moreover, abandon the longstanding premise that the United States remains the indispensable ally.

**Turkey will remove troops if the US offers concessions**
**Reuters 10** (Mar. 2 2010, http://in.reuters.com/article/idINIndia-465920201003020)IM
The Greek and Turkish...reception from Greek Cypriots.

**The Turkish occupation of Cyprus is ethnic cleansing**
**Zacharia no date** (Giorgio, PhD @ MIT, http://www.kypros.org/Cyprus_Problem/Turkish-Atrocities.html)JFS
In Cyprus, the same policies of ethnic cleansing...against Greek Cypriots because of their national origin, race and religion.

**Turkish occupation destroys Cypriot culture**
**Zacharia no date** (Giorgio, PhD @ MIT, http://www.kypros.org/Cyprus_Problem/Turkish-Atrocities.html)JFS
The occupying...secession of the occupied part and its ultimate annexation to Turkey.

**Turkish occupation is a genocide**
**Zacharia no date** (Giorgio, PhD @ MIT, http://www.kypros.org/Cyprus_Problem/Turkish-Atrocities.html)JFS
Turkey's analysis of conduct in terms of...recognised yet the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice.




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]