[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**St. Francis 1AC**</span>**</span>== 

**PLAN: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in Japan.**

**Advantage 1 is the SDF**

**Scenario 1 is Regional Stability**

**American overstretch makes ground troops obsolete and makes conflict without checks more likely – SDF is key to check back China and North Korea and solve regional stability**
**Kurlantzick 2**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10px;">(Joshua, visiting scholar in the Carnegie Endowment's China Program and a special correspondent for The New Republic, Axis of good: the case for remilitarizing Japan
HYPERLINK "<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1316/]]</span></span>"Washington Monthly, HYPERLINK "<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1316/is_2002_July-August/]]</span></span>"July-August, 2002, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1316/is_2002_July-August/ai_90114011/pg_7/?tag=content;col1]]</span></span>) JPG</span>
SINCE SEPTEMBER II, THE WORST-case scenarios … but as responsible soldiers.

**East Asian instability leads to nuclear war**
**Landy 2k** [Jonathon, National Security and International Correspondent, Knight Ridder, March 10, p. Lexis]
Few if any experts think China … shaky international nonproliferation regime.

**East Asia is the most likely area for conflict – multiple flashpoints, territorial disputes and lack of security cooperation**
**Dibb 1** (Paul Dibb is a Professor at the Australian National University, “Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review”, Winter/01, HYPERLINK "<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nwc.navy.mil/press/Review/2001/Winter/art2-w01.htm%29]]</span></span>"<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nwc.navy.mil/press/Review/2001/Winter/art2-w01.htm]]</span></span>)
The areas of maximum danger … when confronted with major crises.

**North Korea and China are making northeast Asia increasingly instable – plan checks escalaion of war and allows Tokyo to police the region**
**Bandow 10** (Doug, Senior Fellow @ CATO Inst., “Okinawa and the Problem of Empire”, Huffington Post, 3/25/10,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/okinawa-and-the-problems_b_512610.html]]</span></span>) JPG
Thus, the issue of fairness to … justice -- after 65 long years.

**Scenario 2 is Myanmar**

**An independent Japan is key to poverty reduction and stability in developing nations – specifically democratization of Myanmar**
**Koimuzi 2** (Junichiro, former prime minister of Japan, Speech given @ Singapore, 1/14/2, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.aseansec.org/5801.htm]]</span></span>) JPG
Instability is not always … for so many years.

**Democracy and human rights protection is key to Myanmar stability.**
**M2 Presswire ‘7** (“United Nations: Speed Up Myanmar Reconciliation Process, Urges Secretary-General As His Special Adviser Briefs Security Council On Recent Visit; Deeply Concerned over Rights Violations, Members Call for End to Repression, Immediate Release of Political Prisoners”, 10-8, L/N)
JORGE VOTO-BERNALES ( Peru) said … was of the utmost importance.

**Myanmar collapse causes India-China war and massive instability.**
**Straits Times ‘7** (Janadas Devan, Senior Writer, “Wedged between a rock and a hard place”, 10-26, L/N)
Prevent Myanmar from breaking … theatre, one might add.

**Nuclear world war 3**
**Dyer ‘5** (Gwynne, Independent Journalist, St. John’s Telegram, “India and China: avoiding the past”, 4-17, L/N)
It wasn't the sort of statement … confrontation, not towards it.

**Advantage 2 is Kan (this is missing one card, it'll be up asap)**

**The plan allows Kan to focus on economic reforms and increases DPJ credibility**
**Kyodo News 6/25** (Japan Times Online, 6/25/10, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100625a1.html]]</span></span>) JPG
Kan took over earlier … first time last year.

**Economic reforms key to stave off economic collapse – DPJ credibility key to coalition building and end policy gridlock on fiscal reforms**
**Parameswaran 7/14/8** (P., AFP's economics and financial correspondent in the Washington bureau, “IMF asks Japan to push ahead with sales tax hike”, 7/14/10, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5irAcmmSliudxoC83M5WvfCbYPP3w]]</span></span>) JPG
WASHINGTON — The IMF asked Japan … specter of policy gridlock.

**Japan is key to the worlds economy – only a risk reform checks depression – collapse erodes the checks that prevent escalation of conflict**
**Wall Street Journal 9** (Michael Auslin resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. “Japan's Downturn Is Bad News for the World-The U.S. can't count on Japanese savers”, February 2009http:online.wsj.com/article/SB123483257056995903.html)
As Hillary Clinton visits … world down with them.

**Economic collapse causes extinction**
**Kerpen 8** (Phil policy director for American’s for Prosperity October 28, 2008 <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.philkerpen.com/?q=node/201]]</span></span> From Panic to Depression? The dangers of blaming free trade, low taxes, and flexible labor markets)JFS
It’s important that we … an even greater scale.

**Advantage 3 is China**

**China’s rise is inevitable – US forward deployment necessitates Chinese military modernize its military to maintain regional dominance – withdrawal allows regional players to check China and decreases the likelihood of US-Sino conflict**
**Bandow 09** (1/12/09, Doug, Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan, “First Among Equals,” HYPERLINK "<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20570]]</span></span>"<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20570]]</span></span>)
It’s the job of military … will be the transition.

**US permanent presence in Japan encourages rapid Chinese military modernization.**
**Smith 10** (Sheila A., 6/5, Sr. Fellow Japan Studies at Council of Foreign Relations
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://two--plus--two.blogspot.com/2010/06/point-of-view-sheila-smith-more-mature.html]]</span></span>) JL
The current tension … in Japan,” he said.

**US policy shapes China’s military development – forward deployment creates a strategic rivalry that kills regional stability – withdrawal sends a signal of trust that allows cooperation, that’s key to regional peace**
**Xinbo 6** (Wu, professor at the Center for American Studies, Fudan University, and the Vice-President, Shanghai Institute of American Studies, “The End of the Silver Lining: A Chinese View of the U.S.-Japanese Alliance”, The Washington Quarterly, Winter 05-06, Volume 29 Issue 1, pp. 119-130, www.twq.com/06winter/docs/06winter_wuxinbo.pdf) JPG
It is unrealistic, given … regional peace and prosperity.

**Military modernization collapses the CCP due to friction with the PLA – makes China militarist and adventurist**
**Krawitz 3** (Howard M., Assistant Secretary for East Asian and Pacific Affairs @ U.S. Department of State, “Modernizing China's military: a high-stakes gamble?”, Strategic Forum, December 2003, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0QZY/is_203-204/ai_n13803180/pg_11/?tag=content;col1]]</span></span>) JPG
China is committed to modernizing … held by their elders.

**Chinese adventurism creates miscalculations that create a nuclear conflict with the US**
**Roberts et al. 5** – PhD, Inst (Brad, January 26, “The Nuclear Dimension of a Taiwan Crisis,” For Defense Analysis, Ashley J. Tellis, senior associate @ Carnegie, and Michael Swaine, China expert @ Carnegie, , Carnegie Endowment,
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/events/?fa=eventDetail&id=740]]</span></span>)
Dr. Roberts began his presentation … on this important subject.

**CCP Collapse leads to nuclear and biological world war – ensures China-US War that kills billions**
**Renxing 5** (San, Epic Times Staff Member, The CCP’s Last-ditch Gamble: Biological and Nuclear War, 8/5/5, The Epoch Times,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://english.epochtimes.com/news/5-8-5/30975.html]]</span></span>) JPG
As The Epoch Times’ Nine … gamble with their lives.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]