[[toc]]
=September-October= 
SEE INDIAN SPRINGS JL
==Affirmative== 
THIS AFF ALSO APPLIES FOR INDIAN SPRINGS JL
Rodl Deontology AC
V- M
Metastandard = reasons of a form that can be a source for action
VC - treating people as ends
Action is a unity, as we can distinguish between different steps in an action and the whole action.
Rödl, Sebastian. //Self-Consciousness//, Harvard University Press, 2007. 
"Suppose I walked... a unity of phases."

Further, inviolability is necessary to express the moral status of persons. 
Kamm, Frances. "In Search of the Deep Structure of Morality. An Interview with Frances Kamm." Interview by Alex Voorhoeve. Vancouver Island University. <span class="Hyperlink1">[[http://records.viu.ca/www/ipp/pdf/kamm.pdf]]</span>
<span class="Hyperlink1">"The key idea ... determines their worth."</span>

And, since I see myself as an end, I must extend that status to all others. 
Applbaum, Arthur Isak. “Are Violations of Rights Ever Right?” Ethics, Vol. 108, No. 2 (Jan. 1998), pp. 340-366. The University of Chicago Press. 
<span class="Hyperlink1">"Although Kamm's is ... to avoid and prevent."</span>

Finally, desirability conceptions of morality, such as consequentialism, are circular<span class="Hyperlink1">. </span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: 0.5in;">Parfit, Derek (Philosophy Professor, Oxford University). //Climbing the Mountain// (Unpublished). </span>
<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: 0.5in;"><span class="Hyperlink1">"According to desire-based... happiness as an end."</span></span>

<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: 0.5in;">I contend that the possession of nuclear weapons treats people as mere means. </span>
Churchill, Robert P. “Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue.” Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 469, Nuclear Armament and Disarmament (Sep., 1983), pp. 46-57.
"Threatening civilian populations... drivers of automobiles."

Bluffs and indecision still require a conditional intention to use nukes **and** are impossible to practically maintain. McMahan, Jeff. “Deterrence and Deontology.” Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr. 1985), pp. 517-536. 
"Suppose for the sake... such an intention."

Two constraints on self-defense: a) reciprocal, b) morally culpable. However, the possession of nuclear weapons violates both these constraints. Donaldson, Thomas. “Deterrence and Self-Defense.” //Ethics,// Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr. 1985), pp. 537-548. University of Chicago Press. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381036]].
"The critical moral feature... of the human species."

Deterrence requires countervalue targeting. Robert McKim. “An Examination of a Moral Argument against Nuclear Deterrence.” The Journal of Religious Ethics, Vol. 13, No. 2 (Fall, 1985), pp. 279-297. 
"If part of your... be a massive attack."

<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="line-height: 150%;">Underview:</span>**<span style="line-height: 150%;"> Consequentialism would prohibit nuclear possession.</span></span>
First, false alarms in regional arms races cause nuclear war. 
Perkovich, George. //Nuclear Proliferation//. Foreign Policy, No. 112 (Autumn, 1998), pp. 12-23. 
"However, it is the very... launch nuclear warheads."

Second, nukes fueled by liquid propellant are accident-prone. 
Rajaraman, R. (Professor of Theoretical Physics School of Physical Sciences Jawaharlal Nehru University). //Nuclear Weapons in South Asia Risks and Their Reduction,// Pugwash Workshop on South Asian Security, November 2002. [[http://www.pugwash.org/reports/rc/Rajaraman.pdf]]. 
"There have been no... are on ready alert."

Next, early warning systems are easily hacked by terrorists to create false alarms. 
Fritz, Jason. “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control.” The International Commission on Nuclear Non-Proliferation. [[http://www.icnnd.org/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]]. 
"Cyber terrorists could cause... readily found on the internet."

Nuclear war means extinction. 
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Michael Hogan, The Nuclear Freeze Campaign, 1994, p. 52</span>
"In the fall of 1983... large number of scientists."

And, nuclear weapons can’t deter biological weapons use. 
Koblentz, Gregory. “Pathogens as Weapons: The International Security Implications of Biological Warfare.” International Security, Vol. 28, No. 3 (Winter, 2003 - Spring, 2004), pp. 84-122. The MIT Press. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/4137478]] 
"Biological weapons are... would be ineffective."








==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
== == 
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Deterrence AC (Walt Whitman Update)</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Black's Law Dictionary defines //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">criminal-justice system</span>//.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Garner, Bryan A. [Editor-in-Chief]. //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Black’s Law Dictionary</span>//, Seventh Ed. 1999. Pg. 381.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">“The collective institutions… and parole officers.”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">V – Morality</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">VC – Consequentialism</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Respect for the end-status of persons mandates consequentialism.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Rakowski, Eric. “Taking and Saving Lives,” Columbia Law Review, Vol. 93, No. 5, (Jun., 1993), pp. 1063-1156. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1122960]]</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">“On one side… kill to do so.”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">I contend that punishing juveniles as adults in the criminal justice system deters future crime.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">**First,** numerous empirical studies confirm that juveniles rationally respond to incentives and thus can be deterred. Yahya 1:</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Yahya, Moin A. [Assistant Professor of Law, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada. J.D., George Mason University School of Law, 2003. Ph.D. (Economics), University of Toronto, 2000]. Deterring Roper's Juveniles: Using a Law and Economics Approach to Show that the Logic of Roper Implies that Juveniles Require the Death Penalty More Than Adults. Dickinson School of Law, Penn State Law Review. Summer 2006.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">“Returning to smoking… juveniles can be deterred.”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">**Second, general deterrence.** The adult criminal justice system empirically deters crime while r**<span style="font-weight: normal;">ehabilitation fails; the increase in juvenile crime is directly attributable to a decrease in punishment. </span>** **<span style="font-weight: normal;">Yahya 2 cites Levitt:</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">**<span style="font-weight: normal;">(Same cite as previous Yahya Card)</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">“Professor Levitt also… combat juvenile crime.”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="LDDebateCard"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Levitt ’98 quantifies the drop in violent crime</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">:</span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Levitt, Steven D. Juvenile Crime and Punishment. The Journal of Political Economy, Vol. 106, No. 6 (Dec., 1998), pp. 1156-1185.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">“This paper presents … are relatively lenient.”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">**<span style="font-weight: normal;">Higher incarceration rates decrease crime. Yahya 3 furthers:</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">(Same cite as earlier Yahya Card)</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">“The economist Steven Levitt … opportunities for juveniles.”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Levitt 2 identifies the causal warrant:</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">(Same cite as earlier Levitt Card)</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">“Evidence that a substantial … the operative force.”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">And, other studies confirm Levitt’s results. Yahya 4:</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">(Same cite as earlier Yahya Card)</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">“Other studies seem to … penalty as a punishment.”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">**Third, specific deterrence.** The adult system has a strong specific deterrent effect. Using a sample of 20, 542 youths in Washington, Hjalmarsson ‘9 finds that:</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Hjalmarsson, Randi [University of Maryland]. Juvenile Jails: A Path to the Straight and Narrow or to Hardened Criminality? Journal of Law & Economics, Copyright University of Chicago, November 2009. [[http://webspace.qmul.ac.uk/rhjalmarsson/juvenilejails_JLE.pdf]]. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">“Table 5 presents … or educational programs.”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Next, rehabilitation fails—recidivism rates for juvenile institutions are sky-high. Wilson ‘7:</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Wilson, Jane [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.] //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States</span>//, Roosevelt Review, 2007. <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.scribd.com/doc/19695235/Juvenile-Recidivism]]</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">“The American juvenile justice … justice system itself.”</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">The juvenile justice system does not deter. Levitt 3 concurs:</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">(Same cite as earlier Levitt Card)</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">“The current punitiveness… small in magnitude.”</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Increased recidivism has four impacts. <span style="color: black;">Wilson 2:</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">(Same cite as earlier Wilson Card)</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">“The effects of recidivism … cannot be understated.”</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Finally, there is no scientific connection between age and culpability for crimes. Bower ‘4:</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">Bower, Bruce. Science News Magazine, Vol. 165, No. 19. May 8, 2004. <</span>[[http://www.sciencenews.org/search/authored/id/10?for=&label_id=&author_id=10&edition_id=235&start=&end=&find_submit=Find]]></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">“UCLA’s Elizabeth Sowell … 16-year-olds as adults.”</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">ADDITIONAL CARD READ AGAINST HARVARD WESTLAKE</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Moreover, the issue of deterrence is not related to the place of confinement. Feld:</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Feld, Barry. “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy.” //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology</span>//, Vol. 88, No. 1 (Autumn, 1997), pp. 68-136, Northwestern University. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1144075]]. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">“Questions about young offenders’ … juvenile justice system.”</span>
== == 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative==