[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=Meadows 1AC= 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">O**bservation 1 is Inherency** </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, no disads- Troop drawdowns in South Korea are inevitable- confirmed by the DOD. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Lee 2010** Jong-Heon, United Press International Correspondent, 2/4/10, UPI, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2010/02/04/seoul_seeks_extended_us_protection/2951. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The United States had maintained….. the concept of "strategic flexibility." </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">But, South Korea’s wartime control delay ensures the continuance of U.S. military presence. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Seo and Lim 2010** Eunkyung Bomi Bloomberg staff writers, , Businessweek, http://www.businessweek.com/news/2010-06-26/u-s-s-korea-delay-wartime-control-transfer-to-2015-update1-.html. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">June 27 (Bloomberg) -- South Korea agreed ….. condemnation of North Korea. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Thus Sylvie and I present the following plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its ground troops from South Korea.</span>**


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Observation 2 is Subordination of the Body </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A. Prostitution </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Despite the “zero tolerance” policy and executive orders, military prostitution and immunity from prosecution for sex crimes continues in the context of Korea causing unspeakable violence against local women and children. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Kirk, 2008** (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Military prostitution continues….. during the Vietnam War. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And, despite recent reform efforts and policy change, US military presence in South Korea encourages prostitution. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Kloer 2010** Feb. 9 (Amanda, “Sex Trafficking High Around U.S. Military Bases Abroad” </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">http://humantrafficking.change.org/blog/view/sex_trafficking_high_around_us_military_bases_abroad) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Serving in the United States military…..U.S. government and Korean government policy </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B. Trafficking and Rape </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thousands of women are trafficked in South Korea as sex slaves. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Feminist News, 02** (Feminist News, September 9, 2002, Thousands of Women Forced Into Sexual Slavery For US Servicemen in South Korea) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Since the mid 1990s…. indentured servants," the report reads. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Human Trafficking is structured into the US-Korean relationship. Legal privileges, governmental protection, and material indulgence provide soldiers with an ample supply of fresh bodies of local women. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**K.I.W.C.T 2001** Korea International War Crimes Tribunal (New York Report on US Crimes in Korea 1945-2001 “Statistics on Crimes Committed by US Troops in south Korea” http://www.iacenter.org/Koreafiles/ktc-civilnetwork.htm.T.K) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Crimes committed by US soldiers…. only exacerbates the unfair situation. </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This results in rape and stigmatization. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Kirk and Francis in 2000** (Gwyn and Carolyn Bowen, Founding members of the East Asia-US Women’s Network Against Militarism. “Redefining Security: Women Challenge US Military Policy and Practice in East Asia” Berkeley Women’s Law Journal, 2000, v15, pg. 229) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The women work from early…. as "little brown f *g machines."(n105) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The effects of rape are compounded by South Korean cultural expectations. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Jensen 2009** (Jessica E, “Patriarchy and the Comfort Women”, http://www.hum.utah.edu/hgc/papers/jensen_jessica.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The Korean women internalized…the shock these women must have experienced. </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Rape and sexual violence is spirit murder and destroys the value to life. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Wing 1997**.(PROF LAW U IOWA, CONCEPTUALIZING VIOLENCE, 60 ALB. L. REV. 943) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The multiple effect of violence …. individual or group basis. </span>



<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C. Impacts </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This creates a method of domination and subordination throughout U.S. foreign policy. Military exploitation of women and children in South Korea creates a foundation for an expansion of patriarchal domination throughout the world. The 1AC is an act of withdrawal in explicit opposition to patriarchal control. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Kirk, 2008** (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The power dynamics of militarism ….. that reinforce gender stereotypes. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Patriarchy is the root of cause of all impacts </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Warren & Cady 1996** (Karen & Duane, “Feminism and Peace: Seeing Connections”, Hypatia Volume: 9. Issue: 2, pp 4, DJ </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Operationalized, the evidence of patriarchy ….. in regional, national and global contexts. </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Observation 3 is Solvency </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The United States abuses its status as “guardian” and allows a self-interested South Korean government to sacrifice women in the name of masculine security. The 1AC is crucial to set an example of ending the sacrifice of the individual in the name of military security objectives. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Moon 1997** Katharine H.S., Department of Political Science and Chair of Asian Studies @ Wellesley College, “Sex Among Allies: Military Prostitution in U.S./Korea Relations”, 1997, Columbia University Press </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">U.S.-Korea kijich'on prostitution …..bury them more deeply in silence. </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Legal reforms fail and the governments have already taken a stance against sex-trafficking within the public sphere but military camp town prostitution still slips through the cracks- the plan is critical to end status quo hypocrisy and open avenues of change. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Dujisin 2009**, Zoltan, July 7 2009, “Prostitution Thrives with US Military Presence”, Inter Press Service News Agency, http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=47556 </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Since 1945, U.S. troops ……hail from Southeast Asian countries. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Our conception of power relations enables transformative possibilities for emancipation that breaks down the oppressor/oppressed dichotomy and opens up space for alternative voices and silenced perspectives to work within the state and create realistic change </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**White 1992**, JD @ Harvard Law, (Lucie, 77 Cornell L. Rev. 1499, Sept) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The second reason that ….. microdynamics of everyday life. </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Observation 4 is our Framework- The role of the Ballot is to endorse the policy option with the best methodology. </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Feminism is the best method- </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Debating foreign policy without examining masculine assumptions is flawed. A feminist analysis is a prerequisite to solving conflicts. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Enloe 2000** (Cynthia Enloe, professor of government and women’s studies at Clark University, Masculinity As Foreign Policy Issue, THE PROGRESSIVE RESPONSE, Volume 5, Number 36 October 2000.) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Foreign policy is debated ….. Defense Department came up with an “alternative.” </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Traditional international relation theories have failed us – status quo military presence in Asia is an extension of a militaristic mindset that focuses on security at the expense of more personal forms of suffering. Any productive investigation into this year’s topic must begin with an interrogation of this force through a gendered lens. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Tickner 1992 (**J. Anne Tickner, Associate Professor of Political Science at the College of the Holy Cross, GENDER IN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, 1992, https://wwwc.cc.columbia.edu/sec/dlc/ciao/book/tickner/tickner12.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">The dramatic events of the late 1980s …..the way in which we think about and engage in international politics are dismantled. </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt; line-height: 115%;">Finally, vote affirmative for our method and our concrete political proposal. Demands on the state are necessary for reform, while radical gestures ensure the continuation of the status quo. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Nussbaum 1999,** (Martha, Distinguished Service Professor of Law and Ethics at the University of Chicago, 2-22-1999, ‘The New Republic,’ http://www.akad.se/Nussbaum.pdf, Acessed 6/25/10) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">YOU </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">In Butler, resistance is always imagined as personal, ….. Feminism demands more and women deserve better. </span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]