[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

Observation 1: Inherency 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">U.S. Naval presence in East Asia is staying  </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">James </span><span class="cite">Kraska</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 20</span><span class="cite">10 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(“China Set for Naval Hegemony”, C ommander James Kraska, JAGC, U.S. Navy, serves as the Howard S. Levie Chair of Operational Law at the U.S. Naval War College and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/06/china-ready-to-dominate-seas]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 5/6/10, accessed 9/28/10) </span>
China’s newly discovered naval base…<span class="underline"> potential effects of this naval base in Hainan. </span>

Advantage 1: The Dragon and the Eagle 
Naval Crisis between the United States and China is inevitable-Taiwan makes naval engagement likely 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Toshi </span><span class="cite">Yoshihara, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey </span>
<span class="underline">Taiwan remains the animating force<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">…</span> Washing- ton would dispatch a carrier from Japan in a contingency over Taiwan. </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>
Crisis over Japanese-Chinese territorial disputes makes naval intervention inevitable 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Toshi </span><span class="cite">Yoshihara, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey </span>
Beyond Taiwan…<span class="underline"> would be called upon as first responders. </span>
<span class="underline"> </span>
And, There’s a high risk of impact - Perception that U.S. Naval forces are constrained in central Asia coupled with Chinese nationalism makes even a minor maritime conflict escalate
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">James </span><span class="cite">Kraska</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 20</span><span class="cite">10 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(“China Set for Naval Hegemony”, C ommander James Kraska, JAGC, U.S. Navy, serves as the Howard S. Levie Chair of Operational Law at the U.S. Naval War College and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/06/china-ready-to-dominate-seas]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 5/6/10, accessed 9/28/10) </span>
Fifth, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif";">China is riding a wave of national overconfidenc</span></span>e…<span class="underline"> the US Navy alone will recalibrate the balance of sea power. </span>
<span class="underline"> </span>
Hypernationalism guarantees nuclear use. 
Scott <span class="cite">Moore</span>, Undergraduate Research Assistant, East Asia Nonproliferation Program, CNS, 10-18-<span class="cite">2006</span>, “Nuclear Conflict in the 21st Century: Reviewing the Chinese Nuclear Threat,” NTI, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_80.html]]</span>
It thus appears unlikely…<span class="underline"> which could include nuclear weapons</span>.

Extinction
**Straits Times** June 25 <span class="cite">2000</span> “Regional Fallout: No One Gains in War Over Taiwan”
Will a full-scale Sino-US war… for China puts sovereignty above everything else.

Removing U.S. Naval presence from Japan is key to prevent miscalculation and escalation between U.S. and China-Chinese forces directly perceive Yokosuka 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Toshi </span><span class="cite">Yoshihara, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey </span>
<span class="underline">Destruction of the supply system… bases come into play in Chinese operational thinking. </span>
<span class="underline"> </span>
Advantage 2: The Assassins Mace 
Presence of U.S. naval forces causes China to create anti access weapon systems to counteract U.S. naval superiority 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Andre </span><span class="cite">Damon</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="cite">2006</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“Pentagon report targets China as a military threat”, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.wsws.org/articles/2006/jun2006/chin-j21.shtml]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, accessed 10/17/10)-Wey </span>
<span class="underline">A principal component…</span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif";"> Japan</span></span><span class="underline">, India, Indonesia, Vietnam and Mongolia. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The DF-21D anti ship ballistic missile is a key component of this strategy  </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">James </span><span class="cite">Kraska</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 20</span><span class="cite">10 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(“China Set for Naval Hegemony”, C ommander James Kraska, JAGC, U.S. Navy, serves as the Howard S. Levie Chair of Operational Law at the U.S. Naval War College and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/06/china-ready-to-dominate-seas]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 5/6/10, accessed 9/28/10)</span><span class="underline"> </span>
<span class="underline">But China has made uncanny progress… ballistic missile reentry vehicle is daunting. </span>
<span class="underline"> </span>
Chinese conventional ballistic missile launches guarantees miscalculation and escalation 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Toshi </span><span class="cite">Yoshihara, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey </span>
The foregoing analysis… Beijing’s emerging missile strategy.

Chinese conventional anti ship ballistic missiles like the DF-21D causes pressure on Congress to fund conventional trident missiles
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Craig </span><span class="cite">Hooper</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and Christopher </span><span class="cite">Albon</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="cite">2010</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“Get Off the Fainting Couch”, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2010-04/get-fainting-couch]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, accessed 10/17/10)-Wey </span>
<span class="underline">By overlooking… could happen in as few as two years. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
Conventional tridents (CTMs) causes inadvertent nuclear war with Russia because their early warning systems can’t tell the difference between nuclear and conventional launch 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dennis M. </span><span class="cite">Gormley</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Senior Fellow at the Monterey Institute’s James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies in Washington, D.C. and a member of the faculty of the Graduate School of Public and International Affairs at the University of Pittsburgh) Fall </span><span class="cite">2009</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> “The Path to Deep Nuclear Reductions, Dealing With American Conventional Superiority,” Proliferation Papers, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ifri.org/files/Securite_defense/PP29_Gormley.pdf|www.ifri.org/files/Securite_defense/PP29_Gormley.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span class="underline">Where does Prompt Global Strike… conventional Trident’s funding </span>
<span class="underline"> </span>
Escalation and retaliation is guaranteed-Dead Hand
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bruce </span><span class="cite">Blair</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution, interviewed by Robert Siegle) October 8 </span><span class="cite">1993</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> “Researcher Says Russians Have Nuclear Doomsday Device,” All Things Considered, NPR </span>
ROBERT SIEGEL… before the break-up.

Extinction 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nick </span><span class="cite">Bostrum</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Professor of Philosophy, Yale University) </span><span class="cite">2002</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards” www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html. </span>
<span class="underline">A much greater…</span> encounter in the 21st century.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
And, We control the direction of uniqueness CTMs funding has been zeroed
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Elaine M. </span>**Grossman**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> reporter with Global Security Newswire, Sept. 22, 20</span>**10**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100922_3608.php-]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> accessed 10/13/10, JX </span>
WASHINGTON -- __The__ U.S__. Senate…__ at a safe house in Pakistan.

No risk of a turn—Our impact outweighs the turns on probability—experts agree
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Eugene </span><span class="cite">Miasnikov</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Senior Research Scientist, Center for Arms Control, Energy and Environmental Studies, Moscow Instittue of Physics and Tehnology) April “Long Range Precision-Guided Conventional Weapons: Implications for Strategic Balance, Arm Control and Non-Proliferation” http://www.icnnd.org/research/Miasnikov_Long_Range_Missiles-0921.pdf </span>
None of this is to say…<span class="underline"> after the end of the Cold War</span>. 

Observation 3: Solvency 
Yokosuka is key China perceives the strategic naval nature of the base and its importance of naval response
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Toshi </span><span class="cite">Yoshihara, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">It is clear… U.S. forward presence in Japan. </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span>
Japan key—Chinese perceptions of Japan as being the only base capable of taking in a carrier task force makes removal key—Guam does not accede the same fears 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Toshi </span><span class="cite">Yoshihara, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">The indispensability… permanent home port for carriers.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> </span>
U.S. Naval control in East Asia is ending removal now prevents conflict 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">James </span><span class="cite">Kraska</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 20</span><span class="cite">10 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(“China Set for Naval Hegemony”, C ommander James Kraska, JAGC, U.S. Navy, serves as the Howard S. Levie Chair of Operational Law at the U.S. Naval War College and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/06/china-ready-to-dominate-seas]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 5/6/10, accessed 9/28/10) </span>
<span class="underline">While the United States…</span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif";"> maintain sea control in Asia.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span>
And, we’ll preempt you China war defense
First, Chinese military doctrine guarantees escalation 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Toshi </span><span class="cite">Yoshihara, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">It is clear… operating in a theoretical vacuum. </span>

And, Large number of conventional ballistic missiles making U.S. bases useless in times of crisis 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Toshi </span><span class="cite">Yoshihara, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">The exact size of the DF-21… attacking U.S. regional bases.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;">54 </span>
<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> </span>
And, China will utilizes a deterrence via intimidation method to force Japan to kickout U.S. military forces in times of crisis 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Toshi </span><span class="cite">Yoshihara, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">One tactic that Zhao… U.S. use of naval bases in Japan. </span>

Economic interdependence does not prevent war—American Saber rattlers will call for war to 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Andre </span><span class="cite">Damon</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="cite">2006</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“Pentagon report targets China as a military threat”, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.wsws.org/articles/2006/jun2006/chin-j21.shtml]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, accessed 10/17/10)-Wey </span>
<span class="underline">This formulation…</span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif";"> the specter of world war.</span></span><span class="underline"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]