[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
__//**Greenhill Rd 1**//__

<span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">v-morality </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Intuitionism is not an appropriate basis for ethical theory, because it cannot resolve ethical conflict. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Kieran Setiya, University of Pittsburgh, “Does Moral Theory Corrupt the Youth?,” 9 </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Tahoma; mso-bidi-font-size: 9.0pt;">How does this...</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Tahoma; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">their previous views. </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Instead, moral theory should be based in the demands of practical reason. The will has normative force because it unconditionally good. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Immanuel Kant, //Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals//, 4:393-4:395 (page numbers from Royal Prussian Academy Collection of the Complete Works of Immanuel Kant). </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Nothing can possibly…determine its value. </span>

<span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Cr-Treating People as ends in themselves </span>

<span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">I defend Global Zero. </span>

<span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Advantage 1 is deontology </span>
[[#_Toc144825569]][[#_Toc144825629]][[#_Toc144885985]][[#_Toc145593588]][[#_Toc145595405]]<span style="font-family: Cambria; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">**.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences Author(s): Steven Lee Source: Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 549-566 Published by: The University of Chicago Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381037 Accessed: 06/07/2009 00:35. </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">First, the vast…is no consent. </span>


<span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Advantage 2 is terrorism </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-no-proof: yes;">Terrorists are able to steal nuclear weapons with relative ease. </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-no-proof: yes;">Candell, Steven. </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">. <span style="mso-no-proof: yes;">2008</span>. <span style="mso-no-proof: yes;">Director of Development and Public Affairs for the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation. Huffington Post. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-no-proof: yes;">But it may come as a suprise…ever found at the lab.” </span>


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">No significant impediments stand in the way of terrorist. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Chesney, Robert [Law clerk to Lewis A. Kaplan, J.D. Harvard Law] National Insecurity: Nuclear Material Availability And The Threat Of **Nuclear Terrorism,** Loyola of Los Angeles International & Comparative Law Review November, 1997 20 Loy. L.A. Int'l & Comp. L.J. 29. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Nor would funding…to be revealed. </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Terrorists will stop at nothing to get nuclear weapons – they have the incentive to use it – this is a religious duty to them, </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-no-proof: yes;">Linzer, Dafna</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">. <span style="mso-no-proof: yes;">2004</span>. <span style="mso-no-proof: yes;">"Nuclear Capabilities May Elude Terrorists." National Security Reporter for the Washington Post. </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Without sophisticated laboratories…Russia and Pakistan. </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The impact of an act of nuclear terror would be devastating. It could kill millions and result in escalating global conflict. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Mohamed Sid-Ahmed</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;"> [“Extinction!” Al- Ahram 26 August - 1 September 2004 Issue No. 705] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">A nuclear attack…all be losers </span>


<span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Advantage 3 is Accidents. </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">There is empirically a risk of a nuclear accident even for the most developed countries, </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">John Leslie, The End of the World: The Science and Ethics of Human Extinction. London and New York: Routledge, 1996. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">The term ‘accidental nuclear war’…weapons per year. </span>


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">An accidental launch would lead to retaliatory strikes and extinction within half an hour. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]], Two minutes to launch, the American prospect, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: SimSun; mso-fareast-language: ZH-CN; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">2/26/01. </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: SimSun; mso-fareast-language: ZH-CN; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">The bitter disputes…checklist, by note.” </span>




<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">Advantage 4 is conventional war. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Empirically nuclear proliferation increases the risk of conventional war – high costs encourage conflict. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">Kapur ‘7 (S. Paul, Associate Prof. Strategic Research Department – Naval War College, “Dangerous Deterrent: Nuclear Weapons Proliferation and Conflict in South Asia”, p. 171) </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">My study’s findings…likelihood of conflict. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Nuclear disarmament does not mean that there will be more conventional wars </span>**
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-no-proof: yes;">Blechman, Barry</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">. <span style="mso-no-proof: yes;">No Date Given</span>. <span style="mso-no-proof: yes;">WHY WE NEED TO ELIMINATE NUCLEAR WEAPONS—AND HOW TO DO IT </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-no-proof: yes;">Barry M. Blechman co-founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center and a Stimson Distinguished Fellow focused on nuclear disarmament. No date given, but definitely 2009 or later based on dates used in article. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Nor does nuclear…to the carnage. </span>


__//**Greenhill Rd 3**//__

v-morality

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**In situations where lives are in conflict even a strict deontologist would say that sacrificing individuals does not deny the unconditional value of rational beings**</span>


<span style="display: inline !important; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Kantian Consequentialism By David Cummiskey Published by Oxford University Press US, 1996 ISBN 0195094530, 9780195094534 192 pages</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 18px;">"In such a situation...to save many"</span>

cr-protection of rights


<span style="font-size: 9pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Advantage 1 is Nuclear terrorism (same cites from the the AC in one rd)</span>



<span style="font-size: 9pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Advantage 2 is accidents (same cards from first case)</span>



<span style="font-size: 9pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Advantage 3 is Conventional War</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Nuclear weapons increase the likelihood and bloodiness of conventional war,** </span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">P.R. Chari, ‘Nuclear Restraint, Nuclear Risk Reduction, and the Security-Insecurity Paradox inSouth Asia’ in: Michael Krepon (ed.), Nuclear Risk Reduction in South Asia (New York 2004),</span>





<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Kargil conflict...</span>was a near thing.


Advantage 4 is irrational leaders.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Nuclear deterrence fails because leaders are irrational,** </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Barry Wolf. “When the Weak Attack the Strong: Failures of Deterrence.” 1991. [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/notes/N3261/]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Third, leaderships that...prospect of nuclear retaliation.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 9px;">**Deterrence fails.** </span>
[<span style="font-size: 9pt;">1] Nuclear Proliferation and Counter-Proliferation: Policy Issues and Debates Barry R. Schneider Mershon International Studies Review, Vol. 38, No. 2. (Oct., 1994), pp. 209-234. Stable URL: http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=10791760%28199410%2938%3A2%3C209%3ANPACPI%3E2.0.CO%3B2-X Mershon International Studies Review is currently published by The International Studies Association. </span>


<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Taking on the pro-proliferationists,...</span><span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 18px;">interference from third parties?</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Nuclear weapons do not deter radical leaders.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Cropsey, Seth. 1994. The Only Credible Deterrent; Foreign Affairs; Graduated from Harvard-St. George School, Chicago, IL and St. John's College and received his M.A. from Boston College. From 1977-1980, he worked as a reporter for Fortune magazine, covering U.S. private enterprise and public policy. Served as Deputy Undersecretary of the Navy during both the Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush Presidential administrations, and in 1991, was the principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict; also was Director of the Heritage Foundation's Asia Studies Center and as the First Departmental Chairman and Professor of the George C. Marshall European Center for Security Studies in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, and joined the George W. Bush Administration as the director of the International Broadcasting Bureau.</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The weapons of...a credible deterrent.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**And, this leads to extinction.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">1983 (Ehrlich PR, Harte J, Harwell MA, Raven PH, Sagan C, Woodwell GM, Berry J, Ayensu ES, Ehrlich AH, Eisner T, “Long -term biological consequences of nuclear war” Pub Med, < http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6658451?ordinalpos -1&itool EntrezSystem2.PEntrez.Pubmed.Pubmed_ResultsPanel.Pubmed_RVDocSum>) </span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Subfreezing temperatures, low...cannot be excluded.</span>


==Negative==


//__**Greenhill Rd 2**__//

v-m
cr-protection of rights

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-ansi-language: EN-US;">**In situations where lives are in conflict even a strict deontologist would say that sacrificing individuals does not deny the unconditional value of rational beings**</span>
Kantian Consequentialism By David Cummiskey Published by Oxford University Press US, 1996 ISBN 0195094530, 9780195094534 192 pages


<span style="font-size: 9pt;">"In such a situation...to save many" </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-ansi-language: EN-US;">**There are four reasons why nuclear weapons cause more deterrence than conventional weapons.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Feldman, Shai. 2007. “Nuclear Weapons and Arms Control in the Middle East”; Center for Science and International Affairs.</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">"Effective deterrence requires...state's nuclear weapons."</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 16px;">**Deterrence good because it solves great power wars.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">Bruno Tertrais (Senior Research Fellow, Fondation pour la Recherche Strategique), “The Illogic of Zero”, THE WASHINGTON QUARTERLY, Center for Strategic and International Studies, APRIL 2010. http://wiki.victorybriefs.com/downloads/0816/Tertrais_10_The_llogic_of_Zero.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The equivalent destructive...no economic rationality.</span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]