[[toc]]
=Cite Requests= 
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">For any aff cites email Daniela Mintz: [[mailto:damintz95@gmail.com|damintz95@gmail.com]]</span>
For any neg cites email Paula Zampietro: [[mailto:pzamp94@gmail.com|pzamp94@gmail.com]]

If Paula doesn't answer hit up Mintz for neg cites

=Affirmative= 
==Counternarcotics== 
===__**Sophmore Hoedown 1AC**__=== 
Plan:
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The United States federal government should end its counternarcotics police presence activity in Afghanistan.</span>**
Contention 1: The Status quo

The U.S. government is committed to new ineffective Counternarcotic policies
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Caulkins et al. 10</span></span> (Jonathan. Prof, Operations Research & Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon. Fmr Dir, RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center. Mark Kleiman. Prof, Public Policy. Director, Drug Policy Analysis Program. UCLA. Jonathan Kulick. Advisor, State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration. Fmr Dir of Studies, Georgian Foundation for Strategic & Int’l Studies. “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June. NYU Center on International Cooperation.<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; font-size: 8pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/Lead%20Page%20PDF/sherman_drug_trafficking.pdf]]</span>)**

**<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">New U.S. government policies</span>__</span>__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">, reversing…</span>__<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">, warlords, and corrupt officials.</span>__</span>**



These efforts make opium production in Afghanistan inevitable

**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Caulkins et al. 10</span></span> (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan. Prof, Operations Research & Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon. Fmr Dir, RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center. Mark Kleiman. Prof, Public Policy. Director, Drug Policy Analysis Program. UCLA. Jonathan Kulick. Advisor, State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration. Fmr Dir of Studies, Georgian Foundation for Strategic & Int’l Studies. “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June. NYU Center on International Cooperation. <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/Lead%20Page%20PDF/sherman_drug_trafficking.pdf]]</span>)</span>**

**<span class="DebateUnderline">__It does not follow__</span>, however<span class="DebateUnderline">__, that one can generalize from … compared to other potential producers and the continuity of demand.__</span>**


Specifically, recycling ensures major opium producers stay centered in Afghanistan
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Hari 9</span></span> (Johann, staff writer for The Independent, //The Huffington Post,// Feb 10-9)**
**Take a bribe, or take a bullet. The Interior Secretary, Juan …<span class="DebateUnderline"> __<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">produces more violence, as an endless pool</span> of young men hungry <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">for the profits step into the vacuum</span> and fight off their rivals.__</span>**


Worldwide consumption of Opium is also inevitable
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Caulkins et al. 10</span></span> (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan. Prof, Operations Research & Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon. Fmr Dir, RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center. Mark Kleiman. Prof, Public Policy. Director, Drug Policy Analysis Program. UCLA. Jonathan Kulick. Advisor, State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration. Fmr Dir of Studies, Georgian Foundation for Strategic & Int’l Studies. “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June. NYU Center on International Cooperation. <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/Lead%20Page%20PDF/sherman_drug_trafficking.pdf]]</span></span>)**

**<span class="underline0">The volume of heroin consumed depends far less on … reducing poppy growing but did not reduce the volume of heroin exports by even a close-to-comparable proportion</span>. 30**


Contention 2: The Large Opium Producers


Counter narcotic efforts strengthen the taliban – multiple reasons

a. Producer profit
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Caulkins et al. 10</span></span> (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan. Prof, Operations Research & Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon. Fmr Dir, RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center. Mark Kleiman. Prof, Public Policy. Director, Drug Policy Analysis Program. UCLA. Jonathan Kulick. Advisor, State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration. Fmr Dir of Studies, Georgian Foundation for Strategic & Int’l Studies. “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June. NYU Center on International Cooperation. <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/Lead%20Page%20PDF/sherman_drug_trafficking.pdf]]</span>)</span>**

**Hence, <span class="DebateUnderline">__interventions that reduce Afghan opium or … of governance and security.__</span>**


b. trafficker profit
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Caulkins et al. 10</span></span> (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan. Prof, Operations Research & Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon. Fmr Dir, RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center. Mark Kleiman. Prof, Public Policy. Director, Drug Policy Analysis Program. UCLA. Jonathan Kulick. Advisor, State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration. Fmr Dir of Studies, Georgian Foundation for Strategic & Int’l Studies. “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June. NYU Center on International Cooperation. <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/Lead%20Page%20PDF/sherman_drug_trafficking.pdf]]</span>)</span>**

**Second, a line of reasoning suggests that <span class="DebateUnderline">__tougher <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">drug control</span> … for rural households__</span>.**


c. political capital with the population

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Brown 09</span> **(Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21<span style="font-size: 10pt;">st</span> Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute. “The Drug Economy in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and Military Conflict in the Region.” __Narco-Jihad: Drug Trafficking and Security in Afghanistan and Pakistan__. National Bureau of Asian Research Special Report #20. December. <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/NBR_NarcoJihad_DrugTraffickingAndSecurity_AfghanistanPakistan.pdf]]</span>)**

**Crucially, however,** __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the benefits that the Taliban …</span>__**versus Ghilzai Pashtuns.37**




Counternarcotics is the critical internal link as to whether the Taliban become strong and threatening or hide in caves and die out
<span style="background-color: aqua;">Brown 10</span> **(<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute “Shooting up: Counterinsurgency and the War on Drugs” <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=5N95OLwIcUYC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Shooting+Up.+counter+narcotics&source=bl&ots=uE0iJAY0OF&sig=-v3jrleddaaHxef1LM4jo7DTRMU&hl=en&ei=RPB2TNqlI4Wdlgel7rWvCg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CCkQ6AEwBQ#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span></span>**
**<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in;">__The financial <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">profits that belligerents reap from involvement in the illicit economy can range</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span>__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;"> belligerents often can count on continued support from the population</span>__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>**




Taliban power leads to Afghanistan takeover
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Brown 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute. “The Drug Conflict Nexus in South-Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits & Afghanistan.” //he// Afghanistan-Pakistan Theater: Militant Islam, Security, and Stability. May. <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]</span></span>)**

**Perhaps nowhere in the world does <span class="DebateUnderline">__the presence of a … narcotics suppression.__</span>**


This results in escalating wars throughout Central Asia and the Middle East, Indopak nuclear use, and a Russia-China alliance against the US
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 7</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]</span>)</span>**

**Although disliked and despised in many quarters, <span class="DebateUnderline">__the <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Taliban </span>…__</span> «Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!**


And, war in Central Asia is the most probable scenario for extinction
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Blank 2k</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen J. Blank, Expert on the Soviet Bloc for the Strategic Studies Institute, 2000, “American Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region”, World Affairs. 9-22)</span>**

**Thus <span class="DebateUnderline">__many structural conditions for conventional …willing proxies capable of settling the situation__</span>.(77)**

Contention 3: The Small scale producers

Interdiction efforts strengthen large scale producers and force small scale producers to reallocate- two reasons:


a. they are explicitly targeted

<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">Brown 10</span> **(Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21<span style="font-size: 10pt;">st</span> Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute. “The Drug Conflict Nexus in South-Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits & Afghanistan.”//__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">he </span>__//__Afghanistan-Pakistan Theater: Militant Islam, Security, and Stability__. May.<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; font-size: 10pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]</span>)**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paradoxically, </span>**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">counternarcotics efforts </span>… them against the state and drug competition.__



b. large scale producers are more capable of adapting
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Caulkins et al. 10</span></span> (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan. Prof, Operations Research & Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon. Fmr Dir, RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center. Mark Kleiman. Prof, Public Policy. Director, Drug Policy Analysis Program. UCLA. Jonathan Kulick. Advisor, State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration. Fmr Dir of Studies, Georgian Foundation for Strategic & Int’l Studies. “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June. NYU Center on International Cooperation. <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/Lead%20Page%20PDF/sherman_drug_trafficking.pdf]]</span>)</span>**

**Some of these “<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">warlord” enterprises</span>__</span>, especially <span class="DebateUnderline">__…<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;"> share for the warlords.</span>__</span>**


We’ll isolate specific scenarios


1. Burma


Small scale producers flee to Burma
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Brown 10</span></span> (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute. “The Drug Conflict Nexus in South-Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits & Afghanistan.” he Afghanistan-Pakistan Theater: Militant Islam, Security, and Stability. May.<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/]]</span></span>05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf)**


**Despite having the least negative impact on …<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;"> of Afghanistan’s neighbors.</span>__</span>**


Burmese opium production cause CCP lashout
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Brown 10</span></span> (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute. “The Drug Conflict Nexus in South-Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits & Afghanistan.” he Afghanistan-Pakistan Theater: Militant Islam, Security, and Stability. May.<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics]]</span></span>_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf)**

**<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">China would be unhappy with the rise … Chinese Communist Party in the periphery.</span>__</span>**


Nuclear war
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Renxing 05 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">San Renxing Aug 03, 2005 Epoch Times Staff “The CCP’s Last-ditch Gamble: Biological and Nuclear War”(citing Sun Yat-sen, revolutionary leader that led the establishment of the Republic of China, and Yang Shangkun, previous President of the People's Republic of China and was permanent Vice-chair of the Central Military Commission) < <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.epochtimes.com/news/5-8-3/30975.html]]</span>></span>**
**<span class="DebateUnderline">__Since <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">the Party’s life is “above all else</span>… and <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">gamble with their lives.</span>__</span>**



2. Pakistan

Small scale producers flee to Pakistan
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Brown 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute. “The Drug Conflict Nexus in South-Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits & Afghanistan.” he Afghanistan-Pakistan Theater: Militant Islam, Security, and Stability. May. <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]</span>)</span>**

**<span class="underline0"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">The extensive drug-trade network</span>, …</span> the shift of cultivation to Pakistan.**


This switch is the only scenario for an Al Qaeda safe haven
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Brown 10</span></span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute. “The Drug Conflict Nexus in South-Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits & Afghanistan.” he Afghanistan-Pakistan Theater: Militant Islam, Security, and Stability. May. <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]</span>)</span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">If</span>__</span> extensive poppy <span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">cultivation shifted to Pakistan</span>____, …__</span>not premobilized, and pernicious political entrepreneurs were not at the ready to capitalize on social discontent.</span>**


Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia
Pitt, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-</span> //a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,”//<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>**



**<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a car packed with explosives into a jeep …The Obama administration appears to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all.</span>**


3. Asia


Small scale producers flee to Central Asian republics
Brown 10 **(Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute. “The Drug Conflict Nexus in South-Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits & Afghanistan.” //__he__//__Afghanistan-Pakistan Theater: Militant Islam, Security, and Stability__. May.<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]</span>)**

**<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in;">Under a second scenario<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">, __opium__</span> __…__ and spread to other parts of the country as well. 30</span>**


Causes an oil conflict

Brown 10 **(Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute. “The Drug Conflict Nexus in South-Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits & Afghanistan.” //__he__//__Afghanistan-Pakistan Theater: Militant Islam, Security, and Stability__. May.<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]</span>)**

**<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0in 0.25in;">Finally, __<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">a shift of opium </span>poppy <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">cultivation to </span>… their already minimal <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">cooperation</span>__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">.</span></span>**




This emboldens Russia and Iran to challenge the United States
**<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in;">Nyquist 8/21/2009 – J.R., Regular geopolitical columnist for Financial Sense Online<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0821.html]]</span></span>**

**<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in;">In this way <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Russia strengthens Iran while </span>… <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">state decided to act informally, </span>which it did."</span>**


Specifically, Russian empowerment causes nuclear war and makes all conflicts more likely
**<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in;">Cohen 1/25/96 - Ariel, Senior Policy Analyst @ Heritage (Heritage Foundation Reports, l/n)</span>**

**<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in;">Much is at stake in Eurasia for the U.S. and its allies. Attempts to …<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;"> Islamic militancy more difficult.</span></span>**


Iran aggression causes war with Israel
**<span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 10</span></span> (Christopher, columnist for Vanity Fair and Slate, The Australian, 5/20/10, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/opinion/irans-goal-of-regional-hegemony/story-e6frg6zo-1225868866287]]</span>) JPG**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On May 15, we were subjected to a tirade …</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;"> deliver them.</span></span>**


That conflict will include the use of bioweapons
**<span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Brom ’05</span></span> (Shlomo ,- thirty-year veteran of the IDF, currently a guest scholar in the Center for Conflict Analysis and Prevention “Getting Ready for Nuclear Iran” <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub629.pdf]]</span>)**

**<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"><span class="underline">If <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">an Israeli strike in </span>… Israeli <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">attack</span> in Iran.</span></span>**


Extinction
<span style="background-color: aqua;">Ochs 02</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]</span>]</span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Of all the weapons of mass destruction, …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is the highest of all crimes.</span></span>**




Contention 4: Solvency

Pulling out solves

<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">Caulkins et al. 10</span> **(Jonathan. Prof, Operations Research & Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon. Fmr Dir, RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center. Mark Kleiman. Prof, Public Policy. Director, Drug Policy Analysis Program. UCLA. Jonathan Kulick. Advisor, State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration. Fmr Dir of Studies, Georgian Foundation for Strategic & Int’l Studies. “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June. NYU Center on International Cooperation.<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; font-size: 10pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/Lead%20Page%20PDF/sherman_drug_trafficking.pdf]]</span>)**

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">While anticorruption efforts can help counter-narcotics enforcement efforts, …<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;"> less conducive to overlapping jurisdiction than law enforcement agencies</span></span>__**. 43**



Any form of counternarcotic fail, we need to end it
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Caulkins et al. 10</span></span> (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan. Prof, Operations Research & Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon. Fmr Dir, RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center. Mark Kleiman. Prof, Public Policy. Director, Drug Policy Analysis Program. UCLA. Jonathan Kulick. Advisor, State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration. Fmr Dir of Studies, Georgian Foundation for Strategic & Int’l Studies. “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June. NYU Center on International Cooperation. <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/Lead%20Page%20PDF/sherman_drug_trafficking.pdf]]</span>)</span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__Experience and analysis agree that drug-trafficking problems …<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;"> “Do no harm</span>,” or, at least, “Do as little harm as possible.”__</span></span>**


Contention 5: Pre-empts
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Threats are real </span>
Schweller 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Randall L. Schweller, Associate Professor in the Department of Political Science at The Ohio State University, “Unanswered Threats A Neoclassical RealistTheory of Underbalancing,” International Security 29.2 (2004) 159-201, Muse]</span>**



===<span style="font-family: Georgia;">__New Taliban Takeover Cards-Meadows__</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Took out Taliban power = takeover (brown 10) and Morgan 07 cards and put in: </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Taliban power causes Iranian alliance with Afghani groups against the Taliban – results in civil war involving Pakistan, Iran and Saudi Arabia and creates a safe heaven for Al Qaeda </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 12pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Hillary Mann </span><span class="cite"><span style="background: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Leverett</span>**</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> is CEO of Strategic Energy and Global Analysis (STRATEGA), a political risk consultancy, 7/8 </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">20<span style="background: aqua;">10</span></span>**</span></span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.raceforiran.com/iran%E2%80%99s-strategic-stake-in-afghanistan-hillary-mann-leverett-in-foreign-policy]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Accessed 7.12.10</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">On Iran’s core interests in Afghanistan… <span style="font-size: 7pt;">largely because of American resistance to a broader opening to Iran. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">We’ll isolate several impacts - </span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">a. Central Asia </span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Central Asian instability will inevitably draw in major powers </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 12pt;">**<span style="background: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Peimani</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">PhD International Relations</span><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> 20<span style="background: aqua;">02</span> dr.</span>** <span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">Hooman Peimani has a PhD in International Relations with a focus on regional security from Queen’s University, Canada. As a researcher/analyst, he specializes in political, economic and military/security issues pertaining to West and South Asia. __<span style="color: black;">Failed Transition, Bleak Future: War and Instability in Central Asia and the Caucasus</span>__<span style="color: black;">, 142 http://books.google.com/books?id=MlxZjPQ9SFwC&pg=PP1&dq=“Failed+Transition,+Bleak+Future:+War+and+Instability+in+Central+Asia+and+the+Caucasus”&hl=en&ei=uO0nTK6EDcO88gbyiL3EDw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCUQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=The%20impact%20of%20war%20and%20instability%20in%20the%20Caucasus%20or%20Central%20Asia%20will%20not%20be%20confined%20to%20the%20countries%20immediately%20affected.%20Any%20local%20conflict&f=false</span> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="underline"><span style="background: aqua; font-weight: normal;">The impact of war and instability in</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> …</span><span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">implications for the security of many other countries in Asia and Europe.</span> </span></span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">This is the most likely scenario for extinction </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Blank 2k</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen J. Blank, Expert on the Soviet Bloc for the Strategic Studies Institute, 2000, “American Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region”, World Affairs. 9-22) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus </span>__many structural conditions…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>__<span style="background: aqua;">neither has willing proxies capable of settling the situation</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.(77) </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">b. al qaeda </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">a safe heaven in Afghanistan is the only scenario for a strike on the homeland. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: aqua;">Arkedis 2009</span></span> [Jim Arkedis, director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute, former counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service – October 23, Foreign Policy “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven?page=0,2 ty]</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">As deliberations about the … </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: aqua;">__<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">best bet is to deny al Qaeda the only physical space it can access</span>__</span></span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia;">. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">A domestic attack leads to nuclear retaliation against Russia and China – escalates to nuclear war</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: aqua;">Ayson 2010</span></span> (Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions, InformaWorld)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt;">But these two nuclear worlds—a … consultation from Washington that the latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide. </span>

===[[#Counternarcotics 2ACS-Addons-EU Addon]]2ACs=== 

====EU Add On==== 
**EU doesn’t want the US to continue the war on drugs- creates tension in the relationship**

**Weitz 7** (Richard, Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis at Hudson Institute, Apr 2, //Eurasia.net,// [[http://www.eurasianet.org/departments/insight/articles/eav040307.shtml]])
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in;">Hoping to stem burgeoning narcotics production... __on a regional counter-narcotics plan.__</span>

**War**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glaser 93 </span></span>(Charles, <span style="color: black;">professor in __the__ Elliott School of International Affairs and the Department of Political Science.</span> //International Security,// Vol 18, No. 1, Summer 1993)
<span style="margin-left: 14.25pt;"><span class="underline">However, although the lack of ...<span style="background: yellow;"> Europe’s future</span></span></span>

====AT Winning the War==== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">we are losing the war now </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Charles R. **<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Long</span>**, “We are Losing in Afghanistan” October 7th, 20**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">10</span>**, http://www.cw.ua.edu/2010/10/07/we-are-losing-in-afghanistan/ </span>
__<span style="background: aqua; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">We have now been losing the war in Afghanistan </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">… to protect this country from terrorists</span>__

====T-Substantial==== 

**Police is supervising and training**
Nina M. <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Serafino</span> -Specialist in International Security Affairs Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division March 30, 20<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">04</span> (Policing in Peacekeeping and Related Stability Operations: Problems and Proposed Solutions <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fas.org/man/crs/RL32321.pdf]]</span>)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">International civilian police forces have been used for a variety of purposes ....</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">the evolution of CivPol mandates and activities.)</span>
**Only DEA and FBI can train**
**__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Citizendium 8/13</span>__**/10 “U.S. government training of foreign police” online Encyclopedia <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.citizendium.org/wiki/U.S._government_training_of_foreign_police]]</span>>
__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">In the Foreign Assistance Act of 1973...</span>__ entered into before enactment of the amendment.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">DEA has 100 people</span></span>
<span class="cite"> <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat; font-size: 12pt;">Holton 10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chuck, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cbn.com/cbnnews/world/2010/April/DEA-Agents-Target-Afghanistans-Narco-Insurgency/]]</span>, date accessed: 6/23/2010) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 11.25pt;">AFGHANISTAN -- <span class="underline0">The Drug Enforcement....</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. The average sentence for those convicted is 20 years in prison. </span></span>

**FBI has 100 people**
**__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Asia Times</span>__**, October 4, 20**__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">03</span>__** < <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/South_Asia/EJ04Df04.html]]</span> >
__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">The FBI varies its ...</span>__Karachi and in the capital Islamabad.

**Presence is military posture**
**<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Dismukes, 94</span>** – representative of the Center for Naval Analyses to the London staff of the Commander in Chief, U.S. Naval Forces Europe. (Bradford, “National Security Strategy and Forward Presence: Implications
for Acquisition and Use of Forces,” March, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://cna.org/sites/default/files/research/2793019200.pdf]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The core of this analysis is a comparison of the .... Appendix A also provides the background to the discussion of force sizing and structure in the final section of the body of this paper.</span>

<span class="Underline">**In is within—we substantially reduce within the areas where the CN troops are**</span>
**<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Merriam Webster Online Dictionary, 06</span>** (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: black; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary?book=Dictionary&va=in]]</span>)
Main Entry: **__1in__** <span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Pronunciation: 'in, &n, &n Function: //preposition// Etymology: Middle English, from Old English; akin to Old High German //in// in, Latin //in,// Greek //en//</span>
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">1 a</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> -- __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">used as a function...</span>____<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">limits</span>__ <//in// the lake> <wounded //in// the leg> <//in// the summer></span>

<span class="Underline">**Substantial means important.**</span>
<span class="Underline"> <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Oxford Dictionary</span> of English, 20<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">05</span>, Oxford Reference Online, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.oxfordreference.com.proxy1.cl.msu.edu/views/ENTRY.html?entry=t140.e76634&srn=7&ssid=1046855207#FIRSTHIT]]</span> **Substantial** → adjective 1. **<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">of considerable importance</span>**...., human beings substantial.</span>


**Percentage definitions bad**
**__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Leo 08</span>__** (Kevin Leo **J.D. Candidate, Spring 2008, Hastings College of the Law. Hastings Business Law Journal Spring, 2008 4 Hastings Bus. L.J. 297 LEXIS)**
**In contrast,** __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">the court</span> ...__**context of the totality of the organization." <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.www2.lib.ku.edu:2048/us/lnacademic/frame.do?tokenKey=rsh-20.156249.8509902761&target=results_DocumentContent&reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1253667274610&returnToKey=20_T7405211855&parent=docview|n84]]</span>**

====Reform CP==== 

**We’ll read a card on this –**
**Supply side efforts fail, create higher incentives to enter the market**
<span class="Underline">Michael K. </span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Steinberg</span>__</span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">,</span> Joseph John </span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Hobbs, and</span>__</span><span class="Underline"> Kent </span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Mathewson</span>__</span><span class="Underline">, Assistant Professor of New College and Geography at Lousiana State University, Ph.D. Texas; Middle East, cultural and environmental geography, Associate Professor Department of Geography and Anthropology Louisiana State University, Oxford University Press, 20</span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">04</span>__</span><span class="Underline">, “Dangerous harvest: drug plants and the transformation of indigenous landscapes”, p25**<span style="font-weight: normal;"> [[http://www.questiaschool.com/read/103575775?title=Dangerous%20Harvest%3a%20Drug%20Plants%20and%20the%20Transformation%20of%20Indigenous%20Landscapes]]</span>**</span>

<span style="text-indent: .25in;">**a. taxation** </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Caulkins, et al</span> June 20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span>** [Jonathan P. Caulkins, Mark A.R. Kleiman, Jonathan D. Kulick, Caulkins is a professor of operations research and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University, Kleiman is a professor of public policy at the UCLA school of public affairs, and Kulick is the Director of studies at the Georgia Foundation of Strategic and International Studies, [“Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan,” NYU Center on International Cooperation, available at: [[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/]]] </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;">**__That <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">alternative livelihood </span>… to pay taxes__**. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
**b. recruiting force**
<span style="text-indent: .25in;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Berger</span>**, 20**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10 </span>** </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify; text-indent: 0.25in;">[Matthew, staff writer at IPS, “U.S. Taking New Tack on Afghan Poppies,” http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=50112] </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;">"**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">A good policy </span>…__**she said Monday. </span>
CB
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
**5. lack of microcredit**

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Brown 09</span>** (Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21<span style="font-size: 10pt;">st</span> Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute. “The Drug Economy in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and Military Conflict in the Region.” __Narco-Jihad: Drug Trafficking and Security in Afghanistan and Pakistan__. National Bureau of Asian Research Special Report #20. December. http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/NBR_NarcoJihad_DrugTraffickingAndSecurity_AfghanistanPakistan.pdf) </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Critical among the …exclusively in cities</span>__**.26 </span>


**6. land concentration**

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Brown 09</span>** (Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21<span style="font-size: 10pt;">st</span> Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute. “The Drug Economy in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and Military Conflict in the Region.” __Narco-Jihad: Drug Trafficking and Security in Afghanistan and Pakistan__. National Bureau of Asian Research Special Report #20. December. http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/NBR_NarcoJihad_DrugTraffickingAndSecurity_AfghanistanPakistan.pdf) </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;">Since 2001, **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">with …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> with legal crops.</span> </span>__**</span>


**7. Reform is impossible and makes failure in Afghanistan inevitable**
Phillip **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Smith</span>__**, December 29th, 20**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">09</span>__**, “Afghanistan: US Anti-Drug Strategy Lacking, State Department Report Finds,” [[http://stopthedrugwar.org/chronicle/2009/dec/29/afghanistan_us_antidrug_strategy]]
While **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">an effective </span>…farmers__**," he said.

====Consult NATO CP==== 

**Solvency deficit:** They will say no
**McMahon 06** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert McMahon 10/4/06 “NATO Official Says Counternarcotics Strategy Needed to Stabilize Afghanistan” <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/11600/nato_official_says_counternarcotics_strategy_needed_to_stabilize_afghanistan.html]]</span></span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">NATO’s Supreme Allied …Afghanistan</span>,”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jones said. </span>


**Solvency deficit**: delay
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black;">Gordon 86</span>**<span style="color: black;"> NATO Indecisiveness Delays Arms Projects </span> <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[@http://www.aviationnow.com]]</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">The inability of </span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-size: 22pt;">N</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">orth </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 22pt;">…</span>____<span style="color: black;">benefit both countries</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**No impact**- **Nato obsolete**
**__Guttman 5-1-09__** [Robert Guttman, Director of the Center on Politics & Foreign Relations (CPFR) at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, D.C. where he co-hosts a series of conferences on politics and foreign policy with the Financial Times newspaper group, “Happy 60th Birthday NATO; Time to Go Out of Business?”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-guttman/happy-60th-birthday-nato_b_181734.html]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the Soviet … **birthday and goodbye**</span>__**__.__**

**Nato collapse inevitable**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Walt, 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Stephen M., professor of political science at the University of Chicago, Winter 1998/ [The National Interest, Issue 54] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given these achievements…</span>__of military cooperation.__


====Obama Good Politics Link Turns==== 


**Plan is bipart**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Morgan 08 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Scott Morgan 9/2/08“Republicans Promise to Continue the Drug War” </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://stopthedrugwar.org/speakeasy/2008/sep/02/republicans_promise_continue_dru]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)
</span>__The human toll … offenses, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">who does</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">?</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>

**4. They would support the plan, they know dealing with poppies is a loser**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Washington Times</span></span>, 8/18/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span></span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Both Republicans and </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> supplier of heroin. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**5. Plan Popular republicans and military**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">LA Times</span></span> 7/20/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span></span> (“U.S. increasing counter-narcotics efforts in Afghanistan” http://articles.latimes.com/2009/jul/20/world/fg-dea-afghan20/3)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">counter-narcotics </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the country. </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Only a risk of the turn </span>**
David **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Schoenbrod</span>__</span>**, 19**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">93</span>__</span>**, Professor of Law, New York Law School, Adjunct Scholar, CATO Institute, “Power Without Responsibility,” p.95-96
__The president, who__ …**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> costs and benefits.</span>__ </span>**
<span class="Underline"> </span>


====Russia Relations DA==== 



**1. Relations have already been severed from counternarcotics**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Dupee</span>** Mathew **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">and Kauffman</span>** Sara 20**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10</span>** “In Afghanistan, Poppy Eradication Pits Russia vs. Nato” [[http://therearenosunglasses.wordpress.com/2010/04/28/in-afghanistan-poppy-eradication-pits-russia-vs-nato/|__http://therearenosunglasses.wordpress.com/2010/04/28/in-afghanistan-poppy-eradication-pits-russia-vs-nato/__]]
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Russian officials have </span>…[[@http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/1576/despite-little-success-in-colombia-some-u-s-officials-continue-to-push-crop-spraying-in-afghanistan|__to spray or not to spray?__]]__



**2. Relations are unsustainable**

**a. events**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Gvosdev ‘08 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Nikolas, Ph. D. Philosophy as Rhodes Scholar at St. Anthony’s College, Oxford, U.S. Foreign Policy Specialist; “Kosovo, Russia, and the Last Grasps of American Unipolarity”; Feb 25; http://www.takimag.com/site/article/kosovo_and_the_last_grasps_of_american_unipolarity/] </span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Kosovo is the </span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">growing business ties). </span>


**b. structural problems in the relationship**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Suslov ‘10 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dmitry V., Deputy Director for Research at the Council on Foreign and Defense Policy; “U.S.-Russia Relations After the New Start Treaty”; May 18; [[http://en.rian.ru/valdai_op/20100518/159060786.html]]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2. At the same time…</span> __against a rollback.__

**c. Obama**

**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Fly and Schmitt 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Fly is executive director of the Foreign Policy Institute, Schmitt is director of the Program of Advanced Studies at the American Enterprise Institute (Jamie Fly and Gary Schmitt “Obama is Making Bush’s Big Mistake on Russia” [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/03/22/obama_is_making_bush_s_big_mistake_on_russia]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Still in the midst …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> a Russian leader.</span>__


**3. Russia doesn’t have the ability to influence international politics enough to prevent global problems**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Rumer & Wallander, 3</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Eugene B. and Celeste A., CSIS and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, The Washington Quarterly, "Russia: Power in Weakness", [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/031101_ruseur_wallander.pdf]]) </span>

__A look beneath …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> a reliable partner.</span>__



==Afghanistan CIA== 



===MBA: 1AC=== 

**Plan text: The United States federal government should end its Central Intelligence Agency presence in Afghanistan.**



**Contention 1: the status quo**



**There is a large CIA presence in Afghanistan now**

Tom __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Engelhardt</span>__ and Nick __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Turse</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">,</span> January 10, 20__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span>,__ //Tom Engelhardt, co-founder of the American Empire Project, runs the Nation Institute's TomDispatch.com. He is the author of// The End of Victory Culture//, a history of the Cold War and beyond, as well as of a novel,// The Last Days of Publishing//. He also edited// The World According to TomDispatch: America in the New Age of Empire //(Verso, 2008), an alternative history of the mad Bush years.// //Nick Turse is the associate editor of TomDispatch.com and the winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction as well as a James Aronson Award for Social Justice Journalism. His work has appeared in the// Los Angeles Times, the Nation, In These Times, //and regularly at TomDispatch. Turse is currently a fellow at New York University's Center for the United States and the Cold War. He is the author of// The Complex: How the Military Invades Our Everyday Lives//(Metropolitan Books).// “The CIA Surges”, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/tom-engelhardt/the-cia-surges_b_417881.html

And here’s something ….<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">Blackwater-style mercenaries as well. </span>



**Withdrawal is inevitable – its more stable if it occurs now rather than later**

**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: fuchsia; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Finel</span> 0<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: fuchsia; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">9</span>**- Senior Fellow @ the American Security Project (8/20/09, Bernard, “An Alternative Strategy for Afghanistan,” ASP, <span style="color: black;">http://www.americansecurityproject.org/theflashpointblog/bernard-finel/2009/08/20/an-alternative-strategy-for-afghanistan/</span>)



<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">One of my great frustrations in becoming ….</span> __regime or a legitimate successor.__





**Contention 2: drug trade**



**The CIA’s presence in Afghanistan initiated the drug trade of opium and heroin and they continue to be the source of it.**

Peter Dale __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Scott,</span>__ April 12, 20__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span>__, “Opium, the CIA, and the Karzai Administration”, //Peter Dale Scott, a former Canadian diplomat and English Professor at the University of California, Berkeley, is the author of Drugs Oil and War, The Road to 9/11, and The War Conspiracy: JFK, 9/11, and the Deep Politics of War. His book, Fueling America's War Machine: Deep Politics and the CIA’s Global Drug Connection is in press, due Fall 2010 from Rowman & Littlefield,// History News Network, http://hnn.us/articles/125230.html

<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">Alfred McCoy's important new articlefor ….today in Iran and Baluchistan. </span>





**The CIA has empirically been the catalyst for drug production in Afghanistan**

Alfred W. __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">McCoy</span>,__ March 30, 20__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span>__, //Alfred W. McCoy is the J.R.W. Smail Professor of History at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He is the author of The Politics of Heroin: CIA Complicity in the Global Drug Trade, which probes the conjuncture of illicit narcotics and covert operations over half a century. His latest book, Policing America's Empire: The United States, the Philippines, and the Rise of the Surveillance State, explores the influence of overseas counterinsurgency operations on the spread of internal security measures at home,// “Can Anyone Pacify Afghanistan, the World’s Number One Narco-State?”, History News Network, http://www.hnn.us/articles/125034.html

__Opium first emerged….__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">Pashtun client regime in Kabul. </span>



**We’ll isolate several scenarios:**



**First, corruption**



**Drug trade is the root cause of corruption and Taliban power**

**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">NSN 8</span>** (National Security Network, http://www.nsnetwork.org/node/858, AD: 7/7/10)

In plain view of the ….__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">members, and buy support.</span>__



**Corruption kills government legitimacy**

**Caulkins et al. 10** (Jonathan. Prof, Operations Research & Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon. Fmr Dir, RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center. Mark Kleiman. Prof, Public Policy. Director, Drug Policy Analysis Program. UCLA. Jonathan Kulick. Advisor, State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration. Fmr Dir of Studies, Georgian Foundation for Strategic & Int’l Studies. “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June. NYU Center on International Cooperation. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/Lead%20Page%20PDF/sherman_drug_trafficking.pdf]]</span>)

__Corruption creates several__ __….__ the lawful government.



**Perception of government illegitimacy ignites civil war which spills over to India and Pakistan**

**Khan ’03** (Zillur R., Prof U Wisconsin Oshkosh, World Affairs, 6-22, Lexis)

The collapse of the Taliban regime followed by the formation of a coalition government headed by Hamid Karzai, a Pashtun tribal chief and a former minister in the pre-Taliban government with American and Russian support, could help to restore minimal order needed for political stability. __I<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">f the fragile …. deployment of nuclear weapons</span>__.



**Extinction**

**Fai ’01 (**Ghulam Nabi, Executive Director, Kashmiri American Council, Washington Times, 7-8)

__The foreign policy of the ….__ agenda does not justify complacency.



**Successfully combating corruption is key to the success of ALL OTHER military and development initiatives.**

**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Motlagh</span>****, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2007</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Jason, Deputy Foreign Editor at United Press International, “Reform and Function: Rebuilding Afghanistan won't be possible without efforts to keep corruption in check.” American Prospect, February 15, http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=reform_and_function] </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In the shadow of the Iraq enterprise,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **__….<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> deserving of their trust</span>__**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span> </span>



**Second, disease:**



**Central Asia negatively affected by Afghan drugs – causing AIDS**

**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Hill, 1</span>** [S. Frederick, Chairman of Central Asia-Caucasus Institute @ Nitze School of Advanced Int’l. Studies @ Johns Hopkins U., Federal Document Clearing House Congressional Testimony, “CENTRAL ASIAN NATIONS AND THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM”, 12-13, L/N]

<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">In Afghanistan, the Central Asian ….</span>__militias and the drug trade__.



**Extinction**

**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Kerns</span>** 19**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">99</span>** (Tom professor of philosophy, AIDS and Apocalyptics for Questioning Millennium Madness, http://bioethicscourse.info/aidsite/lec-millemad.html)

__The worst threat to humankind….viral reservoir expanding.__





**Third, Russia**



**The US is blamed for the Afghani drug trade by the Russians, kills relations**

Brian __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Padden</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">,</span> June 6, 20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span>, “Russia Says Afghan Trade Threatens World Peace”, VOA News, http://www1.voanews.com/english/news/Russia-Says-Afghan-Drug-Trade-Threatens-World-Peace-95719289.html

**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Russia</span>'__**s Deputy Prime Minister….<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;"> should follow the Soviet's example</span>



**Opium production uniquely kills relations**

Matthew C<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">. **DuPee** **and**</span> Sarah **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Kauffman</span>,** April 20th, **20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span>,** “In Afghanistan: Poppy Eradication Pits Russia vs NATO” http://therearenosunglasses.wordpress.com/2010/04/28/in-afghanistan-poppy-eradication-pits-russia-vs-nato/

**__Russian officials__** have recently accused U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan of “conniving with drug producers” and **__urged the coalition to pursue aggressive aerial eradication ….<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> of opium into heroin</span>__**.


**Relations key to solve accidental nuclear war**

**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Cohen 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen, AMiles) </span>



<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Cohen: The real concern I …, can connect these dots. </span>





**only extinction sc[[#LastEdit]]enario**
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal;">Nick </span>//**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bostrom</span>**//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal;">, Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University, March 20</span>//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">0<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2</span></span>**//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal;">, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards </span>//

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">A much greater </span>existential….____<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">risks that we will encounter in the 21st century. </span>__



**Fourth, Chaos**



**Afghani opium production causes global chaos- turns every neg impact scenario**

**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">BBC News</span>__****__<span style="text-underline: thick;"> 20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">09</span> </span>__**[<span style="font-size: 10pt;">October 21, 2009. Afghan Opium Feuls Global Chaos. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/8319249.stm]]</span>] </span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">UN findings say an </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">….</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">being hoarded, it believes. </span>




**CONTENTION 3: TERRORISM**



**Al Qaeda** **gets and bomb and attacks by** **2013****, results in Nuclear fallout and mass starvation**

**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Boston Globe 2010</span>** [Brian MacQuarrie – Globe Staff. “Clear and Present Nuclear Threats,” 7/25 http://www.boston.com/ae/movies/articles/2010/07/25/countdown_to_zero_examines_two_dangers_nuclear_threats_and_public_complacency/?page=2]

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Americans have plenty….<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2013</span>,’’ Allison said</span>__



**The CIA bases in Afghanistan are no longer able to fight the war on terrorism because of the suicide bombing that occurred in it.**

Siobhan __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Gorman</span>__, January 1, 20__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span>__, The Wall Street Journal, “Suicide Bombing in Afghanistan Devastates Critical Hub for CIA Activities”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB126225941186711671.html

Wednesday's **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">attack on a U.S. compound </span>….__**<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">all inside the club." </span>




**The US’s relationship with Jordan is key to fight the war on terrorism and is now severed because the bomber was recruited by Bin Zaid and he was the one that kept the relationship strong.**
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">AP</span>__, January 6, 20__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span>__, “CIA bomber in Afghanistan was double agent”, New York Post, http://www.nypost.com/p/news/international/cia_bomber_in_afghanistan_was_double_oMIWQHWD97WSh4r9DaJljM

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The suicide bomber who</span>….__in June that year.



**The CIA uniquely cause terrorism**

Michael **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Dorcak</span>**, History major, December 28th, 20**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10</span>**, “Invisible Roles of CIA Spies in Afghanistan” http://socyberty.com/history/invisible-role-of-cia-spies-in-afghanistan/

<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">Intelligence agencies of several countries ….</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">figure in these efforts</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span>


**terrorism results in a nuclear first strike and global nuclear war.**

**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Ayson 10</span>__** (Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions, InformaWorld)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But these two nuclear worlds…. or unwilling to provide. </span>



**terrorism causes extinction even if it is unsuccessful**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">sid-ahmed 4</span>** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">(</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">mohamed sid-ahmed, political analyst, august 26 – september 1, 2004, al-ahram weekly on-line, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-transform: none;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]</span>) </span>



__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">The phenomenon of terrorism </span>____<span style="color: black;">….</span>____<span style="color: black;"> the whole planet, we will all be losers. </span>__


**CONTENTION 4: SOLVENCY**



**Ending CIA presence is uniquely key to solving drug trade**

Michel __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Chossudovsky,</span>__ May 5, 20__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">05</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">,</span> economist and professor of economics at the University of Ottawa, “The Spoils of War: Afghanistan’s Multibillion Dollar Drug Trade”, Global Research, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=91

<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">In the wake of the 2001 US bombing …. the 2002 production was 3400 tons. </span>



**Obama needs to change his military strategy within Afghanistan in order to be able to solve terrorism.**

Stephen M. __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Walt</span>__, January 8, 20__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span>__, “On Our Terrorism Problem”, Foreign Policy, http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/01/08/on_our_terrorism_problem

Declaring that "the buck stops ….<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">, however, there's not much evidence of that.</span>





**the CIA is a covert presence**

Greg **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Miller</span>**, expert on foreign relations, September 22nd, 20**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10</span>**, “US covert paramilitary presence in Afghanistan much larger than thought” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/09/22/AR2010092206241.html

<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">The CIA has relied on Lilley….</span> __than previously known__.



**That means none of your disads apply**

Eric **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Rosenbach</span>**, Center for progress and international affairs, “Covert Action” July 20**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">09</span>**, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/19149/covert_action.html

According to National Security Act ….<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">covert action remaining secret.</span>



**Reforming drug policy fails**

Alfred W. __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">McCoy</span>,__ March 30, 20__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span>__, //Alfred W. McCoy is the J.R.W. Smail Professor of History at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He is the author of The Politics of Heroin: CIA Complicity in the Global Drug Trade, which probes the conjuncture of illicit narcotics and covert operations over half a century. His latest book, Policing America's Empire: The United States, the Philippines, and the Rise of the Surveillance State, explores the influence of overseas counterinsurgency operations on the spread of internal security measures at home,// “Can Anyone Pacify Afghanistan, the World’s Number One Narco-State?”, History News Network, http://www.hnn.us/articles/125034.html

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Quick fixes</span>__ like paying ….__a narco-state__.




==Turkey== 
===Meadows: Covert Turkey TNW's 1AC=== 
Inherency

__Contention 1__: the Status Quo



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Turkey is currently housing U.S. B-61 tactical nuclear weapons without strategic value </span>

**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">Bell 09</span>__** (Alexandra, 23 November, The status of U.S. nuclear weapons in Turkey, [[http://www.thebulletin.org/-web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey]])

**__For more than … <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">value or purpose.</span>__**



We will inevitably remove tnws in the future—it’s a question of doing it coherently or muddling through[[#x-Shirley_Round_Four-Ingram_9]]

**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">Ingram 9</span>__** (Paul Ingram, Executive Director, British American Security Information Council, April 2009, “Eliminating battlefield nuclear weapons from Europe and moving towards the adoption of a non-nuclear weapon security doctrine for the Alliance,” in “The Shadow NATO Summit: Options for NATO - pressing the reset button on the strategic concept,” British American Security Information Council, [[http://www.basicint.org/pubs/natoshadow.pdf]])

<span style="font-weight: normal;">I conclude by…n warn of. </span>



<span class="cite">Status quo withdrawal will be long and slow </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Allyn </span>__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">Gaestel</span>__<span style="font-weight: normal;">, May 6th, 20</span>__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">10</span>__<span style="font-weight: normal;">, “Countdown to Zero attempts to re-energize the nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation process” European Newswire, </span></span>[[http://www.europanewsblog.com/2010/05/countdown-to-zero-attempts-to-reenergize-the-nuclear-disarmament-and-nonproliferation-process-.html]]
**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt;">The movement toward </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">… of nuclear weapons</span>__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">. </span>






Plan text



Plan: <span style="font-weight: normal;">President Obama should issue a presidential directive to substantially reduce the United States’ military presence by eliminating all U.S. B-61 Tactical Nuclear Weapons in the Republic of Turkey. </span>



Presidential Directive Adv

**__Contention 2__****: Presidential Directives**



**Presidential directives key to the National Security Council**

Coby M. **__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">Brown,</span>__** Expert on National Security policies, “The National Security Council” [[http://www.pnsr.org/data/images/the%20national%20security%20council.pdf]] , 20**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">08</span>__**

**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">Presidents have shaped the </span>__****__…conveying that action__**.”<span class="A7">13 </span>



**Independent action spills over to the entire NSC**

Coby M. **__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">Brown,</span>__** Expert on National Security policies, “The National Security Council” [[http://www.pnsr.org/data/images/the%20national%20security%20council.pdf]] , 20**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">08</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Since passage of the original National Security Act of 1947, Congress has left unchanged the fundamental purpose, function, and duties of the NSC. </span>**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">Each President has made an independent determination of the type </span>__****__…__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">each with their own unique qualities.</span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The NSC is the critical component to national security </span>

Richard A**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">. Best</span>__** Jr, Specialist in National Defense, Congressional Service Research, “The National Security Council, An Organizational Analysis” June 8th, 20**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">09</span>__**, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RL30840.pdf]]

__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">National Security Council <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">(</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">. The Cabinet has no statutory role, but the NSC does.</span>



<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Natural disasters are an important part of US security </span>

**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">National Security Council</span>__,** Homeland Security, “National Strategy for Homeland Security” October 5th, 20**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">07</span>, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/7529914/National-Strategy-for-Homeland-Security-National-Security-Council]]__**

__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11.5pt;">Natural disasters also encompass </span>____<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">least 265 power plants to shut down.</span>



<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Absent coordination, extinction </span>

Jason **__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">Glover</span>__**, expert on digital marketing and environmental protection, “5 Natural Disasters Threatening the end of the world” August 30th, 20**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">10</span>__**, [[http://www.suite101.com/content/5-natural-disasters-threatening-the-end-of-the-world-a280014]]

Earth is currently the only ….**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">may just be around the corner.</span>..__**


<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Only the NSC has the ability to continually prevent the impact of disease outbreaks and natural disasters </span>

**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">National Security Council</span>__,** Homeland Security, “National Strategy for Homeland Security” October 5th, 20**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">07</span>, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/7529914/National-Strategy-for-Homeland-Security-National-Security-Council]]__**

<span style="font-size: 11.5pt; font-weight: normal;">Protecting the American people …</span><span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">collabora­tive community and regional planning is essential for the protection of the American people.</span>



<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">These threats are inevitable – whether or not we can contain them depends on NSC effectiveness </span>

**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">National Security Council</span>__,** Homeland Security, “National Strategy for Homeland Security” October 5th, 20**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">07</span>, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/7529914/National-Strategy-for-Homeland-Security-National-Security-Council]]__**

**__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Despite</span>__**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;"> our best **__deterrent and mitigation efforts__**, …**__to secure the Nation__**.</span>





Terrorism Adv



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention 3: __Nuclear Terrorism__ </span>



Terrorists are trying to acquire weapons now – specifically they are targeting Incirlik

Aslıhan <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Tümer</span></span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">,</span> disarmament campaigner for Greenpeace Turkey, 6-8-20**<span style="background-color: aqua; backgroundclip: initial; backgroundorigin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">0</span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">6</span></span>. [International Network of Engineers and Scientists Against Proliferation, NATO’s Nuclear Sharing and Incirlik, http://www.inesap.org/sites/default/files/inesap_old/bulletin26/art11.htm]

<span class="DebateUnderline">In recent months __<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">there were news </span>____…__</span>o identify and pursue joint actions.



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tactical nukes remain the most likely weapons for theft </span>

Miles A. **<span style="background-color: aqua; backgroundclip: initial; backgroundorigin: initial;">Pomper,</span>** William **<span style="background-color: aqua; backgroundclip: initial; backgroundorigin: initial;">Poter, and</span>** Nikolai **<span style="background-color: aqua; backgroundclip: initial; backgroundorigin: initial;">Sokov</span>**, Unit for Policy Planning and Research, Finnish Ministry for Foreign Affaris, December 20__09__, [[http://cns.miis.edu/opapers/pdfs/tnw_europe.pdf]])

__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">TNW remains a category of </span>…__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">which presupposes shortcuts in security procedures.</span>



**Plan prevents the theft and use of those weapons**

**<span style="background-color: aqua; backgroundclip: initial; backgroundorigin: initial;">Kibaroğlu 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Mustafa Kibaroğlu, assistant professor in the Department of International Relations of Bilkent University in Ankara, where he teaches arms control, disarmament, non-proliferation, and international security, Isn’t it Time to Say Farewell to Nukes in Turkey?,[[http://mustafakibaroglu.com/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderfiles/Kibaroglu-EuropeanSecurity-USnukesTurkey-December2005.pdf]]] </span>



__<span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Dramatic changes have …</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">opposed to their withdrawal. Below is an account of why this is the case</span><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">. </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the scenario is linear- for every reduction in nuclear weapons comes a decreased chance of nuclear terrorism </span>

**<span style="background-color: aqua; backgroundclip: initial; backgroundorigin: initial;">Turner and Nunn 2007</span>** [Ted and Sam, Co-Chairmen of the Nuclear Threat Initiative, NTI 2007 Annual Report, [[http://www.nti.org/b_aboutnti/annual_report_2007.pdf]]]

__The materials needed to …imperil our security in this age.__



<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; text-transform: none;">nuclear terrorism causes extinction even if it is unsuccessful</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt; text-transform: none;">sid-ahmed 4</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; text-transform: none;">(</span><span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-transform: none;">mohamed sid-ahmed, political analyst, august 26 – september 1, 2004, al-ahram weekly on-line, </span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;"><span class="cite">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]</span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-transform: none;">) </span></span>



__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">The phenomenon of terrorism </span>…we will all be losers.__




Even a low probability of nuclear terrorism means an aff ballot

Michael A. **__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">Levi</span>__**, April 19th, 20**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">07</span>__**, “How Likely is a Nuclear Terrorist Attack on the United States?” Council on Foreign Relations, [[http://www.cfr.org/publication/13097/how_likely_is_a_nuclear_terrorist_attack_on_the_united_states.html]]

Let me begin as I did last …<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">terrorist psychology to minimize the odds of catastrophe. </span>







**__Contention 4__: Secrecy**



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2 internal links: </span>**



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A) presidential directives are classified </span>**

**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">The Gale Group</span>__****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">expert group on espionage, intelligence, and security, “Executive Orders and Presidential Directives” October 20**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">04</span>__**, [[http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G2-3403300285.html#citationanchor]] </span>

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Executive orders and presidential …</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">from the president tend to be general, those from the NSC, DCI, and DoD are much more specific.</span>



**B) TNW’s remain a classified issue**

Judy **__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">Dempsey</span>__**, expert on IR theory, “Ridding Germany of US Nuclear Weapons from Europe, October 28th, 20**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">09</span>__**, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/10/29/world/europe/29iht-letter.html]]

**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">No U.S., NATO or</span> German …but I will circumvent them.”__**



**Classified reduction has been done before**

Judy **__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">Dempsey</span>__**, expert on IR theory, “Ridding Germany of US Nuclear Weapons from Europe, October 28th, 20**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">09</span>__**, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/10/29/world/europe/29iht-letter.html]]

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The United States has been much quicker …no fuss in NATO.</span>



**Even if someone finds out about the plan, the government will take steps to continue hiding it**

**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">KRISTENSEN</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 12/18/<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">07</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> White House Announces (Secret) Nuclear Weapons Cuts Hans Kristensen, [[http://www.fas.org/blog/ssp/2007/12/white_house_announces_secret_n.php]]</span>

No, **__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">the announcement …information deleted</span>__**.



Classification is needed to secure the U.S.

<span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council 95</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (</span></span>National Academy of Sciences think tank for pub policy, A review of the Department of Energy classification policy and practice http://books.google.com/books?id=qWettBF2ZYwC&source=gbs_navlinks_s page 1-2)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">DOE’s initiatives take place within a ….that warrants such careful protection is difficult to define. </span>



The scenario is linear - disclosing information on stockpiles allows for theft

<span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">AFP 2009</span></span> (Slip-up lays bare US secret nuclear sites: NYT, http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5h8C28WJK0nKl6ADPSI4cMr1OXQmg)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON (AFP) — </span><span class="underline0">The US government accidentally made public a secret report detailing its nuclear sites, programs and even exact locations of nuclear stockpiles,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">of data is not given out</span>." </span>



<span class="cite">Nuclear secrecy key to deterrence </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Noonan</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">3/4/</span><span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">10</span> </span>(John, staff writer, The Weekly Standard, DoD releases nuclear stockpile figures, http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/dod-releases-nuclear-stockpile-figures)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yesterday, the Obama administration …</span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">side of caution and keep his fangs tucked</span>. </span>



Deterrence solves nuclear war

<span class="tagChar"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Robinson 1</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – president and director of the Department of Energy Sandia National Laboratories (C. Paul, “A White Paper: Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” http://www.nukewatch.org/importantdocs/resources/pursuing_a_new_nuclear_weapons_p.html) </span>



<span class="underline0"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">Deterrence of aggression is a cornerstone </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">but the choice would be in our hands. </span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The most conclusive historical analysis proves deterrence is successful </span>**

**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Institute for Defense Analyses</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span>__** (James S. Thomason, Project Leader,Senior Analyst, Strategy, Forces and Resources Division, Institute for Defense Analyses, Ph.D., International Relations, Northwestern University, B.A., Government, Harvard College, Senior Projects Manager, Institute for Defense Analyses, Director of consulting team to the CORM, Professional Staff Member, Center for Naval Analyses, Consultant, State Department, Robert J. Atwell, Robert Bovey, William E. Cralley, James Delaney, Michael P. Fischerkeller, Kongdan Oh Hassig, Charles Hawkins, Gene Porter) July **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">20__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">02</span>__</span>**, Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD, Volume I: Main Report

<span class="underline0">The most comprehensive …</span>in promoting the successful extended-immediate deterrence of a challenger.


**﻿**
**__Contention 5__: We’ll pre-empt your theory arguments**



**2 Internal links to normal means:**



**1) Presidential directives are justified when dealing with terrorism**

**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">Department of Homeland Security</span>__,** “Homeland Security Presidential Directive 7: Critical Infastructure Identification, Prioritization, and Protection” December 17th, 20**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">03</span>__**, http://www.dhs.gov/xabout/laws/gc_1214597989952.shtm

Homeland Security **__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">Presidential </span>…agencies will play in carrying it out.__**



**2) Changes in nuclear policy require presidential directives**

Hans M. **__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">Kristensen</span>__**, “Towards a New US Nuclear Posture” Spring 20**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">09</span>__**, Disarmament Policy, [[http://www.acronym.org.uk/dd/dd90/90us02.htm]]

**__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">To change military planning </span>…__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">forces to commanders of unified commands. </span>

===__Glenbrooks: Regular Turkey TNW's 1AC__=== 

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Inherency </span>
Contention 1: the Status Quo

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Turkey is currently housing US B-61 tactical nuclear weapons without strategic value </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bell 09</span>** (Alexandra, 23 November, The status of U.S. nuclear weapons in Turkey, [[http://www.thebulletin.org/-web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey]]) </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__For more than …<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;"> value or purpose</span>.__</span>
**The US has withdrawn most its weapons from the rest of Europe**
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 12pt;">Lale **<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">sariibrahimoğlu</span>**, May 4th, 20**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">09</span>**, “Turkey to Face Pressure Over Nukes on Its Soil” [[http://www.todayszaman.com/tz-web/detaylar.do?load=detay&link=174286&bolum=100]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">According to the … war, it added. </span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">We will inevitably remove tnws in the future[[#x-Shirley_Round_Four-Ingram_9]] </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ingram 9</span>** (Paul Ingram, Executive Director, British American Security Information Council, April 2009, “Eliminating battlefield nuclear weapons from Europe and moving towards the adoption of a non-nuclear weapon security doctrine for the Alliance,” in “The Shadow NATO Summit: Options for NATO - pressing the reset button on the strategic concept,” British American Security Information Council, [[http://www.basicint.org/pubs/natoshadow.pdf]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">I conclude … a cohesive force in the Alliance warn of. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Status quo withdrawal will be long and slow </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 12pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Allyn </span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Gaestel,</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> May 6th, 20<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">10</span>, “</span><span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">Countdown to Zero attempts to re-energize the nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation process” European Newswire, </span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.europanewsblog.com/2010/05/countdown-to-zero-attempts-to-reenergize-the-nuclear-disarmament-and-nonproliferation-process-.html]]</span> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt;">The movement toward ….free of nuclear weapons</span>__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt;">.</span> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Debate on TNW’s is inevitable</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Tetrais, 08</span>** [Bruno Tertrais, Senior Research Fellow, Foundation for Strategic Research, 9-26-2008, Real Instituto Elcano, The Coming NATO Nuclear Debate, [[http://www.isodarco.it/courses/andalo10/doc/ARI117-2008_Tetrais_NATO_Nuclear_Debate.pdf]]] </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">__It is the contention ….__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and missile defence policy.</span> </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Turkish Diplomacy Adv </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention 2: __Turkey Diplomacy__ </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Removing TNWs from turkey is key to Turkish diplomacy</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; color: black;">Ingram et al. 2009</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Paul Ingram, Executive Director at the British American Security Council, Claudine Lamond has recently graduated from the Australian National University holding a Bachelor of Arts in International Relations, and a Bachelor of Asian Studies, Security and Strategic Studies, and Japanese. “ Politics around US tactical nuclear weapons in European host states,” BASIC Getting to Zero Papers, No. 11, 1-23, </span>[[@http://www.basicint.org/gtz/gtz11.pdf]]<span style="color: black;">) </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">Turkey’s location … overwhelming public support.22 </span>
**Turkey is uniquely key in the region**
**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Ben-Meir</span>, Senior Fellow at the Center for Global Affairs in New York University, 20<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">09</span>** (Alon, __The Whitehead Journal of Diplomacy and International Relations__, Spring, [[http://www.unc.edu/depts/diplomat/item/2009/0103/comm/benmeir_iran.html]], accessed 7/2, DM)

<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in;">__The presence of ….and friendly relations.__ </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turkish diplomacy is key to preventing conflict in the middle east </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;"><span style="color: black;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Çetinsaya 2008</span>** (</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Gökhan Çetinsaya, Ph.D., Professor of History and International Relations at Istanbul Technical University, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, “The New Middle East, Turkey, and the Search for Regional Stability,” Atlantic Council, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[@http://www.acus.org/publication/us-turkey-relations-require-new-focus/cetinsaya]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">)</span> </span>
<span style="line-height: 12.9pt; margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">__In this new ….<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;"> in the Middle East</span>__. </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Conflict in the middle east leads to world war </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 10pt;">Reuters</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> , 20</span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 10pt;">07</span></span> (quoting Khalilzad -- "Middle East turmoil could cause world war: U.S. envoy." 8/27. http://www.reuters.com/article/politicsNews/idUSL2719552620070827) </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;"><span class="underline0"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-weight: normal;">Upheaval in the </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">…</span></span> the published German. </span>

This is the most likely scenario for extinction
[[#_Toc141638070]][[#_Toc141617604]]

For some time ….<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> recipe for Armageddon</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">. </span></span>

**Empirically proven - the reason why there hasn’t been war is because of Turkey**
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ulgan, 09</span>**<span style="color: black;"> [Sinan, chairman of the think tank Center for Economics and Foreign Policy Studies “Turkey's Route to the E.U. May be Via the Middle East”,</span><span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.worldpress.org/mideast/3351.cfm|http://www.worldpress.org/ mideast/3351.cfm]]</span> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Turkish diplomacy has </span>… rivals to the tabl__e. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-weight: normal;">Terrorism Adv </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention 3: __Nuclear Terrorism__ </span>

Terrorists are trying to acquire weapons now – specifically they are targeting Incirlik
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">Aslıhan <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Tümer</span></span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">,</span> disarmament campaigner for Greenpeace Turkey, 6-8-20**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">0</span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">6</span></span>. [International Network of Engineers and Scientists Against Proliferation, NATO’s Nuclear Sharing and Incirlik, http://www.inesap.org/sites/default/files/inesap_old/bulletin26/art11.htm] </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;"><span class="DebateUnderline">In recent months …</span> and pursue joint actions. </span>
**Security conditions at Incirlik increase risk of successful theft**
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">Collin **<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Daily</span>**, June 20**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">10</span>**, “Removal of Tactical Nuclear Weapons in Turkey” http://www.thepetitionsite.com/16/removal-of-tactical-nuclear-weapons-in-turkey/ </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">There are 90 tactical …. everyone else does as well. </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Plan prevents the theft and use of those weapons </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Kibaroğlu 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Mustafa Kibaroğlu, assistant professor in the Department of International Relations of Bilkent University in Ankara, where he teaches arms control, disarmament, non-proliferation, and international security, Isn’t it Time to Say Farewell to Nukes in Turkey?,[[http://mustafakibaroglu.com/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderfiles/Kibaroglu-EuropeanSecurity-USnukesTurkey-December2005.pdf]]] </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Dramatic changes have ….</span>__ __<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Turkey</span>__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">.</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">Nevertheless, the official view is diametrically opposed to their withdrawal. Below is an account of why this is the case</span><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">. </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the scenario is linear- for every reduction in nuclear weapons comes a decreased chance of nuclear terrorism </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Turner and Nunn 2007</span>** [Ted and Sam, Co-Chairmen of the Nuclear Threat Initiative, NTI 2007 Annual Report, [[http://www.nti.org/b_aboutnti/annual_report_2007.pdf]]] </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">__The materials needed …in this age.__ </span>

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal; text-transform: none;">nuclear terrorism causes extinction even if it is unsuccessful</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; text-transform: none;">sid-ahmed 4</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; text-transform: none;">(</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-transform: none;">mohamed sid-ahmed, political analyst, august 26 – september 1, 2004, al-ahram weekly on-line, </span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;"><span class="cite">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]</span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-transform: none;">) </span></span>

__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt;">The phenomenon </span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">…</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> all be losers. </span>__





<span style="font-weight: normal;">Iran Prolif Adv </span>
Contention 4: __Iran Prolif__

<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Iran is on the brink of proliferation - has the ability and willingness to nuclearize --- hypocritical foreign policy means any form of US action fails </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kahili</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, 8/27/ </span>****<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">10</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">[Reza</span> //<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">Kahlili is a pseudonym for an </span>////<span style="color: black;">ex-</span>//**//<span style="border: windowtext 1pt solid; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; padding: 0in;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-central-intelligence-agency/|//CIA//]] __spy__</span>//**//<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;"> who requires anonymity for safety reasons. "[[http://www.amazon.com/Time-Betray-Astonishing-Double-Revolutionary/dp/143918903X/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1280594328&sr=1-1|//A Time to Betray//]]," his book about his double life as a [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-central-intelligence-agency/|//CIA//]] agent in [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/islamic-republic-of-iran/|//Iran//]]'s Revolutionary Guards</span>////<span style="color: black;">,</span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;"> “Iran goes nuclear The West vacillates while Armageddon approaches”, [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/aug/27/iran-goes-nuclear/print/]]</span> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-weight: normal;">Ru[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/russia/|__ssia__]] turned on </span>____<span style="font-weight: normal;">….</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;"> their nuclear scientists. </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">TNW’s in Turkey cause Iran Prolif – they are perceived as a threat and act as a justification for Iran </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Kibaroglu 10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Mustafa, Fellow at the </span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Harvard University’s BelferCenter for Science and International Affairs, the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, the International Atomic Energy Agency, and the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#bio) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because of the …</span>__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;"> ambitious nuclear capabilities.</span>__ </span>

**A nuclear Iran ignites the several extinction scenarios – and makes every impact more likely**
**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Morgan, </span>**Professor of Foreign Studies at Hankuk University**, 20<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">09</span>** (Dennis, __Futures__, December, Vol. 41 Issue: Number 10, Ebsco, GS)

<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in;">__Given the present … in a nuclear holocaust.__ </span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">We’ll isolate specific scenarios: </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">1. First is Global Prolif - </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">a. Iran prolif makes global prolif and destabilization inevitable </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ackerman 09</span>** (Gary is part of the Presidential Task Force on Iranian Proliferation, Regional Security, and U.S. Policy, Washington Institute for Near East Policy, “Preventing a Cascade of Instability: U.S. Engagement to Check Iranian Nuclear Progress,” March, p. 2 http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/pubPDFs/PTF-Iran.pdf ) </span>
<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">If Iran “gets … region is inevitable.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">b. any conflict causes extinction in a world of prolif</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt;">Utgoff,</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">Deputy Director of Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division</span> <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt;">02</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">of Institute for Defense Analysis (Victor A., Summer 2002, Survival, p.87-90 Victor A Utgoff, Deputy Director of Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of Institute for Defense Analysis, Summer 2002, Survival, p.87-90) </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">In sum, widespread <span class="underline0"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-weight: normal;">… or even whole nations.</span></span> </span>

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Second Scenario is East Asia </span></span>

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">a. Nuclear Iran causes Chinese aggression against Taiwan and makes military presence in Asia unsustainable </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; color: black;">Zambelis ‘7</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Chris, Associate – Helios Global (International Political Risk Analysis), China Brief 7:23, “The Iranian Nuclear Question in U.S.-China Relations”, 12-13, </span>[[http://www.jamestown.org/china_brief/article.php?articleid=2373858]]<span style="color: black;">)</span> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Any combination of …</span> __China in East Asia__. </span>

**b. aggression towards Taiwan guarantees multiple hotspots for nuclear war**
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 12pt; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="citebold"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">The Straits Times</span></span>, June 25, <span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">20</span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">00</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Regional Fallout: No One Gains in War Over Taiwan. Straits Times. Lexis | SWON) </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">The high-intensity …</span>__<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> see the destruction of civilisation</span></span>. </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">3. Scenario 3 is Turkish Prolif </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">a. Iranian proliferation is the only scenario for Turkish proliferation</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">Mustafa**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;"> Kibarglu </span>**, June 20**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">10</span>,** “Reassessing the Role of US Nuclear Weapons in Turkey” Arms Control Association, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">The Turks look … __is a recipe for catastrophe__. </span>



<span style="font-weight: normal;">Plan text </span>

**Plan:** **The United States federal government should substantially reduce its Tactical Nuclear Weapons and the military personnel in charge of them in the Republic of Turkey.**



<span style="font-weight: normal;">Solvency </span>
Contention 5 __Solvency__:

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Removing TNWs restores Turkish diplomacy stopping Iranian proliferation and terrorism </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Kibaroglu 7</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of International Relations at Bilkent University </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mustaga, A Turkish Nuclear Turnaround, Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, November/December, http://www.mustafakibaroglu.com/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderfiles/Kibaroglu-Bulletin-USnukesTurkey-NovDev2007.pdf, chm) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">To that end, </span>__…. help lead the way.__ </span>

Removing the weapons will boost Turkish soft power without compromising US extended deterrence
[[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#bio|Mustafa ]]<span class="Author-Date">[[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#bio|Kibaroglu]]</span>, Professor,Vice Chair International Relations Dept., Bilkent U., Ankara, Turkey, June 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">10</span></span>, Arms Control Today, print pg 12-13

<span class="DebateUnderline">Turkey clearly has …__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> to this rule</span>____.__ </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Absent US leadership, prolif, nuclear terrorism and nuclear war are inevitable</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Russo</span>**<span style="color: black;">, 20**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">06 </span>**[Gregory, Osgood Center for International Studies, “The U.S. and the Proliferation Situation: An Opinion,” 8-8, </span>[[http://www.osgoodcenter.org/Russo_Paper.pdf]]<span style="color: black;">]</span> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">If I have taken ….</span>__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;"> becomes terrifyingly real</span>__<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">.</span> </span>
<span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Now’s key </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;"><span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Nato Watch</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, May 14th, 20**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">10</span>**, “NGO Statement on Tactical Nuclear Weapons” [[http://natowatch.org/node/358]] </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 12pt;">As the United …<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of those weapons more likely.</span></span>

===2ACs=== 

====Addons==== 

=====Genocide===== 
<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">**US Personnel are key to Turkish intel which has lead to increased crackdowns on the Kurds** </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">Tyson et al 7</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Ann Tyson and Robin Wright, Pentagon correspondant, “U.S Helps Turkey Hit Rebel Kurds in Iraq” Washington Post. </span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-weight: normal;">h</span><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">ttp://www.washingtonpost.com/wp</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-weight: normal;">dyn/content/article/2007/12/17/AR2007121702150.html</span><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">) </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal;">The United States </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">…</span></span> the official said. </span>


<span class="cite">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Causes genocide </span>** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Fatah 6</span></span> (Rebwar, journalist, “The Accepted Genocide of Kurds in Turkey” Kurdish Media, http://kurdmedia.com/article.aspx?id=13491) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Since the Armenian…<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal;">in Turkey today</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">."</span> </span>



<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">**Genocide is the ultimate crime: it eats away at civilization and erodes institutions, risking global conflict** </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Campbell 1</span></span> (Kenneth, professor of Poli Science, “Misunderstanding Genocide,” GENOCIDE AND THE GLOBAL VILLAGE )
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal;">Genocide is the </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">… such as genocide</span></span>.42 </span>


====Offcase==== 
====== ====== 

======<span style="line-height: 19px;">DISADS</span>====== 
======Africa Dip Cap====== 


<span style="tab-stops: 197.0pt;">**Afghanistan triggers the link** </span>
Shazhad **Chaudry**, former air marshal and ambassador, Daily Times **1/23/2011**: Obama's war” http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/default.asp?page=2011%5C01%5C24%5Cstory_24-1-2011_pg3_2) DA: 1/24/11
When Bruce Riedel… __Co to 2012.__

**Peace process triggers the link**
**Mondoweiss**, news website devoted to covering American foreign policy in the Middle East, **1/31/2011**. “Obama failed to seize the day (and spent his political capital),” http://mondoweiss.net/2011/01/obama-failed-to-seize-the-day-and-thereby-shot-his-wad.html
At Huffo, Jame…the Arab World.

**Egypt triggers the link – it’s a huge loss for Obama**
Matt **Lewis**, Politics Daily, **2/2/2011**. “Would It Be Fair to Blame Obama for 'Losing Egypt'?” http://www.politicsdaily.com/2011/02/02/f/
As David Corn … predecessor, Jimmy __Carter__.


======Turkish Prolif====== 

**2. case turns the disad - TNW withdraw doesn’t trigger your links – only iran prolif does**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">CSIS</span>**, Center for Strategic International Studies, May 5th 20**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10</span>**, “US Nuclear Weapons in Europe: An Ineffective Deterrent, Unnecssary for the Alliance” [[http://csis.org/blog/us-nuclear-weapons-europe-ineffective-deterrent-and-unnecessary-assurance]]
NSNW = Non Strategic Nuclear Weapons
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">A second objection …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">non-nuclear state</span>____.__

**3.** **<span style="color: black;">Removing tnws prevents Turkish and allied prolif </span>**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Kimball</span>,** Executive Director Arms Control Association, 20**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">09 </span>**(Daryl, “Change U.S. Nuclear Policy?”, __Arms Control Association__, September, ProQuest, Date accessed: June 25, 2010)
Some suggest that … __world's deadliest weapons.__"

**4. only a risk of a link turn**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Davutoglu, </span>**Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs; Grossman, Vice Chairman, Cohen Group; **20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span>** (Ahmet, Marc, Federal News Service, 4/14, LexisNexis, 6/25/10)
But if a …__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> nuclear-free zone</span>__.

**5. no impact – no capabilities**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Barkey 09 </span>**(Henri, <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ph.D., Political Science, University of Pennsylvania; M.S., Political Science, University College, </span> <span style="color: #666666; font-family: Georgia,serif;">September 22, 2009, </span> “TURKEY'S PERSPECTIVES ON NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND DISARMAMENT”Unblocking the road to zero)
Go nuclear option…Syria __with silence.__



======SKFTA Bad====== 

**SKFTA kills the alliance**
Dong Sun <span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Lee</span></span>, Ph.D. Political Science, University of Chicago <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span></span> Sung Eun <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kim</span></span>, Research Fellow at the Asiatic Research Institute and MA in Poli Sci from Korea University The Impact of a Free Trade Agreement on the U.S.-South Korean Alliance: A Theoretical and Empirical Assessment, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">09</span></span></span>. Annual Convention of the International Studies Association, p. All Academic

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IR theory suggests …</span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">for the alliance</span></span>

**Relations solve a laundry list of impacts**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Sharp</span> 20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Gen. Walter Sharp, Commander, United Nations Command/Combined Forces Command/U.S. Forces Korea, Congressional Documents and Publications, March 26) Calum </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">A </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">key part of </span>… interest to the U.S.__



**US trade groups are terrible at predicting the impacts of FTAs – SKFTA is more likely to kill the economy**
Dustin <span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Ensinger</span></span>, Economy in Crisis, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span></span></span>. “South Korea FTA’s Impacts on U.S.,” http://www.economyincrisis.org/content/south-korea-ftas-impacts-us

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite claims to the …</span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">proud manufacturing base.</span> </span>


**Global nuclear war**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Mead 09</span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, New Republic, February 4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">So far, such …</span> __still <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">have to fight.</span>__


**family farms**
Thomas <span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Kim</span></span>, executive director of the Korea Policy Institute, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">07</span></span></span>. “The Second Opening of Korea: US South Korea Free Trade Agreement,” http://www.kpolicy.org/documents/policy/070614thomaskimsecondopening.html

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">All farming in … lose their farms</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Those who can will enter urban areas in search of work, but half of South Korean farmers are now over 60 years old. </span>

**Key to the South Korean economy**
Max <span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Ajl</span></span>, Solve Climate News, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span></span></span>. “Return to Small Farms Could Help Alleviate Social and Environmental Crises,” http://solveclimatenews.com/news/20100110/return-small-farms-could-help-alleviate-social-and-environmental-crises?page=2
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So it makes …</span><span class="underline0">towns died off." </span>

**South Korean economy is key to Asian democracy**
**NEWSWEEK** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">1-29-</span>**2010**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Selling South Korea,” [[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/01/28/selling-south-korea.html]]) Calum </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In short, the …</span> __that of China."__

**Extinction**
**Diamond, 95**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, Professor of Political Science and Sociology and Coordinator of the Democracy Program at the the Center on Democracy at Stanford University (Larry, "Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and instruments, issues and imperatives : a report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict", December 1995, June 26th 2010, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/di.htm, KONTOPOULOS) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">__Nuclear, chemical, and…__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of their environments. </span></span>


======Relations====== 

**Relations are strong—flotilla and sanctions incidents don’t harm relations**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rozen 6/21 </span></span>(Politico, national security correspondent, Laura, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0610/38806.html,
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But Tan insisted </span><span class="underline">… with our objectives.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” </span>


**US-Turkey relations high- cooperation over PKK**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Daily News 6/21</span></span> (http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/n.php?n=us-is-ready-to-review-measures-against-pkk-2010-06-21)
<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The U</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">S</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…the European Union.</span>


**<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Turkey Relations are rising due to Middle East cooperation </span></span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Karabat 6/24 </span></span>(Ayse, Today’s Zaman, http://www.todayszaman.com/tz-web/news-214071-102-turkey-us-intel-sharing-against-pkk-working-fine-says-armitage.html
<span class="underline">Intelligence sharing</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in …</span><span class="underline"> overcome these difficulties</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">**Removing weapons from Turkey hurts US-Turkey relations** </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Alexandra Bell and Benjamin Loehrke, November 23rd, 2009, “The Status of US Nuclear Weapons in Turkey” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, </span>[[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey]] </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**A prescription for …**<span class="underline"> influence Tehran's behavior.</span> </span>

**Turkey prefers the presence of TNWs- commitment to burden sharing**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kibaroglu 10</span></span> (Mustafa, fellowship at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Arms Control Today, June, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#bio)
<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">A second reason </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a regional hegemony. </span>

**Relations will inevitably be low**
<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Larrabee 10</span> </span>(F. Stephen, senior staff member of RAND, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2009/RAND_MG899.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While some analysts ….e</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">lsewhere in Europe</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.8 </span>


===MBA: Turkey Troops 1AC=== 

**Plan Text**: **The United States federal government should eliminate its troop presence in the Republic of Turkey.**





**Contention 1: the status quo**



**US has troops in Turkey**

Spencer **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Boyer</span>**, (Analyst, Center for American Progress), THE NEGLECTED ALLIANCE: RESTORING U.S.-TURKISH RELATIONS TO MEET 21ST CENTURY CHALLENGES, Dec. 20**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">08</span>**, 3.

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The strategic ….</span> __in south-central Turkey__.





Contention 2 is the PKK



US intel has lead to increased crackdowns on the PKK

Tyson et al 7<span class="cite"> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Ann Tyson and Robin Wright, Pentagon correspondant, “U.S Helps Turkey Hit Rebel Kurds in Iraq” Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wpdyn/content/article/2007/12/17/AR2007121702150.html) </span></span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The United States is </span>…. notifies the United States</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the official said.</span>



Turkey reacts to PKK attacks out of proportion, killing nearly a hundred Kurdish citizens per Turkish soldier.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Israel today 10</span></span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">(“While Criticizing Israel, Turkey kills Kurds”, Israel Today, http://www.walrusmagazine.com/articles/2008.09-international-affairs-a-land-apart-turkey-politics-christopher-frey/1/) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the same day as the …. </span><span class="underline0">sentence in Kurdish from the podium</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>




<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Turkish genocide of the Kurds is systemic and ongoing--the Kurds are used as scapegoats and called terrorists to justify Turkey’s actions to the international community. </span></span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Fatah 6</span></span> (Rebwar, journalist, “The Accepted Genocide of Kurds in Turkey” Kurdish Media, http://kurdmedia.com/article.aspx?id=13491)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the Armenian ….</span><span class="underline0"> the Kurds in Turkey today</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." </span>



<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Turkish genocide attacks Kurdish citizens, not just the PKK. Rather than seeing the violence as a result of the PKK, the Turks see it as a result of the entire ethnic group. </span></span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Frey 8 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">(Christopher, Doctor of Philosophy, //“Can Turkey fulfill its promise as a bridge between East and West when its own peoples stand divided?”,// Republic of Iraq </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">…..</span></span><span class="underline0"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">it’s an identity problem</span>.” </span>




Genocide is the ultimate crime: it eats away at civilization and erodes institutions, risking global conflict

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Campbell 1</span></span> (Kenneth, professor of Poli Science, “Misunderstanding Genocide,” GENOCIDE AND THE GLOBAL VILLAGE )

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Genocide is the </span>….. such as genocide</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.42 </span>



Plan Solves--Only by withdrawing our militaristic support of Turkey can we end the genocide.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Levene 98</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Mark, Prof. Humanities, Holocaust and Genocide Studies, p. 420) </span>

<span class="underline0">While the ….</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, provided the state did not directly challenge western interests </span>.


Turkey can only attack once it has US intel, withdrawal prevents them from tracking the PKK

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tyson et al 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Ann Tyson and Robin Wright, Pentagon correspondent, “U.S Helps Turkey Hit Rebel Kurds in Iraq” Washington Post.</span> http://www.washingtonpost.com/wpdyn/content/article/2007/12/17/AR2007121702150.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">persistent </span>….</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> assault from Turkey this year </span>



**Contention 3: Election**



First, the AKP will lose the 2011 election in the SQ

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ronen </span></span>6/6/<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>. (Gil, Editor of Israel National News. “Erdogan Poised to Lose Next Election, Expert Says.” Israel National News. June 6, 2010. [[http://www.israelnationalnews.com/News/news.aspx/137906]]). LRH.



<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Public support for the </span>…</span> to gain public support.”



Second the AKP has tried to pass legal reforms in the SQ but failed—too much opposition

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Barysch 10 </span></span>

Katinka Barysch, Katinka Barysch is the deputy director at the Centre for European Reform, Turkey's turmoil, Thursday, April 01, 2010, http://centreforeuropeanreform.blogspot.com/2010/04/turkeys-turmoil.html.



<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The opposition … of judges and prosecutors’</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span>



Withdrawal of American Troops from Turkey would be a huge win for the AKP—the plan is extremely popular

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Abramowitz and Barkey 9</span></span>. <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Morton, U.S. Ambassador to Turkey from 1989-91, and Henri J, a nonresident Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. p5. “Turkey's Transformers: The AKP Sees Big." Foreign Affairs. November/December 2009 [[http://carnegieendowment.org/files/Turkeys_Transformers.pdf]]). LRH.</span>



Perhaps <span class="underline0">the AKP government's …</span>carried out by insurgents from Syria).



<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">US personnel are the unique cause of resentment - plan would be popular </span></span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Foreign Affairs and Trade </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">(//“Republic of Turkey Key Facts”// New England Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Key Facts, </span></span>[[http://www.mfat.govt.nz/Countries/Middle-East/Turkey.php|//http://www.mfat.govt.nz/Countries/Middle-East/Turkey.php//]]<span class="cite">//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">) </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">MKB</span></span>

<span class="underline0">Turkey has traditionally …. troops to Iraq are in the past.</span>



Popularity is key to the agenda and election

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Derfner 5</span></span>. (Larry, writer for the Jerusalem Post. “Land of Milk and Honey.” The Jerusalem Post. September 29, 2005). LRH



HE IS NOW in <span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a </span>…</span>at least their rhetoric.





We’ll isolate several scenarios:



**First,**

AKP win is key to EU accession



<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Barysch 10 </span></span>

Katinka Barysch, Katinka Barysch is the deputy director at the Centre for European Reform, Turkey's turmoil, Thursday, April 01, 2010, http://centreforeuropeanreform.blogspot.com/2010/04/turkeys-turmoil.html



The new enlargement ….<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> chances in the medium term</span>.</span>




Accession solves human rights violations

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Canan 7</span></span> [Fuat, Staff Writer, April 2007, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_7057/is_2_9/ai_n28498815/pg_3/?tag=content;col1]

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Main argument put …. described as democratization. (19) </span>



**human rights violations make extinction inevitable**

**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Human Rights Web</span>, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">94</span>** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">(An Introduction to the Human Rights Movement Created on July 20, 1994 / Last edited on January 25, 1997, http://www.hrweb.org/intro.html) </span>



<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">The [[http://www.hrweb.org/legal/unchartr.html|United Nations Charter]], Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and UN Human Rights convenants were written and implemented in the aftermath of the Holocaust, revelations coming from the Nuremberg war crimes trials, the Bataan Death March, the atomic bomb, and other horrors smaller in magnitude but not in impact on the individuals they affected. A whole lot of people in a number of countries had a crisis of conscience and found they could no longer look the other way while tyrants jailed, tortured, and killed their neighbors. Many also realized that advances in technology and changes in social structures had rendered war a threat to the continued existence of the human race.</span> __Large numbers of people in many countries lived under the control of tyrants, having no recourse but war to relieve often intolerable living conditions__. __Unless some way was found to relieve the lot of these people, they could revolt and become the catalyst for another wide-scale and possibly nuclear war**.**__ For perhaps the first time, representatives from the majority of governments in the world came to the conclusion that __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">basic human rights must be protected, not only for the sake of the individuals and countries involved, but to preserve the human race.</span>__





**Second,**



**Lack of popularity causes the AKP to break off relations with Israel**

Middle East Monitor 6-27 <span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(http://www.middleeastmonitor.org.uk/articles/arab-media/1215-turkey-is-paying-the-price-on-our-behalf) </span>

Internally, the one ….<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> parliamentary elections next year.</span> </span>



Turkey-Israeli relations are critical to avoid regional war

Miami Herald 6-30 <span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(http://www.miamiherald.com/2010/06/30/1707724/turkey-vital-ally-for-israel.html)</span>

<span class="underline0">Turkey has become a ….</span>Iran's nuclear enrichment program.



Reversing the slide in relations is a model for regional relations

Miami Herald 6-30 <span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(http://www.miamiherald.com/2010/06/30/1707724/turkey-vital-ally-for-israel.html)</span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Repair of the strained </span>… than provocative speech or violence.</span>




That solves middle east instability

Miami Herald 6-30 <span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(http://www.miamiherald.com/2010/06/30/1707724/turkey-vital-ally-for-israel.html)</span>

If Israel and Turkey can ….<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> solutions to this troubled region.</span></span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Conflict in the middle east leads to world war </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Reuters</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> , 20</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">07</span></span> (quoting Khalilzad -- "Middle East turmoil could cause world war: U.S. envoy." 8/27. http://www.reuters.com/article/politicsNews/idUSL2719552620070827)

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal;">Upheaval in the Middle East</span> </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">…</span> English from the published German.



This is the most likely scenario for extinction

[[#_Toc141638070]][[#_Toc141617604]]



For some time ….<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> you have a recipe for Armageddon</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">. </span></span>



**Third,**

EU membership key to Iraqi stability

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Laciner, 2004</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(ISRO Director and Onsekiz Mart University IR Lecturer, Sedat, International Strategic Research Organization, "Turkey's EU Membership's Possible Impacts on the Middle East," http://www.aina.org/news/20041224152357.htm,)JFS </span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">There is a dire …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> could make Iraq a less dangerous place</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. </span>



<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">stability is key to reversing the destruction of the marshland </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Dr. Michelle </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Stevens</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">, Professor CSUS</span></span>, **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">9</span>** Terrible Water Scarcity In Marshes; Desperate Plight of the Mesopotamian Marshes, southern Iraq Michelle L.

Stevens, Assistant Professor, CSUS, Environmental Studies Department, 916-765-7397, [[mailto:stevensm@csus.edu|stevensm@csus.edu]]

<span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">The marshes are … with water from the rivers</span></span>.



<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Northern Iraqi marshes are key to global biodiversity-migratory birds </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">ODU</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">6/22/</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">10</span> </span>[[http://www.odu.edu/ao/news/index.php?todo=details&id=22607]], News at Old Dominion University

ODU Signs Memorandum of Understanding with Iraqi University

<span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Mesopotamian </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">marshes</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> where ….<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> from Siberia to southern Africa.</span> </span></span>



<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">extinction </span>

**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Diner, '94</span>** (Judge Advocate General's Corps – US Army, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, GENDER MODIFIED)

<span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">"Biologically diverse ecosystems…. be edging closer to the abyss. </span></span>



<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Independently, The marshes in Iraq are at a crossroads--the next decade is critical </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">ENS 10</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">W</span></span>ater Scarcity Endangers Iraq's Migratory Birds, Water Scarcity Endangers Iraq's Migratory Birds, Iraq, May 6, 2010 (ENS) – http://www.ens-newswire.com/ens/may2010/2010-05-06-01.html

To mark World Migratory Bird Day this Sunday, the nongovernmental organization Nature Iraq is joining its BirdLife International partners around the world to celebrate bird migration, and to highlight the difficulties facing some the world's most threatened species.

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal;">The </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">Mesopotamian<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> marshes in </span>the …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> persecution and habitat loss</span></span></span>."



<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">The marsh water buffalo will go extinct without immediate restoration of the marshes </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Dr. Michelle </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Stevens</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">, Professor CSUS, </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">9</span> </span>Terrible Water Scarcity In Marshes; Desperate Plight of the Mesopotamian Marshes, southern Iraq

Michelle L. Stevens, Assistant Professor, CSUS, Environmental Studies Department, 916-765-7397, [[mailto:stevensm@csus.edu|stevensm@csus.edu]]



<span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">The marshes are a …. to the disappearance of people in the marshes”</span></span> (Al Fartosi, pers comm., 2009).


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Harvard: Nuclear Zero** </span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention 1: the Status Quo</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Turkey is currently housing US TNWs without strategic value</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bell 09</span>** (Alexandra, 23 November, The status of U.S. nuclear weapons in Turkey, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.thebulletin.org/-web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey]]</span>)</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__For more than …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> value or purpose</span>.__</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The US has withdrawn most its weapons from the rest of Europe**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Lale **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">sariibrahimoğlu</span>**, May 4th, 20**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">09</span>**, “Turkey to Face Pressure Over Nukes on Its Soil” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.todayszaman.com/tz-web/detaylar.do?load=detay&link=174286&bolum=100]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">According to the Arms … war, it added.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">We will inevitably remove tnws in the future[[#x-Shirley_Round_Four-Ingram_9]]</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ingram 9</span>** (Paul Ingram, Executive Director, British American Security Information Council, April 2009, “Eliminating battlefield nuclear weapons from Europe and moving towards the adoption of a non-nuclear weapon security doctrine for the Alliance,” in “The Shadow NATO Summit: Options for NATO - pressing the reset button on the strategic concept,” British American Security Information Council, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.basicint.org/pubs/natoshadow.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">I conclude by observing …. in the Alliance warn of.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Status quo withdrawal will be long and slow</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Allyn </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Gaestel,</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> May 6th, 20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10</span>, “</span><span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">Countdown to Zero attempts to re-energize the nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation process” European Newswire, </span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; font-size: 7pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.europanewsblog.com/2010/05/countdown-to-zero-attempts-to-reenergize-the-nuclear-disarmament-and-nonproliferation-process-.html]]</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt;">The movement toward </span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt;">….</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt;"> free of nuclear weapons</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt;">.</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black;">Debate on TNW’s is inevitable</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Tetrais, 08</span>** [Bruno Tertrais, Senior Research Fellow, Foundation for Strategic Research, 9-26-2008, Real Instituto Elcano, The Coming NATO Nuclear Debate, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.isodarco.it/courses/andalo10/doc/ARI117-2008_Tetrais_NATO_Nuclear_Debate.pdf]]</span>]</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">__It is the contention …__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and missile defence policy.</span></span>
= = 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Plan: <span style="font-weight: normal;">The United States federal government should eliminate its B-61 Tactical Nuclear Weapons in the Republic of Turkey.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Contention 2: Nuclear Zero**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Now is the key time to act towards a world free of nuclear weapons</span>**</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Nato Watch</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, May 14th, 20**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10</span>**, “NGO Statement on Tactical Nuclear Weapons” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://natowatch.org/node/358]]</span></span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">As the United States…<span style="font-size: 7pt;">weapons more likely.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**We’ll isolate several internal links to denuclearization -**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**a. Removal of TNW’s in turkey causes a movement towards de-escalation**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Bell 09</span>__ (Alexandria, Alexandra Bell is a Project Manager at the Ploughshares Fund and a Truman National Security Fellow, “Turkey’s Nuclear Crossroads”, http://www.good.is/post/turkeys-nuclear-crossroads/)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">On April 5, 2009, …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">long road to zero</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">.</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**b. turkey is uniquely key**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Bell 09</span>** (Alexandria, Alexandra Bell is a Project Manager at the Ploughshares Fund and a Truman National Security Fellow, “Turkey’s Nuclear Crossroads”, http://www.good.is/post/turkeys-nuclear-crossroads/,)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Getting the five …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> happen</span>__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">in concert.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**c.** **it’s the most important first step**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Lale **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Sariibrahimoglu</span>**, May 04th, 20**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">09</span>**, Expert from the Jamestown Foundation on the world of Terrorism, “Turkey to face pressure over US nukes on its soil” http://www.todayszaman.com/tz-web/detaylar.do?load=detay&link=174286&bolum=100 )</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">"However, since the …</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Turkey,"</span>__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">he asserts.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**d. it spills over**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Kelleher 09</span>** (Catherine, writer for the Arms Control Association, “Getting to Zero Starts Here: Tactical Nuclear Weapons”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_10/Kelleher]]</span>,)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">The question of how…complicated political context.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**e.** **the perception is enough to solve**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Joe </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Ciricione</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-weight: normal;">,</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> November 6th, 20</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">09</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">, “The Impact of Nuclear Posture on Non-Proliferation” Ploughshares Fund, </span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ploughshares.org/news-analysis/blog/impact-nuclear-posture-non-proliferation]]</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">__The nuclear posture ….<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">by terrorist groups</span>__.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**f. that means other reductions won’t solve**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 6pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Richard **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Weitz,</span>** Nuclear policy expert, “Turkey Analyst” April 12th, 20**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10</span>**, http://www.silkroadstudies.org/new/inside/turkey/2010/100412-TRA.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 6pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Today, Turkey remains ….security and defense initiatives.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Nuclear zero makes wars less destructive</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 12pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black;">Sagan 09</span>**<span style="color: black;"> [Scott D. Sagan, a Fellow of the American Academy since 2008, is Professor of Political Science and Codirector of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University. He is Codirector of the American Academy's Initiative on the Global Nuclear Future, Daedalus. Boston: Fall 2009. Vol. 138, Iss. 4; pg. 157, 13 pgs]</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Some are pessimistic about …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> wisdom and prudence</span>____.__</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Contention 3: Nukes are evil**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**1. first, conventional primacy**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**a. plan allows for American conventional superiority – key to military primacy and deterrence**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Lind 09</span>** [Michael, ed of the New American Contract and the New America Foundation, “How I learned to stop worrying and live with the bomb,” Salon, 10-13, salon.com/opinion/feature/2009/10/13/nuclear_weapons/index.html]</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">President Obama's Nobel Peace …</span>__weapons of mass destruction.__</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="color: black;">b. plan’s movement towards disarm allows flexibility and is a more credible threat – it independently boosts US military primacy</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black;">Dujarric</span>** <span style="color: black;">3-4-**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10 </span>**[Robert Dujarric runs the Institute of Contemporary Asian Studies, Temple University, Japan Campus, “The Obama bid to rid the world of nuclear weapons boosts US security -- minus the threat of Armageddon, Christian Science Monitor, </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/Opinion/2010/0304/The-Obama-bid-to-rid-the-world-of-nuclear-weapons-boosts-US-security-minus-the-threat-of-Armageddon]]</span><span style="color: black;">]</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">As tensions over …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> capabilities and deterrence</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**c. That’s key to deter and defuse conflicts with Russia and China---prevents them from aggressively expanding their sphere of influence**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Grant 9</span>** – Rebecca Grant, Ph.D., is a senior fellow of the Lexington Institute, March 18, 2009, “Russia, China preparing new challenges to the United States,” UPI, online: http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2009/03/18/Russia-China-preparing-new-challenges-to-the-United-States/UPI-65681237385842/</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black;">The balance in … shaping those collisions</span>__<span style="color: black;">.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**d. Russian aggression causes nuclear war**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Cohen </span>**1/25/**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">96</span>** - Ariel, Senior Policy Analyst @ Heritage (Heritage Foundation Reports, l/n)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Much is at stake in…</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">militancy more difficult.</span>__</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**e.** **<span style="color: black;">shift to conventional deterrence would establish overwhelming American air dominance – key to power projection</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black;">Scoblic 09</span>**<span style="color: black;"> [J. Peter Scoblic, J. Peter Scoblic is executive editor of the New Republic, “The hawkish case for nuclear disarmament,” 8-16, </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://articles.latimes.com/2009/aug/16/opinion/oe-scoblic16]]</span><span style="color: black;">]</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">D<span style="font-size: 7pt;">uring the Cold War…</span> __us from an attack__.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**f. Airpower is key to solve multiple nuclear conflicts in Asia.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Tellis 98</span>__ – Ashley J. Tellis et al, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, Sources Of Conflict In The 21st Century, availible via the rand website @ rand.org. chapter 3, 1998</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The first key implication….Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**2. second is nuclear deterrence**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**nuclear deterrence**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**a.** **The theory of nuclear deterrence is empirically flawed**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 3pt; padding: 0px;">Robert **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Green</span>__**, June 8th, 20**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10</span>__**, “Nuclear Deterrence Scam Blocking Progress to a Safer World” Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; font-size: 11pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/db_article.php?print&article_id=92]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In a statement on …anyone else has them."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**c. These coming regional disputes can only be addressed with conventional deterrence. Our ev is comparative**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Lichtenstein 02</span> – Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army [WENDY L. LICHTENSTEIN, “CONVENTIONAL MILITARY DETERRENCE - ITS RISE TO DOMINANCE AND ITS FUTURE,” U.S. Army War College Strategy Research Project, 28 February 2002]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">However, __nuclear weapons… message to an adversary__.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**3. third is prolif**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**2 internal links to stopping it:**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**a.** **nuclear deterrence encourages prolif and undermines the concept of deterrence itself**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">C. Raja **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Mohan</span>__**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=socialscientist|//__Social Scientist__//]]</span>, Vol. 14, No. 4 (Apr., 19**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">86</span>__**), pp. 3-19, “The Tragedy of Nuclear Deterrence” Published by: <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=socialscien|__Social Scientist__]]</span>, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; font-size: 11pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3517177?seq=10]]</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Just as <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">the doctrine </span>… consequences of MIRV technology.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">b. TNW’s in Turkey cause Iran Prolif – they are perceived as a threat and act as a justification for Iran</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Kibaroglu 10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Mustafa, Fellow at the </span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Harvard University’s BelferCenter for Science and International Affairs, the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, the International Atomic Energy Agency, and the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#bio)</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because of the view ….</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> ambitious nuclear capabilities.</span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**now, there are multiple impacts to these internal links**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">a. </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Iran prolif makes global prolif and destabilization inevitable</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ackerman 09</span>** (Gary is part of the Presidential Task Force on Iranian Proliferation, Regional Security, and U.S. Policy, Washington Institute for Near East Policy, “Preventing a Cascade of Instability: U.S. Engagement to Check Iranian Nuclear Progress,” March, p. 2 http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/pubPDFs/PTF-Iran.pdf )</span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">If Iran “gets away” at … region is inevitable.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">b. any conflict causes extinction in a world of prolif</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt;">Utgoff,</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">Deputy Director of Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division</span> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt;">02</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">of Institute for Defense Analysis (Victor A., Summer 2002, Survival, p.87-90 Victor A Utgoff, Deputy Director of Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of Institute for Defense Analysis, Summer 2002, Survival, p.87-90)</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">In sum, widespread <span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-weight: normal;">… or even whole nations.</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**c. A nuclear Iran ignites the several extinction scenarios – and makes every impact more likely**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Morgan, </span>**Professor of Foreign Studies at Hankuk University**, 20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">09</span>** (Dennis, __Futures__, December, Vol. 41 Issue: Number 10, Ebsco, GS)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">__Given the present…a nuclear holocaust.__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">d. Nuclear Iran causes Chinese aggression against Taiwan and makes military presence in Asia unsustainable</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black;">Zambelis ‘7</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Chris, Associate – Helios Global (International Political Risk Analysis), China Brief 7:23, “The Iranian Nuclear Question in U.S.-China Relations”, 12-13, </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jamestown.org/china_brief/article.php?articleid=2373858]]</span><span style="color: black;">)</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Any combination of these …</span> __containing China in East Asia__.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**e. aggression towards Taiwan guarantees multiple hotspots for nuclear war**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 12pt; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="citebold"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">The Straits Times</span></span>, June 25, <span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">20</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">00</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Regional Fallout: No One Gains in War Over Taiwan. Straits Times. Lexis | SWON)</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">The high-intensity …</span>__<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> destruction of civilisation</span></span>.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">f. moving away from nuclear weapons solves every impact</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Mueller</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Professor of IR, </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">1</span> </span>Harald, Prof International Relations at Univ. Frankfurt “The Future of Arms Control”, Nuclear Weapons: A New Great Debate</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-weight: normal;">Globally, non-</span></span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">proliferation</span>__** …<span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> can then be directed</span></span>**.**</span>



=Negative= 
[[#x*NEGATIVE*-ASPEC]]
==[[#x*NEGATIVE*-T- Presence]]Topicality== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**ASPEC**</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1. Interpretation: **the aff must specify the actor that does the plan because the USFG is three branches**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Alabama Law Review</span></span>, 20<span class="Heading2Char">0<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2</span></span> (l/n)**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span class="UnderliningChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The Framers </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by splitting it between two Houses of Congress.</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2. Prefer it:</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">a. ground**- critical to actor based disads like politics and agent counterplans like courts**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">b. education**- they obliterate it**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Elmore</span>, Prof. Public Affairs at University of Washington, PolySci Quarterly 79-80, p. 605, 19<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">80</span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">The emergence of implementation as a subject for policy analysis coincides closely with the discovery by policy analysts that decisions are not self-executing. <span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Analysis of policy</span> choices <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">matter</span> very <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">…realm of implementation</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span></span>**</span>

=== === 
===__**T- Presence**__=== 


1. Interpretation: **military presence is bases**
**__<span style="background: aqua;">Meernik,</span> 19<span style="background: aqua;">94</span>__ (James Meernik, Prof. and chair of polisci at UNT, Specializes in U.S. Foreign Policy Ph. D. in polisci from MSU, , University of North Texas, International Studies Quarterly, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Presidential Decision Making and the Political Use of Military Force,” Volume 38, p. 127)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The level of American involvement … neutral parties alike.</span>**



2. Violation **- The aff doesn’t mandate a reduction in bases**

3. Vote Neg

A. Limits - **allows combinations of branches of the military, to stop missions or certain soldiers, there are only a set number of bases**

B. Ground – **closing of bases is necessary for perception, relations, trip-wire and credibility arguments**
**__<span style="background: aqua;">Meernik,</span> 19<span style="background: aqua;">94</span>__ (James Meernik, University of North Texas, International Studies Quarterly, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Presidential Decision Making and the Political Use of Military Force,” Volume 38, p. 127)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Military Presence. </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> presence increase the level of the military response</span>**

====**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC Cards</span>**==== 

**Also, bases are the centerpiece of military involvement, critical to ground and education**
<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Lutz, 9</span> – **professor of International Studies at Brown (Catherine, The Bases of Empire: The Global Struggle Against U.S. Military Posts, p. 6, google books)**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Bases are the literal</span> …</span> to push back or expel the bases altogether.**

===T- Combat Troops=== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">A. Presence requires regular, non-combat activities – forces in combat or one-time missions aren’t T </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Thomason, 2** – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">”</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> July, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">By this definition, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: yellow;">forces</span> that ... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia;">an evolving security operation or contingency should call for them</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**B. Violation** – the aff ends combat missions, doesn’t reduce presence.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">C. Voting issue - </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">1. limits – allowing combat missions allows affs to change specific strategies in Afghanistan or Iraq, like ending cluster bombing without actually reducing forces themselves, it explodes the literature base</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">2. negative ground – presence missions are about deterrence and reassurance – including combat missions avoids core negative disads</span>


==Counterplans== 
===[[#x*NEGATIVE*-Courts CP]]Courts CP=== 
Courts do plan

**solvency**- we solve the aff
**Christine <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Bateup</span></span> (historical scholar and JSD Candidate at NYU, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">200<span style="background: aqua;">6</span></span></span>. (71 Brooklyn L. Rev. 1109, “The Dialogic Promise Assessing The Normative Potential of Theories of Constitutional Dialogue,” ln)**

**The most prominent descriptions of constitutional dialogue in …<span class="DebateUnderline"> questions of constitutional meaning</span>__.__ 194**

**net benefit-** courts avoid politics
<span style="background-color: aqua;">Rosenberg, 92, </span>**[Gerald N. , “Judicial Independence and the Reality of Political Power”, Political Science Professor at University of Chicago, //jstor//]**

**__<span style="background: aqua;">The independence </span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To laypeople, lawyers, and social scientists alike, judicial independence is central to American government</span>**

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**competition**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">- </span></span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">the counterplan doesn’t reduce, merely effects a reduction – Court orders are dependent on other actors for implementation</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="background: aqua;">Hanson ‘6</span>__** (John D. Hanson, Adam Benforado, “The Drifters: Why the Supreme Court makes justices more liberal,” Boston Review, 31(1), Jan/Feb 2006, http://works.bepress.com/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=adam_benforado)</span>

====**A2 Courts link to Politics**==== 

**Recent DADT decision proves Obama shifts blame to the courts**
**__Spakovsky '10__** (Hans von Spakovsky, Senior Legal Fellow at The Heritage Foundation and former Counsel to the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights at the Justice Department, “Don’t Ask, I’ll Just Tell You What the Law Should Be: Log Cabin Republicans v. United States,” Heritage Foundation, 9-10-2010, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/09/dont-ask-ill-just-tell-you-what-the-law-should-be-log-cabin-republicans-v-united-states)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In Log Cabin Republicans v. … opinion that reads more like a press release than a legal judgment.</span>

**Independent court action shields the link**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Heise</span>,__** Michael **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2k</span>__** Professor of Law at Case Western Michael, “Education and the Constitution: Shaping each other and the next century: Preliminary Thoughts on the Virtues of Passive Dialogue,”
Akron law Review, 34 Akron L. Rev. 73] (Akron Law Review, p. Lexis / 34 Akron L. Rev. 73

[[#_Toc146116139]][[#_Toc146115476]][[#_Toc146115390]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Paul <span class="HeaderChar">Tractenberg</span>, …<span class="HeaderChar"> judicial credibility is undermined</span>. 84 </span>

**Independent court action shields the link**- empirically proven
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Altmann</span>, 200<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">7</span>,** [Jennifer Greenstein Altmann, 6/18/07, “Pillars of politicos? Whittington examines high court justices”, Princeton News, masters degree at Northwestern, Princeton University, [[http://www.princeton.edu/communications/about/staff/greenstein_altmann/]]]

In his new book, "…. __it was an evolution."__

**Courts let politicians take non-controversial stance and still take action**
<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Stoutenborough et al. 6</span> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James, Political Science Dept @ Utah, Reassessing the Impact of Supreme Court Decisions on Public Opinion, Political Research Quarterly, p. 419 </span>
In many cases, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">courts have </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;"> will correct their mistake.86</span>

====**A2 Perm do the CP**==== 


**Normal means for the plan is congress, two reasons**

**a. ensured by authority**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Elsea, Garcia and Nicola</span>** **0<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">8</span>**- (Jennifer K. Elsea, Michael John Garcia, and Thomas J. Nicola, Legislative Attorneys, American Law Division [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RL33837.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Congress has </span>….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> these points in greater detail. </span>

**b. empirics**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Elsea, Garcia and Nicola</span>** **0<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">8</span>**- (Jennifer K. Elsea, Michael John Garcia, and Thomas J. Nicola, Legislative Attorneys, “Congressional Authority to Limit U.S. Military Operations in Iraq” American Law Division [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RL33837.pdf]])

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Congress has </span>used its ….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> appropriated or nonappropriated funds.127 </span>



===Iraq PIC CP=== 
**Calling it Aram Nahrin is a prerequisite to any plan for stability in the Mesopatamia**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Megalommatis 07</span>__</span> Prof. Dr. Muhammad Shamsaddin Megalommatis 5/12/2007 “The Only Peaceful 'Iraq' is a confederation named Aram Nahrin - Mesopotamia” (Athens University (Classical Studies, Ancient Greek and Latin, Greek and Roman History, Art History, Archaeology, Religion, Mythology, Literature and Philosophy) Institut Francais d' Athenes Language and Literature Degrees (in French Literature) Institut National des Langues et Civilisations Orientales (Russian Literature Arabic Language) Institut d' Etudes Politiques de Paris DEA Bien (Political Sciences, Eastern European, Slavic and Soviet Studies)

Before a week, <span class="DebateUnderline">__a useless and rather … and colonial criminality.__ </span>

**Calling it Iraq perpetuate a view of the nation that ignores ethnic, cultural and historical backgrounds—that’s simply works to justify Colonialist conceptions of the Middle East**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Megalommatis 07</span>__</span> Prof. Dr. Muhammad Shamsaddin Megalommatis 5/12/2007 “The Only Peaceful 'Iraq' is a confederation named Aram Nahrin - Mesopotamia” (Athens University (Classical Studies, Ancient Greek and Latin, Greek and Roman History, Art History, Archaeology, Religion, Mythology, Literature and Philosophy) Institut Francais d' Athenes Language and Literature Degrees (in French Literature) Institut National des Langues et Civilisations Orientales (Russian Literature Arabic Language) Institut d' Etudes Politiques de Paris DEA Bien (Political Sciences, Eastern European, Slavic and Soviet Studies)

<span class="DebateUnderline">__The basic problem of Iraq was …__(or Muqtada Sadr’s) __<span style="background-color: yellow;">Iraq</span>.__ </span>

**These discursive misunderstandings create a dangerous dichotomy between the West and the Muslim**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Talbot 08</span>__</span> (Steven, Defence Science and Technology Organisation, Sociological Research Online 13(1)17 'Us' and 'Them': Terrorism, Conflict and (O)<span style="background-color: yellow;">ther</span> Discursive Formations, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.socresonline.org.uk/13/1/17.html]]</span>)

Sociology of the enemy examines __…<span style="background-color: yellow;"> West and ‘Rest’ has the effect of silencing dissenting voices residing within both camps</span>.__

**This dichotomy is used to perpetuate the persona of the West as rational and the Oriental others as dangerous**
<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Teffelen 95</span>__</span> Toine van Teffelen, Prof. in Discourse Analysis @ Birzeit Univ, ’95 [//The Decolonization of imagination: Culture, Knowledge, and Power//, p. 113-8]

A major methodological problem in the study of … of metaphor.

**The endpoint of this discursive dichotomy is war**

<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v007/7.3enns.html]]</span>)

Agamben warns that <span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;">we currently </span>____…__</span> a state of emergency.

====**A2 Perm do Both**==== 
**3. Manipulation D/A---**

**A) Colonialist manipulation relies precisely on watering down ethnic clarity and __confusing__ the terms of the debate---allows the state to consistently alter and fluctuate between terminology**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Bohm 03</span>__</span> Robert Bohm, Campaign Coordinator for Deleware Green Party, 3/19/03 (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.gp.org/articles/bohm_03_19_03.shtml]]</span>)

The idea that scorching sections of the …__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> morality.</span>__


**B) Absolute clarity is crucial to combat the routinization of murder and the sovereign control of language that caused instability in Aram Nahrin in the first place**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Kehl and Livingston 99</span>__</span> D.G. Kehl and Howard Livingston, English at Arizona State University and Pace University, July 1999 (//English Journal//88.6)

On the other hand, though, the present … to be truthful—but with the implication of ongoing probing and testing of evidence.)

**4. Any residual link is enough---must reject doublethink in EVERY instance**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Kehl and Livingston 99</span>__</span> D.G. Kehl and Howard Livingston, English at Arizona State University and Pace University, July 1999 (//English Journal//88.6)
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Doublespeak is not a frivolous game …</span>__**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> vulnerability in all forms</span>__****__.__**


====**A2 Perm do the CP**==== 
**linguicide---their use of the term ‘Iraq’ in the plan has committed an act of linguistic violence---their attempt to permute now is just a semantic game that continues to debase our collective consciousness**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Kellner 92</span>__</span> Douglas Kellner, philosophy at UCLA, 1992 (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/papers/gulfwar6.htm]]</span>)

<span class="DebateUnderline">Euphemisms for killing emerged</span>, such as …<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> our social interactions</span>____.__ </span>
===Other 2NC Cards=== 
**CP key to solve--- false Western framings of the Mesopotamia make instability and the colonialist exploitation of the Middle East inevitable**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Megalommatis 07</span>__</span> Prof. Dr. Muhammad Shamsaddin Megalommatis 5/12/2007 “The Only Peaceful 'Iraq' is a confederation named Aram Nahrin - Mesopotamia” (Athens University (Classical Studies, Ancient Greek and Latin, Greek and Roman History, Art History, Archaeology, Religion, Mythology, Literature and Philosophy) Institut Francais d' Athenes Language and Literature Degrees (in French Literature) Institut National des Langues et Civilisations Orientales (Russian Literature Arabic Language) Institut d' Etudes Politiques de Paris DEA Bien (Political Sciences, Eastern European, Slavic and Soviet Studies)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Certainly there is absolutely …<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> and missionary way</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>__</span> </span>

**Exploitative words are violent—they are __the driving cause__ of political violence.**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Mohan 93</span>__</span> (Brij, Professor of Social Work, Louisiana State University, Eclipse of Freedom, p 3-4, )
Metaphors of existence symbolize variegated aspects of the human reality. However, __<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">words can be apocalyptic</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">"There are words," de Beauvoir writes, "as murderous as gas chambers</span>" (1968: 30). __<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Expressions can be unifying and explosive<span style="background-color: yellow;">; they portray explicit messages and implicit agendas in human </span>…</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> shape</span> and __<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">substance of </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">each <span style="background-color: yellow;">analytical output</span></span>__.
===**Debt Commission CP**=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Debt Commission put the plan in part of its recommendations The counterplan solves the case and avoids politics – the structure of the commission guarantees congressional support Peter Orszag, Distinguished Visiting Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relation and former Director of the Office of Management and Budget, March 2010. “Putting Our Fiscal House in Order,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://thehill.com/opinion/op-ed/84305-putting-our-fiscal-house-in-order?page=2#comments]]</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">To report out a recommenation, ...</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">distinguished leaders. </span>__The counterplan reduces military presence abroad William D. <span style="background-color: aqua;">Hartung</span>, director of the Arms and Security Initiative at the New America Foundation and a member of the Sustainable Defense Task Force, 6/29/20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span>. Middle East Online, “What Price Defense?” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.middle-east-online.com/english/opinion/?id=39818]]</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is where public pressure should ...tools of US security. </span>The CP results in the plan and avoids the politics link – empirically proven <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The Nashua Telegraph</span> 20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span>. “Deficit-cutting panel a missed opportunity,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nashuatelegraph.com/opinion/editorials/612140-263/deficit-cutting-panel-a-missed-opportunity.html]]</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">White House press secretary</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">negative political fallout.</span>__</span>

===BMD Advantage CP=== 
The United States federal government should fully fund and support cooperation with the government of Japan on developing and deploying Terminal High Altitude Area Defense systems in Japan. The United States should discontinue its Navy Theater-Wide missile defense presence in Japan.
The United States should engage the People’s Republic of China in a diplomatic and military strategic dialogue regarding missile defense.
The United States federal government should offer to broaden environmental cooperation with the People’s Liberation Army through the Pacific Command Theater Security Cooperation program
CP solves the case – THAADs reassure China and allow effective arms control without undermining deterrence

Completely abandoning missile defense emboldens China – redirecting efforts towards THAAD maintains deterrence
Colonel Patrick M. **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">O’Donogue</span>**, USMC, **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2k</span>** “<span style="color: black;">THEATER MISSILE DEFENSE IN JAPAN: IMPLICATIONS FOR THE U.S.-CHINA-JAPAN STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIP,” www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States has four viable options in regard to Northeast Asia theater missile …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;"> toward long-term peace and stability in</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Northeast </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">China</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
Dialogue solves miscalc and prolif – also allows spin control
Lt. Col. Mark **Hughes**, National Defense University, **1997**. “Why the US Must Pursue a Cooperative Japanese - US Theater Missile Defense Program,” www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In concert with the Japanese, __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">we must engage China</span>__ and …__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> on ballistic missiles and</span>__ </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 14pt;">w</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">eapons of </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 14pt;">m</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ass </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 14pt;">d</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">estruction</span>


Environmental cooperation solves miscalc and war
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Dabelko & Butts, ‘9</span>__ <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Kent Hughes, director of the National Security Issues Branch in the Center for Strategic Leadership at the US Army War College, & Geoffrey D. director of the Woodrow Wilson Center's Environmental Change and Security Program, “One way to boost US-China military cooperation,” Christian Science Monitor, April 21, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.csmonitor.com/2009/0421/p09s01-coop.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Recently, __the Defense …__ sea levels, but also to __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">avoid dangerous incidents in midair or on the high seas</span>.__</span>

THAAD exists and work
William **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Perry</span>**, Professor at Stanford University and former Secretary of Defense under Clinton, **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">and</span>** James **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Schlesinger</span>** et al, former Secretary of Energy, Defense, and Director of Central Intelligence **200<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">9</span>**. “America’s Strategic Posture: The Final Report of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.usip.org/strategic-posture-commission/view-the-report]]</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The U</span>__nited __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">S</span>__tates __…__ Korean or Iranian missiles increase
==Kritiks== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**REP PIK** </span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The structure of their argument undermines feminism—the claim that a single link results in a big “root cause” impact marginalizes struggles against other forms of violence and discrimination we endorse the entirety of the 1ac except the representations as gender of the root cause of all impacts**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">Crenshaw 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Carrie Crenshaw PhD, Former President of CEDA, “Perspectives In Controversy: Selected Articles from Contemporary Argumentation and Debate” 2002 p. 119-126]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__Feminism is__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> not dead. … societal consciousness raising.</span></span>

===Cap 1st=== 

The affirmative is the most dangerous form of identity politics –their argument that we must engage only pedagogies of the oppressed assumes that only the oppressed can define their oppression – this is disastrous because it denies the possibility of coalition building which is essential to any progressive struggle against capitalism
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span>** leading member of the US International Socialist Organization,**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 1994</span>**
Sharon, International Socialism 62 Spring, [[http://www.isj.org.uk/index.php4?id=311]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Among many people on ….</span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">in a common struggle</span>. </span>

Capitalism is the root cause of all oppression – only our criticism can solve for broader forms of oppression
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith,</span></span> leading member of the US International Socialist Organization, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1994</span></span>
Sharon, International Socialism 62 Spring, [[http://www.isj.org.uk/index.php4?id=311]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In contrast, </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the </span>…. is one and the same. </span>

**Cap not sustainable- environment**
Dr. Chris H. **__Lewis__**, **__2000__**, Professor of American Studies, University of Colorado-Boulder, Ph.D., M.A. American Studies, University of Minnesota, B.A. Psychology, San Diego State University, “The Paradox of Global Development and the Necessary Collapse of Global Industrial Civilization,” Published on Cross-x.com, [[http://www.cross-x.com/archives/LewisParadox.pdf]]
**__With the withdrawal__** **__…__**__life on Earth__.

**Capitalist economic ideology provides the only scenario for all forms of internal and external violence and war- creates the conditions that allow it to exists- empirical data sides neg**
Dr. David **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Adams</span>__**, 200**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2</span>__**, former UNESCO Director of the Unit for the International Year for the Culture of Peace, former Professor of Psychology (for 23 years) at Wesleyan University, specialist on the brain mechanisms of aggressive behavior and the evolution of war, “Chapter 8: The Root Causes of War,” //The American Peace Movements//, p. 22-28, [[http://www.culture-of-peace.info/apm/chapter8-22.html]]
As shown in the …**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the military-industrial complex</span>__**.


Our alternative is to completely withdraw from the ideology of capital – this is essential to destroy the fetish that allows capital to survive
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnston,</span></span> interdisciplinary research fellow in psychoanalysis at Emory University, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span></span>
(Adrian, Psychoanalysis, Culture & Society, December v9 i3 p259 page infotrac gjm)


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps the absence …I choose fetishism"). </span>


==Disads[[#x*NEGATIVE*-Russia DA]]== 
===Russia DA=== 
[[#x*NEGATIVE*-Russia DA-1NC]]**1NC**
__Uniqueness__- **U.S. Russian relations high**
__<span style="background: aqua;">Butler</span>__ **6/24/**__<span style="background: aqua;">10</span>____<span style="background: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">(</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Desmond, The Associated Press, “Obama, Medvedev Say 'Reset' US-Russia Relations”)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Barack </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background: aqua;">Obama declared</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">… last time will not repeat," he said.</span>**

Link- U.S. Withdrawal from Afghanistan causes kills U.S.-Russian Relations,

**Gordon M** <span style="background-color: aqua;">Hahn</span> **<span style="color: black;">5/21/200</span>**<span style="background-color: aqua; color: black;">9</span> **<span style="color: black;">senior researcher, Monterey Terrorism Research and Education Program, and visiting assistant professor, Graduate School of International Policy Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, California; senior researcher, Center for Terrorism and Intelligence Studies (CETIS), Akribis Group, California; and analyst/consultant</span>. “U.s. Russian relations and the war against jihadism" __<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf%20p.%208-9|http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf p. 8-9]]</span>__ ZM**
**<span style="color: black;">However, </span>__<span style="background: aqua; color: black;">there is some </span>____<span style="color: black;">…</span>__ __<span style="color: black;">can only benefit the region’s jihadists.</span>__<span class="A7">__6__</span>**

Relations key to solve accidental nuclear war
<span style="background-color: aqua;">Cohen 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, [[http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen]], AMiles)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Cohen: The real concern I have with this "…tanks, can connect these dots.</span>**

===Iran DA=== 
**U.S. Military presence in Afghanistan is essential to containing Iran –drawdowns cause Iranian resurgence**
**Michael <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ruben</span></span> (Resident scholar at American Enterprise Institute and holds a PHD in History from Yale University) November<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span></span> “Can a Nuclear Iran Be Contained or Deterred?”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.aei.org/outlook/28896]]</span>**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">If U.S. forces are to contain the Islamic Republic</span></span><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">they will require … United States would have difficulty remaining aloof.</span> </span></span>**

**That causes global nuclear war and extinction**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hirsch ’05</span></span> (Jorge, Can A Nuclear Strike on Iran Be Averted, Anti-War, 11-21, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.antiwar.com/orig/hirsch.php?articleid=8089]]</span>)**
**The Bush administration has put together … approximately <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/1997/00/00_babst_consequences.htm|one million times that of the Hiroshima bomb]]</span>, <span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">enough to erase Earth's population many times over</span></span>.**
==== ==== 
====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**2NC Links**</span>==== 

**Withdrawal from Afghanistan Emboldens Iran**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Carroll</span></span>, Heritage Foundation's Strategic Communications Assistant Director, 200<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">9</span></span>
Conn, “19 Reasons to Win in Afghanistan” <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://blog.heritage.org/2009/10/02/19-reasons-to-win-in-afghanistan/]]</span>, Accessed 7/17/10
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-left: 0in;">As the host … U.S. force posture. </span>

**US bases are seen as attempts by the US to intimidate Iran**
<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Capaccio</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10</span></span></span> (Tony, May, Aletho News, http://alethonews.wordpress.com/2010/05/21/pentagon-plan-to-beef-up-afghan-base-near-iran-may-rile-regime/, date accessed: 7/2/2010)
<span class="underline0">A U.S. plan .. necessary,” </span>he said.


**Mil pres key**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Leverett</span></span>, Yale University, Jackson Institute for Global Affairs Senior Lecturer/Research Fellow, <span class="tagChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">7/13/</span></span>2010
Hillary Mann Leverett. CEO of Strategic Energy and Global Analysis (STRATEGA), a political risk consultancy. Appointed as Senior Lecturer and Senior Research Fellow at Yale University’s Jackson Institute for Global Affairs. 20 years of academic, legal, business, diplomatic, and policy experience working on Middle Eastern issues. The Race for Iran. July 13, 2010. HILLARY MANN LEVERETT ON IRAN AND THE MIDDLE EAST PEACE PROCESS. http://www.raceforiran.com/. Accessed 7/16/10.
<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">To this day… taken very seriously.</span> </span>

====CBW Impact==== 

**Iran will respond will chemical weapons**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brom ’05</span></span> (Shlomo ,- thirty-year veteran of the IDF, currently a guest scholar in the Center for Conflict Analysis and Prevention “Getting Ready for Nuclear Iran” http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub629.pdf)
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">I<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">f an Israeli </span>.. attack in Iran. </span></span>

**Extinction**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Steinbruner, 97</span></span> (John D., Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution, and Vice Chair, Committee on International Security and Arms Control, National Academy of Sciences,“Biological Weapons: A Plague Upon All Houses” – Foreign Policy) p. lexis)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Although human … its outer limit.</span>



===SK Presence DA=== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Plan kills SK relations </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: aqua;">Kline 3</span> (Colonel Gary S., December 10th 2003 US Army War College, “US Strategy Toward North Korea”)</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;">In contrast to the containment strategy… in terms of vital U.S. national interests.</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Plan causes SK prolif </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="background: lime;">Hughes</span>, 200<span style="background: lime;">7</span> </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[Christopher W., PhD University of Sheffield, 1997, Reader/Associate Professor, University of Warwick. “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan,” January, Asia Policy No 3, http://www.nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP3/AP3Hughes.pdf] </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: lime;">South Korea’s history of </span>..__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">thus enabling the reaffirmation of U.S. security guarantees.54 </span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Relations solve a laundry list of impacts </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="background: lime;">Sharp</span> 20<span style="background: lime;">10</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Gen. Walter Sharp, Commander, United Nations Command/Combined Forces Command/U.S. Forces Korea, Congressional Documents and Publications, March 26) Calum </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">A </span>__<span style="background: lime;">key part of U.S.</span> security <span style="background: lime;">policy</span> in Asia … national interest to the U.S.__ </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">SK prolif Escalates to global nuclear war </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial;">Cirincione, 2k</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The blocks would fall quickest and… </span>__<span style="background: lime;">weapon</span> since__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>__45__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span> </span>

===SK Econ DA=== 

<span class="Underline">**Plan guts investment in South Korea which collapses its economy** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Magnum 04**- Brigadier Commanding General for Special Operations in South Korea (Spring 2004, Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, “Joint Force Training: Key to ROK Military Transformation”, pg online @ [http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/13/06_ronald_s_mangum.pdf]//au)// </span>
//<span class="Underline"> <span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">Many </span>Koreans ….<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;"> necessary to improve the capability of its forces. </span> </span> **South Korean economy is key to Asian democracy** **NEWSWEEK** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">1-29-</span>**2010**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Selling South Korea,” [[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/01/28/selling-south-korea.html]]) Calum In short, the South Korean …</span>__, that of China."__ **Extinction** **Diamond, 95**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, Professor of Political Science and Sociology and Coordinator of the Democracy Program at the the Center on Democracy at Stanford University (Larry, "Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and instruments, issues and imperatives : a report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict", December 1995, June 26th 2010, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/di.htm, KONTOPOULOS) </span> <span style="tab-stops: .25in;">__Nuclear, chemical, and biological <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">weapons</span>…__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> destruction of their environments. </span></span> <span class="Underline">**Plan kills U.S. Economy** **Kinne 04**- Colonel and US Army Researcher (5/3/04, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea” pg online @ [http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691]</span>//















au)

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Strategic </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">withdrawal of U.S</span>…the global marketplace. </span>

**Global nuclear war**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Mead 09</span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, New Republic, February 4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">So far, such half-hearted …</span> __we may still <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">have to fight.</span>__



==Politics== 
===START - St Marks=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">START will pass by the end of the year</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Global Security Newswire 10/6. http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20101006_5463.php</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;">The Obama administration ... Gottemoeller said. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><Link></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">PC Key</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="background: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Rogov</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 20<span style="background: aqua;">10</span></span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> (1/20/10Sergey, director of the Russian Academy of Sciences Institute of the United States of America and Canada, in an Interview by Vasiliy Voropayev, Russian pundit views Obama 's first year, prospects for relations with USA, lexis, BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union – Political, lexis) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="background: aqua;">__Given the existence ...__</span></span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> between Russia and the United States. </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Start solves relations</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Pifer</span> 2008 [Steven Pifer, a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution, is a retired foreign service officer who worked on Russia and arms control, Boston Globe, June 9, http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2008/06/09/traveling_the_road_to_nuclear_reduction/]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__Third, <span style="background: aqua;">returning to arms control<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">... </span></span>____well as to reduce the nuclear threat.__ </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline0">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Relations key to solve accidental nuclear war </span>__</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline0"><span style="background: aqua;">Cohen 10</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">—</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Step</span></span></span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline0"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">hen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen, AMiles) </span></span></span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline0"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cohen: The real concern ... can connect these dots.</span> </span></span>__</span>
===START - Meadows=== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11.5pt;">Start is passing now – momentum ensures ratification </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Yevgeny **<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Kryshkin,</span>** “</span>Accident in Wyoming strongly argues for START ratification“ [[http://english.ruvr.ru/2010/10/28/29104667.html%2010/28/10|http://english.ruvr.ru/2010/10/28/29104667.html 10/28/**10**]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: aqua;">The U.S. military </span>____…__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">party will need the support of 8 Republicans to ratify START</span>. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><link></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**PC Key**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="background: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Rogov</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 20<span style="background: aqua;">10</span></span></span></span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> (1/20/10Sergey, director of the Russian Academy of Sciences Institute of the United States of America and Canada, in an Interview by Vasiliy Voropayev, Russian pundit views Obama 's first year, prospects for relations with USA, lexis, BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union – Political, lexis) </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span class="underline0">**__<span style="background: aqua;">Given the existence </span>…__** </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">will take part. That cannot happen without collaboration between Russia and the United States. </span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Start solves relations </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="background: aqua;">Pifer</span> 200<span style="background: aqua;">8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Steven Pifer, a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution, is a retired foreign service officer who worked on Russia and arms control, Boston Globe, June 9, http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2008/06/09/traveling_the_road_to_nuclear_reduction/] </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Third, <span style="background: aqua;">returning to arms control</span> is … as well as to reduce the nuclear threat. </span>__</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Relations key to solve accidental nuclear war </span>__**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Cohen 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen, AMiles) </span></span></span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cohen: The real concern I have with… , or, I should add in the think tanks, can connect these dots.</span> </span></span>__</span>

====﻿2NC START Impac Calc==== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">This conflict outweighs on magnitude </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">**Bostrom 2**</span> <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[*Gannon Award winner, Prof at Oxford, Nick Bostrom, Professor of philosophy at Oxford University, 2002, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">A much greater … </span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">encounter in the 21st century.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">And, cooperation is a pre-requisite to their advantages—solves every impact </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[#_Toc264986024]] <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for Russia, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “RUSSIA’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf] </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Since the dissolution of … are on a positive track. </span>__</span>

===Tax Cuts-Glenbrooks=== 

Compromise on Tax Cuts in the Lame Duck
Jeffry <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bartash. 11/16</span></span>/10. “Geithner Expects Tax Cut Extension Soon” Market Watch http://www.marketwatch.com/story/geithner-sees-deal-on-tax-cuts-soon-2010-11-16?reflink=MW_news_stmp
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) — </span><span class="underline"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">U.S. Treasury Secretary</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span><span class="underline"> competitive America</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” he added.</span>


Obama needs PC to work with republicans on compromise
Noam <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Levey. 11/8</span></span>/10. “Republicans Oppose Compromise With Obama On Tax Cuts” The Los Angeles Times http://articles.latimes.com/2010/nov/08/nation/la-na-republicans-tax-cuts-20101108

<span class="underline"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">Obama has proposed …of bitter partisanship</span>.</span>

These tax increases would cripple the US and global economies
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lambro, ’09</span></span> – Chief political correspondent for The Washington Times (Donald, “Critical review missing”, 1/29, Lexis)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If you've been… a nationally syndicated columnist. </span>

That causes nuclear war
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead, 09</span></span> - senior fellow for [[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._foreign_policy|U.S. foreign policy ]]at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, 2/4/09, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger,” [[@http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]] AD 6/30/09)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Frequently, the crisis …</span><span class="underline"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;"> still have to fight</span></span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**SKFTA-Golden Desert**</span>=== 


**South Korea free trade will pass – bipartisan support**
**Shaun <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Tandon</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">,</span> AFP, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">1-31</span>-11, “Fight to Finish on US-S.Korea trade pact” http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5hzIY9zNmDLq2K18FRPK5XmsXXucQ?docId=CNG.764e37f8c399559677198259f1c4d8aa.51
WASHINGTON — __With US President ….__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">, one by one," Wenk said. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">PC key to SKFTA – solves the economy and relations. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">GALLI 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [Teresa, Global Market Research Analyst @ Global Marketing Associates, “The South Korea - US Free Trade Agreement” June 21 -- http://ezinearticles.com/?The-South-Korea---US-Free-Trade-Agreement&id=4520289] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although riddled with …</span><span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, and much compromise</span>. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Relations solve multiple scenarios of nuclear war. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">PRITCHARD ET AL 9</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jack, President, Korea Economic Institute, John Tilelli, Chairman and CEO, Cypress Int’l, and Scott Snyder, Adjunct Senior Fellow for Korea Studies, “A New Chapter for U.S.-South Korea alliance” Council on Foreign Relations -- June 16 http://www.cfr.org/publication/19635/new_chapter_for_ussouth_korea_alliance.html] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While all eyes have …. the service of our shared interests. </span>


====**2NC Uniqueness-Golden Desert**==== 

**<span style="color: black;">a. Top of the agenda and massive republican support </span>**
<span style="color: black;">Shailaigh <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Murray, 2-3</span>-11, “Key Senator in Standoff over South Korean Trade Agreement” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/02/02/AR2011020206574.html </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Obama made clear in…that can help the economy</span>__."


**b. Bypart and UAW momentum**
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Wisconsin State Journal</span>, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2-1</span>-11, “Trade with China fuels GM” http://host.madison.com/wsj/news/opinion/editorial/article_aa32ed26-2d96-11e0-a6b8-001cc4c002e0.html
No wonder, then, __…__ Panama and Colombia.

**c.<span style="color: black;"> vote count and overwhelming congressional support </span>**
**<span style="background: yellow; color: black;">Associated Press</span>**<span style="color: black;">, **<span style="background: yellow;">1-25</span>**-11, “GOP Calls for Quick Action on Trade Pacts” <span style="color: #1c51a8;">[[@http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqQM5jdeg4iN7BPIoH8rvhp8OZ-SwGUCg?docId=712083e78a2e4842a0d7511fdc26f94e]]</span> </span>
<span style="color: black;">WASHINGTON (AP) — __<span style="background: yellow;">Rep</span>. Dave <span style="background: yellow;">Camp, the … action on trade deals</span>__. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">*d. our ev assumes opposition, it’ll still pass</span>**
<span style="color: black;">Bruce <span style="background: yellow;">Ramsey</span>, Editor of Seattle Times, <span style="background: yellow;">1-24</span>-11 “Outdated Gripes Won’t Block Pact” <span style="color: #1c51a8;">[[@http://seattletimes.newsource.com/html/opinion/2013969903_bruce19.html?prmid=op_ed]]</span> </span>
__<span style="background: yellow; color: black;">The trade agreement with …</span><span style="color: black;">issue they will be right.</span>__

**<span style="color: black;"> e. </span>****Grassley is on board – he’s key**
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Farm Futures 2-4</span>-11, “Senate Pressing For FTA Action” http://mobile.farmfutures.com/main.aspx?ascxid=cmsNewsStory&rmid=0&rascxid=&args=&rargs=17&dt=634324072640476000&lid=a8yebu2d9qxnz7lo&adms=634324072638760000Xf22f594e91&cmsSid=46273&cmsScid=17
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Senator</span> Chuck <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Grassley</span>…__be $1.6 billion for agriculture.


====**New 1NC Uniqueness Card-Harvard**==== 


<span class="Underline">**M****<span style="text-decoration: none;">assive momentum and bipartisan </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">Hyang **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Doo-Yong, 2-16</span>**-11, “Obama Wants FTA with Korea, Panama, Columbia Ratified this Year” http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2011/02/17/52/0301000000AEN20110217000400315F.HTML </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The Obama administration </span>… than $20 billion. </span>



====2NC Uniqueness-Harvard==== 

**Job creation push, Republican support and Democrats concessions**
Karen **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Zissis</span>**, **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">2-17</span>**-11, “Washington Steps Up Talk on Passing Trade Pacts” http://www.as-coa.org/articles/3030/Washington_Steps_up_Talk_on_Passing_Trade_Pacts/
<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">Could trade deals …Panama, [[@http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/02/16/us-usa-trade-geithner-idUSTRE71F4X020110216|reports]] Reuters. </span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Top priority and bipartisan support – most qualified source, quotes Obama </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">Andrew **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Malcom</span>**, **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">2-7</span>**-11, Quoting Obama’s Speech, “Top of the Ticket” http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/washington/2011/02/obama-chamber-of-commerce-speech.html </span>
<span class="Underline">We recently signed … to our exports. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Our ev assumes opposition, it’ll still pass</span>**
<span style="color: black;">Bruce <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Ramsey</span>, Editor of Seattle Times<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, 1-24</span>-11 “Outdated Gripes Won’t Block Pact” <span style="color: #1c51a8;">[[@http://seattletimes.newsource.com/html/opinion/2013969903_bruce19.html?prmid=op_ed]]</span> </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">The trade agreement ...</span><span style="color: black;">will be right.</span>__



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Clean Energy (Reverse Politics)-Golden Desert**</span>=== 

**Clean energy bill will pass**
Tom <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Dogget,</span> Reuters, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2-1</span>-11, “White House Clean Energy Gets Key Support” http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/02/01/idUS163126540220110201
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The White House</span> …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> United States</span>," Chu adde__d.


**Political capital key**
Scott <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Fitzgerald</span>, political adviser, “President Obama and the 112th Congress” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">1-26</span>-11, http://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=b1e7d86f-be89-449b-909b-ee35819bd91b
<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">In 2008, then-candidate … sources by 2035.</span>

**Energy bill collapses the economy**
Mark <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Ramsey</span>, expert on economic policies, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">1-26</span>-11, “State of the Union: Energy Policy” http://texasgopvote.com/2011-state-union-address/state-union-clean-energy-comes-cost-002409
<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">While we commend the …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> our economic challenges</span>__.


That causes nuclear war
<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Mead, 09</span></span> - senior fellow for [[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._foreign_policy|U.S. foreign policy ]]at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, 2/4/09, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger,” [[@http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]] AD 6/30/09)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Frequently, the crisis …</span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal;"> still have to fight</span></span>



==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Impact Turns** </span>== 


===Asian Prolif Good=== 

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. Asian proliferation key to peace </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Alagappa, 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Distinguished Senior Fellow at the East-West Center, PhD in International Affairs from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University (Muthiah, “Nuclear Weapons Reinforce Security and Stability in 21st Century Asia”, Journal of the East Asia Foundation, Spring 2009, <span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">[[http://globalasia.org/articles/issue9/iss9_17.html]]</span>, KONTOPOULOS) </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Continuing emphasis on ….</span> __security and stability in Asia.__

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. Small arsenals solve </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cha, 01</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Government at Georgetown, Former Director for Asian Affairs in the White House's National Security Council, with responsibility for Japan, North and South Korea, Australia, and New Zealand, Bush’s Top Advisor on North Korean Affairs (Victor, “The Second Nuclear Age: Proliferation Pessimism Versus Sober Optimism in South Asia and East Asia”, Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 24, No. 4, Galileo, KONTOPOULOS) PDF </span>

__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">These arguments also ….<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> and de-stabilizing outcomes</span>. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">3. History proves – prolif is slow and solves conflict through mutual deterrence </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bennett, 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> – Staff Writer for the Boston Globe (Drake, "Give nukes a chance", Boston Globe, March 20th 2005, July 14th 2010, http://www.boston.com/news/globe/ideas/articles/2005/03/20/give_nukes_a_chance?pg=full, KONTOPOULOS)</span>

__''The term <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">proliferation</span>' is a … to be welcomed than feared.__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">4. Even if wars still happen, prolif solves __escalation__</span>** **<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">– history proves </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sechser, 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> – Assistant Professor at the Woodrow Wilson Department of Politics at the University of Virginia (Todd S., "Nuclear Weapons", University of Virginia, December 30th 2008, July 14th 2010, p. 4-5, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">What about conflicts …eventually the challenger backed down.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">5. Prolif makes miscalc __less likely__ and rational self-interest solves preemption </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Woods, 02</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Ph.D. from the University of Nottingham</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> (Matthew, "Reflections on nuclear optimism: Waltz, Burke and proliferation", Review of International Studies, 2002, July 14th 2010, Vol. 28, Issue 1, p. 5-6, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Optimism appears in four …</span>__proliferation of nuclear weapons__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">6. History disproves all their warrants for war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sechser, 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> – Assistant Professor at the Woodrow Wilson Department of Politics at the University of Virginia (Todd S., "Nuclear Weapons", University of Virginia, December 30th 2008, July 14th 2010, p. 1, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>

__The idea that …. greater international stability__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">7. Finally, prefer our ev – proliferation pessimists give in to nuclear phobia and fail to make rational, calculated assessments </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Tepperman, 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> -- Former Deputy Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, Assistant Managing Editor at Newsweek (Jonathon, "Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb", Newsweek, August 29th 2009, July 14th 2010, http://www.newsweek.com/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.html, KONTOPOULOS) </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Put this all together and ….</span> __to make to the public__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


=== === 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**China War Good** </span>=== 

**1. it is inevitable- war now prevents a surprise attack that collapses the economy**
**Nyquist, 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Geopolitical and economic theorist (Jeffrey R., “China’s Military Strategy,” 3/9/7, [[http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2007/0309.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In October 1991, China’s …</span>__We blink and avert our gaze.__

**2. we will win now multiple reasons**

**a. Counterforce attack**
**Lieber and Press, 09** (Keir A., Associate Professor @ Georgetown University, Daryl G., Associate Professor of Government, Dartmouth College, Foreign Affairs, Nov/Dec)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">MODELING THE UNTHINKABLE ….</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> U.S. president real options.</span>__**

<span class="3TagCite">b. first strike </span>
<span class="3TagCite">Lieber and Presse, 06<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> – </span></span><span class="4Qualifications"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Keir A. Leiber, author of War and the Engineers: The Primacy of Politics over Technology, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame. Daryl G. Press, author of Calculating Credibility: How Leaders Assess Military Threats, Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania ("The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy, Foreign Affairs, March/April 2006) </span></span>

<span class="6Underlined"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10.5pt;">China's nuclear arsenal is</span></span><span class="5Notunderlined"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ….__it__ </span></span><span class="6Underlined"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">for a decade</span></span><span class="5Notunderlined">__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or more.</span>__</span>

**c. better tech**
**Godwin, 00**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Prof Intl Affairs National War College, visiting Prof at Chinese National Defense University (Paul, Washington Journal of Modern China, “China's Defense Modernization: Aspirations and Capabilities” [[http://www.ndu.edu/inss/symposia/pacific2000/godwinpaper.htm]]) </span>

__Although definitely a …would seem to be assured.__


**3. Turn – Chinese Modernization**
**A. War now prevents Chinese modernization – view their evidence with skepticism**
**Nyquist, 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Geopolitical and economic theorist (Jeffrey R., “Recent China Revelations,” 3/9/7, </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[[http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2005/0701.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On June 9 the Washington ….</span>__U.S. technology in Chinese hands.__

**B. Chinese modernization prevents US and Russian nuclear cuts**
**Reuters, 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[China seen staking "middle" role at nuclear talks”, april. http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE63P0GB20100426]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">China is unlikely to … **disarmament discussions**,</span>"__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">said Gill. </span>

**C. Those prevent Russian loose nukes from falling into the hands of terrorists**
**NSN, 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[National Security Network, “Start with START”, http://www.nsnetwork.org/node/1348]</span>

__A START follow-on ….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Atomic Scientist, </span>[[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/will-the-senate-support-new-nuclear-arms-reductions|__6/23/09__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.] </span>

**D. Loose nukes culminate in global nuclear war**
**Speice, 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Patrick F., Jr., J.D. Candidate 2006, Marshall-Wythe School of Law, College of William and Mary; B.A. 2003, Wake Forest University, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February, 2006, ln)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The potential </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">consequences of</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="Underline">the use of nuclear weapons</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=95c7dc0db14c883f515a3b19f5192a95&csvc=bl&cform=bool&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlb-zSkAz&_md5=98122b02f455685255055df486fa389d#n53|53]] </span>

==Case Negs== 
===COIN=== 
====1NC Winning the War==== 


We're winning the war now
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Boot 10</span></span>—Senior Fellow, CFR. (Max, Afghanistan: The Case for Optimism, 2 September 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/22878/afghanistan.html]]</span>)

<span class="underline0">The assumption that …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">a local government while working to reform it.</span>

The Afghan army is getting better
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon 10</span></span><span style="background-color: aqua;"> -</span> Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings(Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, “A Bright Spot Among Afghan Woes,” Brookings, May 19th,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0519_afghan_army_ohanlon.aspx]]</span>]])

<span class="underline0">A good way to … <span style="background-color: aqua;">strategy</span>, so this good news should not be underrated</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

The squo solves legitimacy and corruption
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 9</span></span> [Frederick, In Afghanistan, Real leverage Starts with More Troops, Washington Post, American Institute for Public Policy Research, November 27th, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/101363]]</span>

<span class="underline0">The president will soon announce the…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Used systematically, as happened in Iraq, this leverage can dramatically alter the behavior of networks of people misusing their power.</span>


Coin wins Marjah
Brett <span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Van Ess</span></span>, MA in diplomacy and military studies at Hawaii Pacific University, September 30th 20<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>, Small Wars Journal,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/journal/docs-temp/563-vaness.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua;">Marjah is no longer the hub of </span>… terrain in southern Afghanistan.

Key to taliban
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stratfor</span></span>, Kamran Bokhari, Peter Zeihan and Nathan Hughes, fellow at the Center for the study of Islam and Democracy and the secretary and Interim Treasurer of the AMSS, Vice President of Strategic Analysis at Strator, and Director of Military Analysis at Stratfor, “The Meaning of Marjah, Feb 20<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100216_meaning_marjah]]</span> </span>
Why Marjah? The key is the geography of Afghanistan and the nature of the conflict itself. <span style="background-color: aqua;">Most of Afghanistan is custom-made </span>… <span style="background-color: aqua;">regardless of the Taliban’s strategic or tactical goals, Marjah is a critical node in their operations.</span>

The US will win - multiple reasons
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon 9</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">- Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings</span></span> (Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, “In Afghanistan, The Odds Are With Us,” Brookings, December 14th,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/1214_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We face huge challenges in Afghanistan, to …</span> __at a reasonable level, the odds are with us in this important mission.__

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Case Negs-COIN-2nc winning war cards]]2nc winning war cards**</span>==== 
All their evidence is based on pre-surge statistics—don’t evaluate it
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Nagl, 10</span></span> – President of the Center for a New American Security, and Visiting Professor in the Department of War Studies at King’s College (John, “The proposer's opening remarks,” The Economist online debate, 5/17, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.economist.com/debate/days/view/516]]</span>)

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: aqua;">We waited until</span> … achieve a reasonable degree of stability</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

We're winning in key regions
a) Sangin
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Grant 10</span></span>—Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director at The Henry Jackson Society. MA with honors in history, U Edinborough (George, Succeeding in Afghanistan, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf]]</span>)
Note – Sangin = in the Pashtun region, population = 92% Pashtun

<span class="underline0">Though the new strategy is …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as opposed to merely temporary - progress.</span>

b) Kandahar
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Gearan 10</span></span>—AP nat. sec. writer (Anne, Gates sees progress in tour of Afghan war zone, 3 September 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.wtop.com/?nid=385&sid=2042954]]</span>, AMiles)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. Defense Secretary Robert … be less dominated by local powerbrokers. </span>

Army is improving, quality and quantity- if this happens we will win the war
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Grant 10</span></span>—Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director at The Henry Jackson Society. MA with honors in history, U Edinborough (George, Succeeding in Afghanistan, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf]]</span>)

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: aqua;">The final component without which </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is therefore vitally important that this commitment to enhancing domestic capacity continues.</span>

Quality is increasing- that’s key
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Michaels 8/11</span></span> (Jim, Afghan troops reach 240,000 goal early, 11 August 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/afghanistan/2010-08-11-1Abenchmark11_ST_N.htm]]</span>)

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: aqua;">NATO has reached its goal of </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> under a strategy called "the surge."</span>

Recruitment and quality increasing
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Fair</span></span><span style="background-color: aqua;">,</span> assistant professor in the Center for Peace and Security Studies (CPASS), within Georgetown University’s Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service. Prior to joining Georgetown, she served as a senior political scientist with the RAND Corporation where she has done two tours of duty (1997- 2004; 2007-2009), July <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">20<span style="background-color: aqua;">10</span></span></span> (C. Christine, “Obama’s New “Af-Pak” Strategy: Can “Clear, Hold, Build, Transfer” Work?” The Afghanistan Papers no. 6 The Centre for International Governance Innovation<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cigionline.org/sites/default/files/Afghanistan_Paper_6.pdf]]</span>)

There have been successes… 831 in September (Flaherty, 2009).

Training, police and soldiers solve corruption
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Graham 5/18</span></span> [Ian, Emerging Media @ DoD, “Pay Raises, Training Combat Afghan Corruption,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.defense.gov/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=59235]]</span>]

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: aqua;">Corruption</span> has <span style="background-color: aqua;">constituted a </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and my country. I'm staying here.’”</span>


Even if the government is corrupt, polls show public doesn’t think that
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon and Sherjan 10</span></span> - Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings AND President of Aid Afghanistan for Education (Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, Hassina, President of Aid Afghanistan for Education, “The Tide May Be Turning In Afghanistan,” Brookings, February 16th,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0216_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One of us (Sherjan) helped start girls education …</span><span class="underline0"> psychological trend is critical</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Minerals solve corruption
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon 10 </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">- Director of Research and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy @ Brookings</span></span> (Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy @ Brookings, "Deposits Could Aid Ailing Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 16th,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0616_afghanistan_minerals_ohanlon.aspx]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, the mineral deposits: </span>__The Defense … is indeed reason for hope in Afghanistan.__

Corruption decreasing now
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khaleghi</span></span>, March <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010 </span></span>(Kristina “Accountability: Battling Government Corruption” US Next Steps in Afghanistan” University of Washington Henry M. Jackson school of International Studies Task Force<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[https://digital.lib.washington.edu/dspace/bitstream/handle/1773/15596/TF_SIS495B_2010.pdf?sequence=1]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although corruption continues to be a critical …corruption in the Afghan Penal Code.41 </span>

Squo solves border crossing
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan, 9</span></span> -- former prof of military history @ West Point (Fredrick W., “A Stable Pakistan Needs a Stable Afghanistan”, 9/5/2009,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/100986]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Winning the war in Afghanistan--creating a stable and legitimate …the painful progress made by Pakistan's military irrelevant. </span>

We are not Russia, empirics go neg
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Fair</span></span>, assistant professor in the Center for Peace and Security Studies (CPASS), within Georgetown University’s Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service. Prior to joining Georgetown, she served as a senior political scientist with the RAND Corporation where she has done two tours of duty (1997- 2004; 2007-2009), July <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">20<span style="background-color: aqua;">10</span></span></span> (C. Christine, “Obama’s New “Af-Pak” Strategy: Can “Clear, Hold, Build, Transfer” Work?” The Afghanistan Papers no. 6 The Centre for International Governance Innovation<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cigionline.org/sites/default/files/Afghanistan_Paper_6.pdf]]</span>)

Critical questions remain, of course, about the ultimate … the Taliban (if polls are a trustworthy measure).11

And Marjah is the Taliban homeland – maintaining it would be a major psychological and monetary blow
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Major General Mills</span></span>, “Marines Stabilize Afghan Town Of Marjah”, April 27th 20<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>
Major Gen. MILLS: There is still a presence in the area. ... that everything has not worked.

===Futenma=== 

====1NC Japan Politics==== 
**Climate legislation is top of the agenda but won’t pass the Diet – Kan can’t effectively court opposition parties**
<span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters – 10-8 </span>**</span>
UPDATE 1-Japan revives push for climate bill,outlook unclear, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://af.reuters.com/article/commoditiesNews/idAFTOE69706W20101008]]</span>

<span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan's government agreed</span></span> on Friday <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">to … ran out of time</span></span> for debate.


**Recent appeasement policies have tanked Kan’s popularity – the plan boosts his public approval rating**
<span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CSM – 10-5</span>**</span>
China-Japan spat drives plunge in support for Japan's Kan, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-Pacific/2010/1005/China-Japan-spat-drives-plunge-in-support-for-Japan-s-Kan]]</span>

But the show of postprandial statesmanship falls well short of a resolution …<span class="CardsHighlight">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> forget in a hurry.”</span>** </span>



**That allows Kan to strong arm the opposition into supporting his agenda**
<span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris 10 </span>**</span>
Tobias, Kan starts anew, 9/23, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://asiasecurity.macfound.org/blog/entry/111kan_starts_anew/]]</span>

But while Ozawa may be less of a problem, …<span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">minister since Koizumi</span></span>.



**Japanese cap and trade collapses its economy**
<span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters – 10-8 </span>**</span>
UPDATE 1-Japan revives push for climate bill,outlook unclear, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://af.reuters.com/article/commoditiesNews/idAFTOE69706W20101008]]</span>

But <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">officials from its top eight industries …of certain manufacturers. </span></span>

**That causes global economic collapse and Asian war – turns the case**
**Auslin – Scholar, AEI – ‘9**
Michael, Japan's Downturn Is Bad News for the World, February <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123483257056995903.html]]</span>
Recently, many <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">economists</span></span> …<span class="CardsHighlight">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the world's most heavily armed region</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span></span>


**Economic collapses causes global nuclear war**
**Mead 09**
[Walter Russel Mead - the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations and the author of God and Gold: Britain, America and the Making of the Modern World. - 2/4/09 - <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.ht...e83915f5f8&p=2]]</span>]

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">So far, such half-hearted experiments not only have failed to work; … </span>**track, we <span style="background-color: aqua;">may still have to fight.</span>**

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> 1NC Counterplan </span>=== 


**CP Text –**
**The United States federal government should merge the functions currently performed by Marine Units at Marine Corps Air Station Futenma into facilities of Japan’s Self Defense Forces in Japan**
**<<<other than the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit as well as a comparable number of Marines to maintain pre-positioned equipment and maintain access arrangement for the emergency use of Japanese facilities >>>.**

**The United States federal government should not withdraw from the Kadena air base or** **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Yokosuka Naval Base. The United States federal government should advocate this position in any negotiations with the Japanese government. </span>**

**The United States federal government should reduce the number and intensity of training exercises conducted out of Futenma and publicly promote joint security strategies conducted with the Japanese government based out of Japanese Self-Defense Forces air bases.**

**It competes – avoids disads to withdrawal**

**The CP solves the case – smoothes over any backlash to presence**
<span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Ennis – 1AC Author and General Aff Hack – 10/8</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">/10 </span>**</span>
Peter, Campbell downplays Futenma. Is a solution in sight?, http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/futenma/

Ironically, <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">there is </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> just six months ago.</span>**</span>



=====2NC Cards===== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">**Reductions not necessary**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;"> **Ennis 10**, former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist, 6-8-10 (Peter, “Jeff Bader, Mike Green hit critics of Obama Futenma policy,” Dispatch Japan,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: blue; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/06/jeff-bader-mike-green-hit-critics-of-obama-futenma-policy.html]]</span>) <span style="background-color: aqua;">It’s not too late for the </span>… down the road for renewed tensions between Washington and Tokyo.</span>


<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">**The reduction of exercises and base merging prevents backlash**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;"><span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Kusumoto et al –’10</span>** </span> Hana, Futenma fight could linger despite Japan's new prime minister, June, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.stripes.com/news/pacific/okinawa/futenma-fight-could-linger-despite-japan-s-new-prime-minister-1.107689]]</span> But <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">there are longer-term plans …</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the U.S. presence</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.”</span></span> **CP locks in a bilateral understanding on long-term presence at Kadena and Yokosuka – prevents backlash from spilling over to other basing arrangements** <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Ennis, ‘10</span>**</span> former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist, 6-8-<span class="CardsChar">10 </span>(Peter, “Jeff Bader, Mike Green hit critics of Obama Futenma policy,” Dispatch Japan,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/06/jeff-bader-mike-green-hit-critics-of-obama-futenma-policy.html]]</span>) </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">Rather than spending political capital on promoting the wildly unpopular …<span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Kadena and Yokosuka </span></span>respectively.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">**The CP keeps active Marine components on Okinawa that the plan removes – preserves existential deterrence and limits backlash to basing** </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;"><span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Chaffin –10/5</span>** </span> Greg, Okinawa and the Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/okinawa_and_the_changing_us-japan_alliance]]</span> </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;"><span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">By relocating Marine Air Group 36 …</span></span>in order to answer their concerns.</span>




















====1NC Deterrence==== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">**The PRC is revisionist and will make a move for Taiwan or the Senkaku – active components of the Marine Group at Futenma/Henoko are a key existential deterrent to Chinese aggression – the plan collapses regional stability*** <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Chaffin –10/5</span>** </span> Greg, Okinawa and the Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/okinawa_and_the_changing_us-japan_alliance]]</span> <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">According to the 2006</span></span> force <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">realignment agreement</span></span> …Islands, near Okinawa. **(****) Active component on Okinawa key to avoid disruption of SE Asian SLOCs** <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Chaffin</span>****<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;"> 10/5 </span>**</span> Greg, Okinawa and the Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/okinawa_and_the_changing_us-japan_alliance]]</span> <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U</span></span>nited <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span></span>tates <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">and Japan</span></span> also <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> involving the sea lines of communication</span>**</span>**.** **() Maritime terrorism in Malacca is highly likely – will use established piracy networks to target LNG tankers** **<span style="background-color: aqua;">Raj</span> – JIIA Visiting Research Fellow, Stratad Asia Pacific Strategic Centre <span style="background-color: aqua;">– ‘9</span>** Andrin, JAPAN’S INITIATIVES IN SECURITY COOPERATION IN THE STRAITS OF MALACCA ON MARITIME SECURITY AND IN SOUTHEAST ASIA: PIRACY AND MARITIME TERRORISM, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www2.jiia.or.jp/pdf/fellow_report/090331-Andrin_Raj.pdf]]</span> In addition to the high number of pirate attacks in the … using crude oil containers.</span>









====1N Case==== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">**The presence of the base is enough to trigger domestic backlash**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;"> <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chaffin 10/5 </span>**</span> Greg, Okinawa and the Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/okinawa_and_the_changing_us-japan_alliance]]</span> <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The</span></span> proposed <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">relocation of </span></span>Marine Corps Air …<span class="CardsHighlight">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">territorial sovereignty</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> that </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the base </span>****//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">represents</span>//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span> **Backlash to Futenma/Henoko won’t spillover to other basing arrangements** <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogin – Foreign Policy, Staff – ‘10 </span>**</span> Josh, Will Obama hit the ‘reset’ button on U.S.-Japan relations?, June <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/category/topic/japan]]</span> And <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kan has every reason not to …</span></span>argues the New America Foundation's Steve Clemons. **The plan emboldens anti-US forces – turns their basing scenarios and creates a comparatively larger threat to the alliance*** <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Auslin – Director of Japan Studies @ AEI – 9/15 </span>**</span> Michael, Tokyo's Relationship Anxiety, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703376504575492492252402682.html]]</span> One of his biggest immediate challenges will be the 2006 …Americans to resolve the impasse. </span>
















=====2NC Case===== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">**Basing issue won’t spillover – opposition will stay local**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;"> <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kusumoto et al –’10 </span>**</span> Hana, Futenma fight could linger despite Japan's new prime minister, June, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.stripes.com/news/pacific/okinawa/futenma-fight-could-linger-despite-japan-s-new-prime-minister-1.107689]]</span> Still, <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">even staunch protesters </span></span>…<span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the National Defense Academy</span></span> in Japan. **Empirics prove – attempts to scale down presence embolden anti-base activists [also proves their more concerned with the physical presence of the bases than the troops themselves]** <span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kusumoto et al –’10 </span>**</span> Hana, Futenma fight could linger despite Japan's new prime minister, June, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.stripes.com/news/pacific/okinawa/futenma-fight-could-linger-despite-japan-s-new-prime-minister-1.107689]]</span> Japanese and U.S. leaders also are looking to see whether …“You cannot change back the clock.” **Removal spills over** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cliff 2001, “The future of U.S. overseas presence” QDR 4/1: strategy driven choices for America’s security<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA430963&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span> </span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">A similar argument applies to U.S. military presence in … Reductions should occur only in the context of a restructuring of the U.S.-Japan security relationship aimed at ensuring the long-term viability of the alliance.</span></span>


















===**BMD**=== 



====<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">1NC Case</span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;">Empirically denied – last 30 years</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal;"> Masako </span>**<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Toki</span>**<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">,</span> Project manager in the Nonproliferation Education Program at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies,** 2009**. Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, “Missile Defense in Japan,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/missile-defense-japan]]</span> __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">U.S.-Japanese cooperation … joined Washington in cooperative </span>research and <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">development of a </span>__**
__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat; font-size: 15pt;">b</span>__**__allistic__** __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat; font-size: 15pt;">m</span>__**__issile__** __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat; font-size: 15pt;">d</span>__**__efense<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;"> system</span>__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">.</span> Alt cause – global missile defense systems**

<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Global Security Newswire</span> 20<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">10</span>**. “U.S. Wants to Surround China With Missile Defenses, Chinese Experts Claim,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100223_8151.php]]</span> __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Chinese</span>__ defense analysts … nations such as Japan and __South Korea__ (see GSN, Feb. 18). Cooperative BMD solves war and the US economy – cuts ensure unilateral deployment which is worse Lt. Col. Mark**



Hughes**, National Defense University,** 1997**. “Why the US Must Pursue a Cooperative Japanese - US Theater Missile Defense Program,” www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc**
**__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">A Japanese - U</span>__nited __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">S</span>__tates __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">…</span>__**__removes all incentive__ **<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;"> for</span> an opponent to resort __to__ preemptive or preventative __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">war,” by negating the effectiveness of</span> its offensive <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">weapons</span>__ 22 Cooperative BMD deters conflict – the U.S. will redeploy elsewhere without the plan Michael D.**



<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Swaine</span>**, senior associate in the Asia program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace where he specializes in Chinese security and foreign policy, U.S.–China relations, and East Asian international relations, Ph.D. from Harvard, former analyst at RAND and researcher at Harvard,** 200<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">1</span>**. “Japan and Ballistic Missile Defense,” www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR1374/index.htm**
**__Critics of Japanese …__ the naval-based TMD systems.**


Cross-Strait Relations are murky now – and Obama will keep it that way
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ron </span>__Huisken, 2009__, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">SDSC, ANU, April 2009, (International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, North East Asia: A Nuclear Gordian Knot?)</span> <span style="margin-left: 0.2in;">__Whatever conclusions, if any__, __the <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">… </span>__</span>**
__never arises__ **.**
Cross-Strait Relations are zero-sum, tilting towards Beijing worsens tensions
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Andrew J. </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat; font-size: 14pt;">Nathan, 2k</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">is professor of political science at Columbia University, co-author with Robert S. Ross of The Great Wall and the Empty Fortress (1997), and author of China's Transition (1997), 2000, (The Washington Quarterly 23.2 (2000) 93-106, What's Wrong with American Taiwan Policy)</span> <span style="margin-left: 0.2in;">__The question__, then, __is how to …<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;"> pressure to bear on Taiwan, and on the other side it has </span>__</span>**

__driven Taiwan to take new destabilizing actions__ **.**
Tilting in either direction causes war
__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat; font-size: 14pt;">Benson and Niou 2k</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Brett V. Benson, Duke University and Emerson M. S. Niou, Duke University, April, 2000, (Comprehending Strategic Ambiguity: US Policy Toward Taiwan Security)</span> <span style="margin-left: 0.2in;">__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">The US plays a crucial </span>…__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the first democratic ruling body in the history of China. To abandon Taiwan for US interests on the mainland would damage US international credibility and interrupt US economic interests on Taiwan</span>.</span>**



**<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; margin-left: 0.2in;">Missile defense solves US – China war and crisis stability</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; margin-left: 0.2in;"> <span style="font-weight: normal;">Taylor </span>Dinerman<span style="font-weight: normal;">, Author and Journalist Based in NYC, </span>2006<span style="font-weight: normal;">. The Space Review, “Is the Japanese-US missile defense program changing the As</span></span>**<span style="font-size: small;">**<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; margin-left: 0.2in;">ian military balance?” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/594/1]]</span></span>**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; margin-left: 0.2in;">__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">China’s ability to strike the US</span> …__ and __concentrate on the problems and dangers that exist to the west of the great subcontinent.__</span>**


Taiwan has bmd
<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Reuters 9/8</span>**<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">.</span> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6871L120100908]]</span> __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Taiwan will deploy a new missile defense system</span>__ …__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;"> overt sign of Taiwan's military muscle, especially when backed by U.S. weapons systems</span>__.**

Taiwan outweighs – crossed a new threshold that Japanese BMD didn’t
**Rick** <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Rozoff</span>**, Stop NATO,** 20<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">10</span>**. “U.S. Tightens Missile Shield Encirclement Of China And Russia,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://rickrozoff.wordpress.com/2010/03/04/u-s-tightens-missile-shield-encirclement-of-china-and-russia/]]</span> On January 29 __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">the White House confirmed the completion of a</span>__ … against putative “rogue states” but __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">against</span>__ two major nuclear powers, __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">China</span>__and Russia. -Australia Gregg**


<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Rubinstein</span>**<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">,</span> Former Official of the U.S. Departments of State and Defense and Consultant on U.S.-Japan Defense Programs,** 200<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">7</span>**. “<span style="color: black;">US-Japan Missile Defense Cooperation: Current Status, Future Prospe</span>cts,”<span style="color: black;">www.japanconsidered.com/.../Rubinstein%20USJA%20BMD%20article%20090507.pdfcts,” </span> __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Reacting mostly to</span>__ the development of … under study, but is expected to be announced in the near future.26 Fiat can’t solve – plan only stops missile defense – Japan will procure the same weapons for different missions Michael D.**





Swaine**, senior associate in the Asia program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace where he specializes in Chinese security and foreign policy, U.S.–China relations, and East Asian international relations, Ph.D. from Harvard, former analyst at RAND and researcher at Harvard,** 2001**. “Japan and Ballistic Missile Defense,” www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR1374/index.htm**
**At the same time, __it is__ also __possible that__ … __utilize__ off-line or __special allocations__. Turns case – Japanese BMD inevitable – cooperation allows spin control that solves miscalculation Lt. Col. Mark**

Hughes**, National Defense University,** 1997**. “Why the US Must Pursue a Cooperative Japanese - US Theater Missile Defense Program,” www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc**
**__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Opponents</span>__ to the combined development of … __<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">our</span> regional allies and <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">competitors</span>__ Cooperative BMD prevents Japanese militarization – shifts focus to peaceful rocket development <span style="font-weight: normal;">Arthur </span>Ding<span style="font-weight: normal;"> is a Research Fellow at the Institute of International Relations of National Chengchi University in Taipei. Dr. Ding received a doctoral degree in Government and International Studies from the University of Notre Dame in 1987, </span>1999<span style="font-weight: normal;">. Nonproliferation Review, Fall, p. 93-101. </span> The same logic can be applied to Japan. …__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">military modernization</span>.__**



=====2NC Case Cards===== 


This turns Asian stability and US China war
**Lt. Col. Mark** <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Hughes</span>**, National Defense University,** 19<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">97</span>**. “Why the US Must Pursue a Cooperative Japanese - US Theater Missile Defense Program,” www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc**
**<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; margin-left: 0.2in;">__Our strong security …__opportunity pass Turns Taiwan <span style="margin-left: 0in;">Richard </span></span>**

Fisher**, Senior Fellow on Asian Military Affairs at the International Assessment and Strategy Center,** 2008**. “China’s Military Modernization,” p. 244**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Since 2001 the Bush administration has … surveillance satellites attacked by the PLA. </span>**

===<span style="line-height: 19px;">Drones </span>=== 

====<span style="line-height: 19px;">1NC Case</span>==== 
**We’ll read a card on this -** **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Drones make war-fighting more humane </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Wall Street Journal, 9</span>** [The Wall Street Journal, " Predators and Civilians " * JULY 14, 2009, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB124743959026229517.html]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In both cases, …</span>b<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ut also Americans. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">a. Drones are used by over 44 countries </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Shane, 9</span>** <span style="color: black;">[SCOTT SHANE, " C.I.A. to Expand Use of Drones in Pakistan " December 3, 2009, NYTimes,</span>
<span style="color: black;">http://www.nytimes.com/2009/12/04/world/asia/04drones.html] </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Yet with few o…</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">away</span>__****__,”__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> he said. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">b. They’ll just shift the tech to other planes </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Drew, 9</span>** <span style="color: black;">[Christopher Drew, March 17, 2009 " Drones Are Weapons of Choice in Fighting Qaeda" March 17, 200, Common Dreams</span>, http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2009/03/17-4<span style="color: black;">]</span>
**__Given the demand …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">get more advanced."</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">4. Evolution proves violence is inevitable and explains realism</span>**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Thayer 4</span>__****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> – Thayer has been a Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and has taught at Dartmouth College and the University of Minnesota [Darwin and International Relations: On the Evolutionary Origins of War and Ethnic Conflict, University of Kentucky Press, 2004, pg. 75-76 //adi]//</span>**
//**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">The central issue … or other resources).</span>** <span class="Underline"> **5.** </span>**Squo sustainable** Daniel **__Griswold__**, Masters in economics, 20**__07__***—director of the Center for Trade Policy at CATO. He has testified before House and Senate committees and federal agencies on a range of trade and immigration issues. Former editorial page editor of the Colorado Springs Gazette and a congressional press secretary. BA in journalism, U Wisconsin. Diploma in economics and master’s in Politics of the World economy, London School of Economics. (Daniel, “Trade, Democracy and Peace: The Virtuous Cycle,” 20 April 2007, http://www.freetrade.org/node/681) <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The good news … three main ways</span>. **a. Plan cedes the political** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Lord</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">William </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Wallace, Baron</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">of Saltaire, </span><span style="color: black;">AND PhD</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> Cornell, Former IR Prof London School of Economics, Total Badass, Review of international Studies 19</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black;">96 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">(22) </span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">The </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">failure</span><span style="color: black;"> of</span>__**//









/**__<span style="color: black;"> undermine it<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span></span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">32 (308-9)</span>

**b. That makes their impacts inevitable**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Boggs 97</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of social sciences, Los Angeles (Carl, The Great Retreat, Theory and Society 26.6, jstor) </span>

__The <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">false </span>..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from civil society.75 </span>



=====<span style="line-height: 19px;">**2NC Case**</span>===== 
**The military has instituted training and safety procedures to prevent civilian casualties**
<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Filkins, 10</span></span> [DEXTER FILKINS, " Operators of Drones Are Faulted in Afghan Deaths " May 29, 2010, NY Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/30/world/asia/30drone.html]
<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">KABUL, Afghanistan — The …</span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal;">sharply restricted airstrikes</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span>

**It’s war, people die – drones minimize the harms of war**
<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Lakhani, 9</span></span> [Kalsoom Lakhani, " Drone Attacks: Bombs in The Air Versus Boots on The Ground" July 20, 2009, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/kalsoom-lakhani/drone-attacks-bombs-in-th_b_241439.html]
If the strategic …<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal;">on the ground.</span> </span>


**Drone strikes are very acccurate, civilian casualties are minimized**
<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">SHIFRIN, 8</span></span> [Shifrin, Nick, " U.S. Drone Strikes With Deadly Accuracy " ABC News, Nov. 19, 2008,
http://abcnews.go.com/International/story?id=6289748&page=1]
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Two missiles destroyed … told ABC News</span></span>.


**US uses drones in lots of countries**
<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Ofek, ’10</span></span> [Hillel Ofek, The Tortured Logic of Obama’s Drone War, The New Atlantis, Spring 2010, http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/the-tortured-logic-of-obamas-drone-war]
<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal;">The CIA’s drone </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">…still greater number</span></span>.

**Terrorists will use drones regardless of US bans**
<span class="cite"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Singer, ‘9</span></span> [P.W. Singer, Director of the 21st-Century Defense Initiative at Brookings, Wired for War: The Robotics Revolution and Conflict in the 21st Century, 2009, p. 221 ST]
The same <span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal;">observers</span></span>…armor, and steeds."

<span class="Underline">**<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">Predator strikes will just be launched from surrounding countries </span>**</span>
**<span style="color: black;">Byman, 9</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - Director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies at Georgetown University, a Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7.0pt;">…</span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;"> bases in Pakistan).</span> </span>

**Drone strikes are increasingly based in Pakistan**
**Zenko, 10 -** Fellow for Conflict Prevention, Council on Foreign Relations (Micah, “Raising the Curtain on U.S. Drone Strikes,” Interview with Greg Bruno, 6/2, [[http://www.cfr.org/publication/22290/raising_the_curtain_on_us_drone_strikes.html]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The decision was …</span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> the Pakistani government</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">They can’t solve—violence is hardwired into our brains</span>**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Eisner 9</span>__****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">—prof of Comparative & Developmental Criminology, Deputy Director of the Institute, Cambridge. Work revolves around macro-level historical patterns of violence and research on individual development and the causes and prevention of aggressive behavior. PhD in sociology, U Zurich (Manuel, The Uses of Violence: An Examination of Some Cross-Cutting Issues,[[http://www.ijcv.org/index.php/ijcv/article/viewArticle/47|**http://www.ijcv.org/index.php/ijcv/article/viewArticle/47**]], AMiles)</span>**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;">Research from all </span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;">…</span>__****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">sexual infidelity (jealousy).</span>**


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>





==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**K Affs**</span>== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**1NC Framework**</span>=== 

**Our framework**: the aff has to defend that the USFG implement a topical policy advocacy. All advantages should be causal results of the plan, not from in round discussion.


<span class="Underline">**A) Fairness—there are an infinite number of frameworks that the Aff can’t predict which rigs the game for the negative** </span>
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">MEARSHEIMER</span> 19<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">95</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John, Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, International Security, Winter 94/95) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nevertheless, critical theorists … will be more peaceful. </span>

<span class="Underline">**B) Policy implications are necessary to test theory—a legitimate alternative must describe the consequences of implementing specific change because rhetorical criticism can make the world worse—the impact is education and it turns the case** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">FEAVER</span> 200<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">1</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, Asst. Prof of Political Science at Duke University, Twenty-First Century Weapons Proliferation, p 178) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the same time, virtually </span>…<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> proliferation field already does so. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**C) War—Ignore their generic evidence—detailed military education prevents extinction** </span>
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">HANSON</span> 200<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">7</span>** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Victor Davis Hanson, Professor of Classics at CSU Fullerton, “Why Study War?” City Journal, Summer)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It’s no surprise that </span>__civilian <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Americans….obligation to stop them</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**D) We solve your K** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Kagan</span> 200<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">6</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Fred, Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, “Why Military History Matters,” June, http://www.aei.org/outlook/24600) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are many reasons …</span>in a time of danger and conflict<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>


===Realism=== 

====**1NC Realism**==== 
**Realism is true and inevitable – a shift awy collapses into chaos.**
**Mearsheimer**, **1** (professor of political science at University of Chicago, //The Tragedy of Great Power Politics//, pg. 361, 2001)

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The</span> optimists' <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">claim </span>… each region <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">at peace.</span>__

**Realism and the self-help theory are rooted in human nature – anarchic worlds from the dawn of time to today created an impeus for realist thought.**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer, 4</span></span> <span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">– Thayer has been a Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and has taught at Dartmouth College and the University of Minnesota (//Darwin and International Relations: On the Evolutionary Origins of War and Ethnic Conflict//, University of Kentucky Press, 2004, pg. 75-76 //adi)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">The central issue here is … shelter, or other resources).</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
====**2NC Realism Extension**==== 
**Prefer Thayer’s analysis – it’s the only one that’s falsifiable and proven through <span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">scientific fact</span></span> – theories that are not shouln’t even be <span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">considered</span></span>.**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 2004</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> – Thayer has been a Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and has taught at Dartmouth College and the University of Minnesota [//Darwin and International Relations: On the Evolutionary Origins of War and Ethnic Conflict//, University of Kentucky Press, 2004, pg. 68 //adi]// </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Evolution provides a</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> … sentence has falsified it. </span></span>//</span>
//**Prefer evolutionary arguments—only we have defensible methodologies** <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 2004</span></span> – Thayer has been a Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and has taught at Dartmouth College and the University of Minnesota [//



Darwin and International Relations: On the Evolutionary Origins of War and Ethnic Conflict//, University of Kentucky Press, 2004, pg. 68-69// adi]

<span class="BoldUnderlining">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Evolutionary theory is …its predominant place.</span>__ </span>

==== ==== 

==﻿Specific Neg Rounds== 
===﻿V. Woodward (St Marks Hoedown) - COIN=== 
1NC: T - bases, Debt Comission CP, Russia Relations DA, Start DA, case
BLOCK: 2NC - debt comission, case. 1NR - ptx
2NR - debt comission, ptx

===﻿V. Hendrickson (St Marks Hoedown) - Remove Detention Centers from Afghanistan=== 
1NC: ASPEC, Courts, Start DA, Habeas Corpus CP, case
Habeas Corpus CP text: the United States federal government should issue habeas corpus to detainees held at detention centers in Afghanistan.
BLOCK: 2NC- Courts, Habeas Corpus CP, case. 1NR - ptx
2NR: courts cp, ptx, case

===V. Juan Diego Catholic (Meadows) - Sk troops aff=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">1NC: Vagueness, Debt Comission CP, Uniqueness CP, Politics, SK presence DA, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">BLOCK: Debt Comission, SK presence DA, case, Ptx</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">2NR: Debt Comission, Ptx </span>


===V. Loyola (Meadows) - Critical Afghanistan Drones Aff=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">1NC: framework, civilian casualties cp, Courts Cp, ptx, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">BLOCK: courts, case, framework, ptx</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">2NR: Courts, ptx, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Civilian Casualties Cp text: The United States federal government will institute a policy of zero civilian casualties for all major combat operations in Afghanistan and drone operations in Pakistan. It should ensure such operations, including air strikes, are conducted only after a collateral damage assessment is completed indicating all relevant intelligence points to zero civilian casualties. Support operations for “troops in contact” missions are to prioritize disengagement if no damage assessment can be completed. The United States federal government should negotiate a Status of Forces Agreement with the Afghan government clearly demarcating legitimate areas of basing and operation for the U.S. military. The United States should establishing a compensation fund for civilian deaths resulting from its military operations. The United States Departments of State and Treasury should convene international working groups through Friends of Pakistan to fund and implement an economic rescue package for Pakistan. This economic rescue package should include employment creation, humanitarian assistance and technical support for nuclear confidence-building measures between Pakistan and India, including ground based sensors. </span>

===V. Damien GF (Meadows) - Marines Aff=== 
1NC: Okinawa Adv CP, Japan Politics,Detrrence, Start, case

BLOCK: Japan Ptx, case, Start
2nR: Start case


===V. Barstow(Glenbrooks)- Iraq=== 
1NC: Iraq PIC, Tax Cuts (politics), ASPEC, T Bases, Courts CP, case

Block: ASPEC, Iraq PIC, Courts, Case, and Tax Cuts

2NR: Tax Cuts, Courts

===V. Phoenix Military Academy(Glenbrooks)-South Korea Kritikal=== 
1NC: Reps PIC, Courts CP, Tax Cuts, T bases, case, framework

Block: Reps PIC, Courts, Tax Cuts, case

2NR: Tax Cuts and Case

===V. Kent Denver LM (Glenbrooks)-South Korea=== 
1NC: ASPEC, T Bases, South Korea Econ DA, Presence DA, Courts CP, Tax Cuts, case

Block: T bases, Presence DA, Tax Cuts, case

2NR: Presence DA and case


===V. Blake MM (Glenbrooks)- Drones=== 
1NC: T Combat, Tax Cuts, Courts CP, Civilian Casualties CP, Tax Cuts

Block: Case, Tax Cuts, Civilian Casualties CP,

2NR: Tax Cuts and Case



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**V. Loyola AD (Golden Desert)- Drones**</span>=== 

1NC: T Bases, ASPEC, Courts CP, Framework, SKFTA, Case

Block: ASPEC, Case, Courts CP, SKFTA

2NR: Courts and SKFTA



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**V. Notre Dame GM (Golden Desert)- Japan Navy**</span>=== 

1NC: T Bases, Congress CP, Clean Energy Reverse Politics, Case (China War Good and Asian Prolif Good)

Block: Congress CP, Reverse Politics, Case (Impact Turns)

2NR: Congress CP, Reverse Politics, Case (China War Inevitable)



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**V. Bellarmine VL (Golden Desert)- Japan BMD**</span>=== 

1NC: ASPEC, T Bases, Courts CP, Advantage CP, SKFTA, Case

Block: Courts CP, Advantage CP, Case, SKFTA

2NR: Case, Courts CP, SKFTA


===V. Greenhill NK (Harvard)- Japan Marines=== 

1NC: Congress CP, Renewable Energy Reverse Politics, Deterrence, Japan Politics, Case

Block: Congress CP, Renewable Energy, Deterrence, Case

2NR: Congress CP and Renewable Energy Reverse Politics

===V. Newark Science CJ (Harvard)- remove all presence from all countries=== 

1NC: Framework, ASPEC, PIC out of South Korea, Courts CP, SKFTA, case

Block: Framework, PIC out of South Korea, SKFTA, case

2NR: Framework

===V. Baltimore Talent Development (Harvard)=== 

1NC: Framework, Cap 1st K, Court CP

Block: Framework, Cap 1st K, Court CP

2NR; Framework


===V. Lexington VE (Harvard)- COIN=== 

1NC: Uniqueness CP, Courts CP, Iran DA, SKFTA, Withdrawal DA, T Bases, ASPEC

Block: Iran DA, SKFTA, Courts CP, case

2NR: Iran DA, case


===V. Pembroke HV (Harvard)- Iraq=== 

1NC: Framework, ASPEC, Iraq PIC, Courts CP, SKFTA, Iran DA, case

Block: Iraq PIC, SKFTA, Courts CP, case

2NR: Iraq PIC and Case

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]