[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PRECARIOUS LIFE AFFIRMATIVE</span>**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Life is precarious and cannot be statically defined – we must recognize the necessary conditions that allow humans to have value </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Butler 2k9</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> (Judith, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">PhD, Yale, Maxine Elliot Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature, “Frames of War: When is Life Grievable?”, Verso, 2009, pp. 13-4[AAK]) </span>
__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">To say that a life …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> from the start. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">To deny the precarity of life disregards the grievability that gives life meaning – life only has value is we recognize the subjectivity and framing of our interactions </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Butler 2k9</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> (Judith, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">PhD, Yale, Maxine Elliot Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature, “Frames of War: When is Life Grievable?”, Verso, 2009, pp. 50-2[AAK]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">One might, for instance, … as affect itself. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Only the grievability of life can open the field for contestation of violence and identity </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Butler 2k9 </span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">(Judith, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">PhD, Yale, Maxine Elliot Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature, “Frames of War: When is Life Grievable?”, Verso, 2009, pp. 180-1 [AAK]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">For the injunction to … the carefully crafted "fuck you." </span>

<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"><Yes, that bad word is part of the card – I don’t read it> </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burden analysis – must show nuclear weapons deny the precarity of life </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The nuclear age demands a referent to the ultimate even that cannot be account for in the limited calculation of the military strategist </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Derrida 84</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> (Jacques Derrida, Professor of the Humanities at the <span style="color: #0645ad;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California,_Irvine|University of California, Irvine]]</span>; Catherine Porter; Philip Lewis. “No Apocalypse, Not Now (Full Speed Ahead, Seven Missiles, Seven Missives)” Diacritics, Vol. 14, No. 2, Nuclear Criticism. (Summer, 1984), pp. 20-31., published by The Johns Hopkins University Press [AAK]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">We are speaking of stakes …its modes of persuasion or intimidation. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The nuclear age requires us to confront the undecidable of the catastrosphe through new relations that are not bound to techno militaristic discourse </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Derrida 84</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> (Jacques Derrida, Professor of the Humanities at the <span style="color: #0645ad;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California,_Irvine|University of California, Irvine]]</span>; Catherine Porter; Philip Lewis. “No Apocalypse, Not Now (Full Speed Ahead, Seven Missiles, Seven Missives)” Diacritics, Vol. 14, No. 2, Nuclear Criticism. (Summer, 1984), pp. 20-31., published by The Johns Hopkins University Press [AAK]) </span>
//<span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Second reason. </span>//<span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">So we are not experts in … **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__of another "pragmatics."__ </span>**</span>


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Nuclear war is not only a spectacle that will never happen but justifies systems of control through the securitization of society </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Baudrillard 81</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> [Jean, <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">professor of philosophy of culture and media criticism at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, </span>“Simulacra and Simulation” p. 32-35] </span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The apotheosis of simulation … this scenario are not free-the whole world is satellized). </span>


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Nuclear weapons are geopolitical tools to mobilize populations in name of the sovereign – life becomes definable and expendable destroying the precarity of life </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Bussolini 2k8</span>__</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;"> (<span class="style11"><span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Jeffrey, Associate Professor of Sociology and Women's Studies, College of Staten Island. </span></span>“Nuclear State of Exception: Reading and Extension of Foucault's Concepts of Biopower and Biopolitics in Agamben and the Nuclear Age” 2008 [AAK]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Near the beginning …**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> __nuclear technology.__ </span>**</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">Life becomes a tool of the state to justify atrocity and biopolitical exploitation </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">Foucault 78 </span>__**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">(Michel, Professor of Philosophy at the College de France, The History Of Sexuality: An Introduction, Volume 1, pp. 136-137) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Since the classical age … phenomena of population </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND the sovereign defining of life dehumanizes subjects </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">Butler 2k4</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Judith, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">PhD, Yale, Maxine Elliot Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature, Precarious Life: The powers of Mourning and Violence, p. 97-8 [AAK])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Although I cannot … and legal consequences </span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nuclear weapons endorse a the genocidal mentality that allows for atrocities to happen</span>**</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">Nandy 98</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;"> (Ashis, Fellow at the. Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, New Delhi, “The Epidemic of Nuclearism – A Clinical Profile of the Genocidal Mentality</span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 12.0pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">July 10, 1998 [AAK]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Nuclearism is the ideology … __socially and psycho-logi-cally.__ </span>

==Negative== 

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Greenhill Round 1</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Realism Off</span>** </span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">Reasons why states aren't moral actors </span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">The international realm is anarchic and unpredictable so each state must act in its interest to maintain existence </span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kocs 94</span>__** <span style="color: black;">(Stephen A, ( Prof at College of the Holy Cross), “Explaining the Strategic Behavior of States: International Law as System Structure”International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 38, No. 4. (Dec., 1994), pp. 535-556. <span style="cursor: pointer;">[[@http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0020-8833%28199412%2938%3A4%3C535%3AETSBOS%3E2.0.CO%3B2-O]]</span> ) </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 12pt;"> To neorealists, the most fundamental ... their relative capabilities.” </span>


<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in;">Reasons why we prioritize citizens </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 14.25pt;">Even if international moral norms exist, the content of these rules are contextual to each nation since they are constructed through the norms of a society. </span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Philström 5</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 12.0pt;">(Sami, Professor of Practical Philosophy at the University of Jyväskylä, Finland "Pragmatic Moral Realism: A Transcendental Defense" - 2005) </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 14.25pt;">Norms from community ... //non-scientific// as “queer.” </span>


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Asteroids CP</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Text: States ought to possess nuclear weapons for the purpose of asteroid defense.</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">Net Benefit - </span>


Nukes key to diverting asteroids 
<span style="cursor: pointer;">//<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt;">HSW 2k10 (“Scientist says nuclear weapons best bet for saving Earth from asteroids” 30 June 2010 http:/homelandsecuritynewswire.com/scientist-says-nuclear-weapons-best-bet-saving-earth-asteroids)</span>//</span> 
//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Part of the problem ...</span>// 
//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">make a test unlikely.</span>//


//<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 14.25pt;">nuclear weapons work </span>//

//<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">__<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Bland 2k5</span>__ <span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">(Philip A, Department of Earth Science and Engineering, Imperial College London, “Impact Rate on Earth”, 2005 [AAK]) </span></span>//
//<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">Given current rates ... __asteroid__ (<span style="cursor: pointer;">[[http://rsta.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/363/1837/2793.full#ref-26|Holsapple 2003]]</span>). </span>//


//<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">Asteroids are a threat – risks extinction </span>//

//<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">__<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Kazan and Sato 2k10</span>__ <span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">(Case and Rebecca, "Asteroid Impacts are the Biggest Threat to Advanced Life in the Milky Way" -Stephen Hawking” Jan 7 2010, <span style="cursor: pointer;">[[http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2010/01/asteroid-impacts-are-the-biggest-threat-to-advanced-life-in-the-milky-way-stephen-hawking-a-daily-ga.html]]</span> [AAK])</span></span>//
//<span style="color: #333333; line-height: 14.25pt;"> Stephen Hawking ...dangerous Earth-orbit-crossing comets and asteroids </span>//


//**Greenhill Round 2**//

//**Butler K**//

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Life is precarious and cannot be statically defined – we must recognize the necessary conditions that allow humans to have value </span>//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Butler 2k9</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Judith, PhD, Yale, Maxine Elliot Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature, “Frames of War: When is Life Grievable?”, Verso, 2009, pp. 13-4[AAK]) </span>**//
//**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">To say that a life …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> from the start. </span>**//


//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">To deny the precarity of life disregards the grievability that gives life meaning – life only has value is we recognize the subjectivity and framing of our interactions </span>//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Butler 2k9</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Judith, PhD, Yale, Maxine Elliot Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature, “Frames of War: When is Life Grievable?”, Verso, 2009, pp. 50-2[AAK]) </span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> One might, for instance, … as affect itself. </span>**//


//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">link - absolute ethics fail - Only the grievability of life can open the field for contestation of violence and identity </span>//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Butler 2k9 </span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Judith, PhD, Yale, Maxine Elliot Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature, “Frames of War: When is Life Grievable?”, Verso, 2009, pp. 180-1 [AAK]) </span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">For the injunction to … the carefully crafted "fuck you." </span>**//


//**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Evaluations of vulnerability are a pre-requisite to other frameworks which attempt to evaluate harm </span>**//
//**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Butler 2k4</span>__</span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">(</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8.0pt;">Judith, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">PhD, Yale, Maxine Elliot Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature, </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">Precarious Life: The powers of Mourning and Violence, p. 30-2 [AAK])</span>//

//<span style="color: black;">But this can be ... **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__qualify as "grievable."__</span>**</span>//



//**<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">Derrida K</span>**//


//<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The nuclear age demands a referent to the ultimate even that cannot be account for in the limited calculation of the military strategist</span>**</span>//
//<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Derrida 84</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Jacques Derrida, Professor of the Humanities at the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: #0645ad; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California,_Irvine|University of California, Irvine]]</span>; Catherine Porter; Philip Lewis. “No Apocalypse, Not Now (Full Speed Ahead, Seven Missiles, Seven Missives)” Diacritics, Vol. 14, No. 2, Nuclear Criticism. (Summer, 1984), pp. 20-31., published by The Johns Hopkins University Press [AAK])</span></span>//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">We are speaking of stakes …its modes of persuasion or intimidation.</span>//


//**<span style="color: black;">MILITARISTIC DISCOURSE LIMITS THE POSSIBILITIES FOR CONFRONTING THE ABSOLUTE UNPREDICTABILITY OF NUCLEAR CONFLICT </span>**//
//**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; color: black;">Derrida 84</span>__</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Jacques Derrida, Professor of the Humanities at the <span style="color: #0645ad;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California,_Irvine|University of California, Irvine]]</span>; Catherine Porter; Philip Lewis. “No Apocalypse, Not Now (Full Speed Ahead, Seven Missiles, Seven Missives)” Diacritics, Vol. 14, No. 2, Nuclear Criticism. (Summer, 1984), pp. 20-31., published by The Johns Hopkins University Press [AAK]) </span>//
<span style="color: black;">Third reason. **__....__**</span>//<span style="color: black;">the most vulgar psychology. </span>//



//<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The nuclear age requires us to confront the undecidable of the catastrosphe through new relations that are not bound to techno militaristic discourse</span>**</span>//
//<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Derrida 84</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Jacques Derrida, Professor of the Humanities at the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: #0645ad; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California,_Irvine|University of California, Irvine]]</span>; Catherine Porter; Philip Lewis. “No Apocalypse, Not Now (Full Speed Ahead, Seven Missiles, Seven Missives)” Diacritics, Vol. 14, No. 2, Nuclear Criticism. (Summer, 1984), pp. 20-31., published by The Johns Hopkins University Press [AAK])</span></span>//
Second reason.// So we are not experts in … **__of another "pragmatics."__**

**<span style="color: black;">THE KRITIK COMES FIRST </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: yellow; color: black;">Derrida 84</span>__</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Jacques Derrida, Professor of the Humanities at the <span style="color: #0645ad;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California,_Irvine|University of California, Irvine]]</span>; Catherine Porter; Philip Lewis. “No Apocalypse, Not Now (Full Speed Ahead, Seven Missiles, Seven Missives)” Diacritics, Vol. 14, No. 2, Nuclear Criticism. (Summer, 1984), pp. 20-31., published by The Johns Hopkins University Press [AAK]) </span>
<span style="color: black;">If we are bound ... only invention possible.</span>



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]