=BULLET--Margaret= 

NOTE
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">if you have any questions about cites or want us to put up a specific cite email Donnie if we were neg and Maggie if we were aff.
Donnie: [[mailto:ilikgrapes@gmail.com|ilikgrapes@gmail.com]]
Maggie: [[mailto:mrgrtstrong685@gmail.com|mrgrtstrong685@gmail.com]]
[[toc]]


</span>
=<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
NOTE- don't be fooled if you debate us.these are the same cards; Donnie just refuses to be boxed in by reading tags so he makes them up
== == 

==NDCA/IHSA stuff== 
we took out the Iran advantage and put the China one back in. then we put the Davis evidence back in and preempted the NATO and India DA.


==New 1AC Ev Added at CPS RR/Berk== 
Took out China stuff, added this to stability 
Scenario 2 is Iran and regionalism

Relations are faltering-Iran hates large footprint—containment and fear of it causing instability. They want a draw down in forces and a coherent strategy to take down the taliban.
Leverett 10 (Hillary Mann Leverett, CEO of the political risk consultancy STRATEGA, is a former official with the National Security Council, State Department, and the U.S. mission to the United Nations “ AfPak Behind the Lines: Iran in Afghanistan and Pakistan” robi http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/07/06/afpak_behind_the_lines_iran_in_afghanistan_and_pakistan //Donnie)//
//In contrast to the United States, …a resurgent Taliban.//

//Iran is building their nuclear stockpile- they want the US out of Afghanistan//
//Al Jazeera 10 [Al Jazeera Global News; “Iran demands US troop withdrawal”; April 18, 2010; http://english.aljazeera.net/news/middleeast/2010/04/201041854124873989.html// STRONG]
The Iranian president …civilian energy needs. 

Status quo Iran proliferation triggers an Israel Strike and makes terrorism inevitable, destroys US hegemony and causes wide-ranging middle-east war. Sanctions don’t solve.
Council on Foreign Relations 11/22 [http://www.cfr.org/israel/new-book-authors-simon-allin-advocate-containing-iran-forestall-israeli-attack/p23480 //jb]//
//As the international community's …role in the world.”//


//Israel thinks it can pull off a benign airstrike, but there will be escalation and regional conflict//
//Simon 1/19 [Posted at 1:45 PM ET, 01/19/2011 “Will Israel strike at Iran's nuclear program?” By Steven Simon http://voices.washingtonpost.com/political-bookworm/2011/01/will_israel_strike_at_irans_nu.html, Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations// jb]

It is not entirely clear …dangerous regional circumstances.

That conflict goes nuclear and causes extinction.
Steinbach, DC Iraq Coalition, 2002 (John, http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2002/03/00_steinbach_israeli-wmd.htm, March)
Meanwhile, the existence …a world conflagration." (44)


Switching to CT operations and decreasing troop levels decreases the perception of containment and solves Iran proliferation and stability in the region.
Oppenheimer et al 8 [Michael Oppenheimer, the founder of the project, has organized over thirty conferences devoted to scenario development and foreign policy analysis for the State Department, the Defense Department, the National Intelligence Council, the Central Intelligence Agency, the U.S. Institute of Peace, the Brookings Institution, the Council on Foreign Relations, the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, the Hart Rudman Commission and the Presidents Science Advisor. He is a professor at the Center for Global Affairs at NY]
Since this …for them to do so.

Post plan, regional balancing constrains Iran and makes Iran proliferation not an issue- prevents any instability or war but doesn’t collapse US-Iran relations.
Oppenheimer et al 8 [Michael Oppenheimer, the founder of the project, has organized over thirty conferences devoted to scenario development and foreign policy analysis for the State Department, the Defense Department, the National Intelligence Council, the Central Intelligence Agency, the U.S. Institute of Peace, the Brookings Institution, the Council on Foreign Relations, the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, the Hart Rudman Commission and the Presidents Science Advisor. He is a professor at the Center for Global Affairs at NY]
The Balance of Power …to American interests. 

==COIN 1AC (Emory)== 

<span style="color: black;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence assigned to the counterinsurgency mission in Afghanistan.</span>
<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1- Stability </span>**</span>

<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Despite 9 years of fighting, the situation in Afghanistan worsens daily – COIN is failing and </span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">only breeds resentment - failed central government, corruption in the ANSF, police failure, and insurgent spillover all make collapse of Afghanistan and Pakistan stability inevitable </span></span></span>

<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.thenation.com/authors/michael-cohen-0|**Cohen**]]</span> **1/3/11 [Michael A. Cohen, a senior fellow at the American Security Project; The Nation;** <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.thenation.com/article/157154/tossing-afghan-coin?page=0,0|**http://www.thenation.com/article/157154/tossing-afghan-coin?page=0,0**]]</span> **(includes the next web page of the article) //STRONG]//** </span></span></span>
<span style="color: black;"> //<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">U</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">__nder the logic of COIN__</span></span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">… from infantry companies." </span></span>//</span>


<span style="color: black;"> //<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">We isolate two internal links to India-Pakistan nuclear war: </span>**</span>//</span>

<span style="color: black;"> //<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">First, absent effective CT strategy for Pakistan, a Mumbai-style terrorist attack on India from Pakistani militant strongholds is inevitable – this means al Qaeda safe havens in Afghanistan become inevitable, and an Indo-Pakistan conflict that goes nuclear </span>**</span>//</span>

<span style="color: black;"> //<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Bergen 9/15/10** </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">[“The Evolving Nature of Terrorism Nine Years after the 9/11 Attacks” Peter Bergen is a Counterterrorism Strategy Initiative Co-Director, New America Foundation, CNN National Security Analyst, NYU Center on Law and Security Research Fellow, Testimony presented before the House of RepresentativesHomeland Security Committee, [[http://homeland.house.gov/SiteDocuments/20100915101012-10361.pdf|**http://homeland.house.gov/SiteDocuments/20100915101012-10361.pdf**]] </span></span></span>// jb] </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**__The Mumbai attacks …__**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> maybe 50 to 100.” </span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Second, Independently, Afghan ethnic fragmentation from the ongoing conflict means Indo-Pakistan war for control that goes nuclear </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Morgan 6** </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">[Stephen, former member of the British Labour Party Exectutive Committee. He is a political psychologist, researcher into Chaos/Complexity Theory, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[@http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]</span> //Donnie]//</span> </span></span>

//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">However events may …<span class="underline">**__not be ruled out__**</span>. </span>//


//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**The impact is extinction - Even without drawing in other regional actors, an Indo- Pak nuclear war is the most likely and most severe nuclear war scenario in the current geopolitical climate—causes extinction by nuclear winter and destruction of crop yields – we outweigh on magnitude** </span></span></span>//

//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Robock and Toon 2010** </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">(Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years.. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado.[1] He received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 2010 Scientific American Magazine – </span></span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/RobockToonSciAmJan2010.pdf%20/|http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/RobockToonSciAmJan2010.pdf //]] Donnie]</span>** </span>//
//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Nuclear bombs dropped </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">...</span></span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> greatest in the tropics. </span></span>//

//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Independently of Indo-Pakistan conflict, continuing war in Afghanistan destabilizes Pakistan – leads to nuclear terrorism, Chinese, Russian and Indian draw-in and nuclear exchange** </span>//

//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Pitt 9** </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">[William Rivers, “Unstable Pakistan threatens the world”,8/5/9, </span></span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;"><span class="cite">[[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183&page_order=1&act=print]]</span></span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">, William Rivers Pitt is a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence."] </span></span></span>//

//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The situation in brief… situation. So should we all. </span>//


//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Shift to small-footprint CT stabilizes Afghanistan in the long term and makes US presence sustainable - prevents future hasty pullout and solves regional wars </span>**</span>//
//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Stewart 9** </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">(Rory Stewart, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro. From 2000 to 2002 he walked 6,000 miles on foot from Turkey to Bangladesh, “Rory Stewart Testifies on the Future of Afghanistan Before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee” Sep 16, http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan </span></span></span>// jb) 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**__The best Afghan policy would … less will be more__**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Plan’s shift to CT renews pressure on Pakistan – they reciprocate by waging a full-scale fight vs. militant groups on their side of the border, solving attacks on India and Pakistani coup impacts </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Barno and Exum 12/10** </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">[Center for New American Security Report, </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">“Responsible Transition” is part of a broader CNAS project that explores long-term </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">U.S. interests in Central and South Asia. The “Beyond Afghanistan” project is led by CNAS Senior Fellow and Senior Advisor Lieutenant General David W. Barno, U.S. Army (Ret.), and CNAS Fellow Andrew Exum, </span></span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf%20/|http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf //]] jb</span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">] </span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The nature of the U.S. ..<span class="underline"> **__yet another U.S. abandonment__**</span>. </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Lastly, there’s no risk of post-plan Taliban takeover or Al-Qaeda safe haven - CT will be enough to deter them </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Davis 9** </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">[“Go Big or Go Deep An Analysis of Strategy Options on Afghanistan 14 October 2009” LTC Daniel L. Davis, US Army, </span></span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;"><span class="cite">[[http://turcopolier.typepad.com/files/go-deep-_14-oct-09_.pdf]]</span></span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> //jb]//</span></span> </span>
//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**__Would the …on the ground__**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">. </span></span>//

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 is hegemony </span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">We will isolate three internal links to heg--</span>**


**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">First, Mission failure COIN alienates locals witch makes losing inevitable—kills morale and signals weakness collapsing heg—the plans small foot print strategy makes presence sustainable and solves all their turns</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Kuhner, 9</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">(Jeffrey, the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic)</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">America is losing …arms of extremists.</span>**



**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">second is expenses--COIN forces the US to stay in Afghanistan for at least another decade—causes high deficits</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Dreyfuss 10 </span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">(Robert Dreyfuss Obama, Petraeus, and the Cult of COIN in Afghanistan is the author of Devil's Game: How the United States Helped Unleash Fundamentalist Islam (Henry Holt/Metropolitan Books, 2005). An independent journalist based in Alexandria, Virginia, Dreyfuss covers national security for Rolling Stone, has written extensively on Iraq and the war on terrorism for The Nation, The American Prospect, and Mother Jones. He has appeared on NPR, MSNBC, CNBC, and many other broadcast outlets, and wrote the blog "The Dreyfuss Report" for TomPaine.com, which now appears on his web site, www.robertdreyfuss.com. jun 28 [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/bob-dreyfuss/obama-petraeus-and-the-cu_b_628122.htmlDonnie|**__http://www.huffingtonpost.com/bob-dreyfuss/obama-petraeus-and-the-cu_b_628122.htmlDonnie__**]])</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Still, it’s worrying… fewer, next year.</span>**



**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">High deficits obliterate heg—the USSR proves spending billions in Afghanistan for a sustained period collapses heg</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Tom</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> Engelhard</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">t is the author of The End of Victory Culture, a history of American triumphalism in the Cold War era. He is a consulting editor for Metropolitan Books, a fellow of the Nation Institute, and a teaching fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. “Whistling Past the Afghan Graveyard Where Empires Go to Die” February 5, 20</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">09</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">. Available at:[[http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175030/the_empire_v_the_graveyard|**__http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175030/the_empire_v_the_graveyard__**]]</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Back in 1979, National … burials, not resurrections.</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">COIN is causing imperial overstretch due to high demand for tons of troops—makes heg decline inevitable</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Pyne, 9 </span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">- Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, [[http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/|**__http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/__**]])</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Since we invaded Iraq … Georgia this past year.</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Heg solves war, proliferation and creates a bandwagoning effect, it is also sustainable</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 2006 </span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">(Bradley, associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University, In Defense of Primacy, The National Interest, November 1, [[http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+defense+of+primacy-a0155089106|**__http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+def...cy-a0155089106__**]])</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">U.S. primacy--and … of the United States.</span>**



**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">China rise will be violent and they will try to kick out the US—we must be able to check them to maintain our posture in East Asia</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">**Mearsheimer 5**</span></span> (John, professor of political science at the University of Chicago and the author of The Tragedy of Great Power Politics “The Rise of China Will Not Be Peaceful at All” Nov. 18. [[http://mearsheimer.uchicago.edu/pdfs/P0014.pdf]]</span>//**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Donnie)</span>**//
//**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">THE question …</span>**<span class="underline0">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> appears in Eurasia</span>**</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>**//



**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">The plan is necessary and sufficient to solve—COIN is preventing US focus on China’s rise</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Layne 10</span></span></span>** //**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">(Christopher Layne, the Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at Texas A&M University's Bush School of Government and Public Service, is writing a book on the collapse of the Pax Americana. “Petraeus' dubious strategy in Afghanistan”Aug. 23 <span style="font-weight: normal;">[[http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2010-08-23/news/ct-oped-0823-afghanistan-20100823_1_iraq-surge-petraeus-afghanistan/2]]</span></span>**//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Donnie)</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">On its own terms…</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> like Asia’s past</span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>**



<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> **<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">East Asian instability causes global and nuclear war—no de-escalation</span></span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> Landay 2k</span></span>**</span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">(Jonathan S. </span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Landay , national security and intelligence correspondent, March 10, 2000 , </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">We will isolate three internal links to heg--</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> //<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">First, Mission failure COIN alienates locals witch makes losing inevitable—kills morale and signals weakness collapsing heg—the plans small foot print strategy makes presence sustainable and solves all their turns</span>//</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> //<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Kuhner, 9 </span>//</span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">(Jeffrey, the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic)</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">America is losing …arms of extremists.</span>**



<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> //<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">second is expenses--COIN forces the US to stay in Afghanistan for at least another decade—causes high deficits</span>//</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> //<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Dreyfuss 10 </span>//</span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">(Robert Dreyfuss Obama, Petraeus, and the Cult of COIN in Afghanistan is the author of Devil's Game: How the United States Helped Unleash Fundamentalist Islam (Henry Holt/Metropolitan Books, 2005). An independent journalist based in Alexandria, Virginia, Dreyfuss covers national security for Rolling Stone, has written extensively on Iraq and the war on terrorism for The Nation, The American Prospect, and Mother Jones. He has appeared on NPR, MSNBC, CNBC, and many other broadcast outlets, and wrote the blog "The Dreyfuss Report" for TomPaine.com, which now appears on his web site, www.robertdreyfuss.com. jun 28 [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/bob-dreyfuss/obama-petraeus-and-the-cu_b_628122.htmlDonnie|__http://www.huffingtonpost.com/bob-dreyfuss/obama-petraeus-and-the-cu_b_628122.htmlDonnie__]])</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Still, it’s worrying… fewer, next year.</span>**



<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> //<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">High deficits obliterate heg—the USSR proves spending billions in Afghanistan for a sustained period collapses heg</span>//</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Tom</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> Engelhard</span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">t is the author of The End of Victory Culture, a history of American triumphalism in the Cold War era. He is a consulting editor for Metropolitan Books, a fellow of the Nation Institute, and a teaching fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. “Whistling Past the Afghan Graveyard Where Empires Go to Die” February 5, 20</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">09</span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">. Available at:[[http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175030/the_empire_v_the_graveyard|__http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175030/the_empire_v_the_graveyard__]]</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Back in 1979, National … burials, not resurrections.</span>**



<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> //<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Heg solves war, proliferation and creates a bandwagoning effect, it is also sustainable</span>//</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> //<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Thayer 2006 </span>//</span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">(Bradley, associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University, In Defense of Primacy, The National Interest, November 1, [[http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+defense+of+primacy-a0155089106|__http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+def...cy-a0155089106__]])</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">U.S. primacy--and … of the United States.</span>**


<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> //<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Scenario two is overreach, COIN is causing imperial overstretch due to high demand for tons of troops—makes heg decline inevitable</span>//</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> //<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Pyne, 9 </span>//</span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">- Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, [[http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/|__http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/__]])</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Since we invaded Iraq … Georgia this past year.</span>**



<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> //<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">China rise will be violent and they will try to kick out the US—we must be able to check them to maintain our posture in East Asia</span>//</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Mearsheimer 5**</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> (John, professor of political science at the University of Chicago and the author of The Tragedy of Great Power Politics “The Rise of China Will Not Be Peaceful at All” Nov. 18. [[http://mearsheimer.uchicago.edu/pdfs/P0014.pdf]]</span>//**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Donnie)</span>**//
//**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">THE question …</span>**<span class="underline0">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> appears in Eurasia</span>**</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">.</span>**//



<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> //<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">The plan is necessary and sufficient to solve—COIN is preventing US focus on China’s rise</span>//</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Layne 10**</span> //**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">(Christopher Layne, the Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at Texas A&M University's Bush School of Government and Public Service, is writing a book on the collapse of the Pax Americana. “Petraeus' dubious strategy in Afghanistan”Aug. 23 [[http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2010-08-23/news/ct-oped-0823-afghanistan-20100823_1_iraq-surge-petraeus-afghanistan/2]]</span>**//**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Donnie)</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">On its own terms…</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> like Asia’s past</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">.</span>**



<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**East Asian instability causes global and nuclear war—no de-escalation** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Landay 2k**</span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">(</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-weight: normal;">Jonathan S. </span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Landay</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">, national security and intelligence correspondent, March 10, </span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">2000</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">, </span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-weight: normal;">Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts,” p. Lexis)</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> <span class="underline0">Few</span></span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-weight: normal;"> if any </span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">…</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-weight: normal;"> the Commerce Department.</span>**


<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**This is __the most probable__ scenario for conflict** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Tellis 4**</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">—</span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-weight: normal;">Senior Associate at Carnegie. PhD from U Chicago. Served in the U.S. Department of State as Senior Advisor to the Ambassador at the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, and briefly on the National Security Council staff as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Strategic Planning and Southwest Asia (Ashley, Assessing America’s War on Terror: Confronting Insurgency, Cementing Primacy, December 2004, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/NBRAnalysis-Tellis_December2004.pdf|**http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/NBRAnalysis-Tellis_December2004.pdf**]],)</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">One analyst, Gaurav Kampani, …</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> in the world</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">.89</span>//**








== == 
==COIN 1AC (Blake)== 


**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence assigned to the counterinsurgency mission in Afghanistan. </span>**


**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 1 is Stability </span>**


**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">COIN is doomed to failure—it will only cause instability in the short term, ending it is the only way to maintain stability </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hadar 10</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Leon T. Hadar, is a research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia. “What Happens If U.S. Troops Leave Afghanistan? Not the End of the World As We Know It” July, 28.http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011Donnie+Margaret)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> The arm-chair strategists…north of Afghanistan.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Presence is the problem—Afghanis only are siding with al-Qaeda because they resent presence --ending COIN is the only solution to solving resentment and attempts at centralization —not any of your surge cp’s </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rosen 10</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Nir, a journalist who has written extensively on American policy toward Afghanistan and Iraq.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> Something from Nothing U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan http://bostonreview.net/BR35.1/rosen.phpDonnie </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In Afghanistan, there…the Arab extremist volunteers.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Centralization causes ethnic conflicts, causes violence in the region </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cheragh 9</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">March 2nd 2009</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 5pt;">,</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> “Afghan paper highlights need for decentralization of power”, BBC News, Lexis-Nexis] </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The effort for …get more vulnerable.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CT is crucial to decentralization efforts—allows us to get local allies and wins the war, this ev also proves all of their de facto partion cp’s are not competitive </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Long 10</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Austin Long is an assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs. He presented this paper at FPRI in December 2009 as part of The Hertog Programon Grand Strategy, which is jointly sponsored by Temple University’s Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy and FPRI. “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan” http://spi.typepad.com/files/long---orbis---spring-2010.pdf//Donnie)//</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> the strategic goal... and local allies</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Decentralization is key to peace in Afghanistan—localities can sort out problems—AND this prevents Takeover. </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CASTONGUAY 2010</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">[David – former financial analyst with Sino affairs, “In praise of warlords”, Foreign Policy in Focus, February 17, http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords] </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Yet there are …forces are gone.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Afghan causes Pakistan collapse and nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Morgan 6 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Stephen, political psychologist, researcher of chaos/complexity theory; “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan?” [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.asspx?id=639]] ] </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">However events may… be ruled out</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, High troop levels destabilize Pakistan and motivates terrorism </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bandow 2009 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">[Doug, November 22, Doug Bandow is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute. He is a former special assistant to President Reagan, “Limits of US Power in Afghanistan”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11000]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Afghanistan's importance primarily …plots from Europe.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> . </span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pakistan instability causes India to launch a pre-emptive nuclear strike on Pakistan </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ricks 2001 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Thomas Ricks is the author of Fiasco: The American Military Adventure in Iraq, 2003-05, which was a no. 1 New York Times bestseller and a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2007. He is special military correspondent for The Washington Post, senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a contributing editor for Foreign Policy magazine. Washington Post – October 21, 2001 – http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> The prospect of …on strategic games.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Indo pak war escalates and goes full on—smoke yields cause extinction and turn your impacts </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Robock and Toon 10</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years.. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado.[1] He received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 20 10 Scientific American Magazine – http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war] </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nuclear bombs dropped …in the tropics.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">No risk of any our your turns— there is no incentive to attack once we leave and terrorists will never get to the US—the plan is the only way to solve </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hornberger 09</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Jacob, Founder and president of The Future of Freedom Foundation, 2/9, “Immediately Withdraw from Afghanistan Too”,http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-02-09.asp)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> “But the terrorists … terrorism in Afghanistan.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">US presence ONLY destabilizes the region—it goes one way and our impact will outweigh your turn on probability, the Taliban wont host al-Quaeda anyway </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Innocent 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Foreign Policy Analyst at Cato, ’09 (Malou Innocent, “Afghanistan = Bottomless Pit of Massive Social Engineering”, 9/2/09, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/02/afghanistan-bottomless-pit-of-massive-social-engineering) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Obsidian Wings echoes… in moralistic values.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Taliban takeover doesn’t matter- they’re only a threat when they aren’t in power </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Davis 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Go Big or Go Deep An Analysis of Strategy on Afghanistan; 10/14/09; Daniel L. Davis, US Army; http://turcoplier.typepad.com/files/go-deep-_14-oct-09_.pdf] </span>


**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 2 is hegemony </span>**


**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">First, COIN will fail, not enough troops, government illegitimacy, Taliban funding, no public support and no understanding will guarantee it—only the plans small foot print strategy solves </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nelson 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Rick,former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Q1: General McChrystal is…” approach would entail.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Internal white house reports indicate deteriorating situation on all fronts – their ev is just PR spin to cover up of internal white house recognition of inevitable defeat </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Politics Daily 12/3</span>** //<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">[David Wood, Chief military Correspondent, “White House Mulls Grim Picture of 'Deteriorating Stalemate' in Afghanistan”, http://www.politicsdaily.com/2010/12/03/white-house-mulls-grim-picture-of-deteriorating-stalemate-in-a/print/, David Wood was a correspondent successively for Time Magazine, the Los Angeles Times, Newhouse News Service and the Baltimore Sun, Wood has won the Gerald Ford Prize for Distinguished Reporting on National Defense, and in 2008 won the Headliners Club award for his reporting on Iraq. He has lectured at the Marine Staff College, the Joint Forces Staff College and the Army's Eisenhower Fellows conference, and has appeared on CNN, CSPAN, the PBS News Hour, and on BBC and National Public Radio. </span>//jb] 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> The assessments now … to be making progress.''</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We will isolate three internal links to heg-- </span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">First, Mission failure COIN alienates locals witch makes losing inevitable—kills morale and signals weakness collapsing heg—the plans small foot print strategy makes presence sustainable and solves all their turns </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kuhner, 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Jeffrey, the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> America is losing …arms of extremists.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Second is overreach, COIN is causing imperial overstretch due to high demand for tons of troops—makes heg decline inevitable </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pyne, 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">- Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Since we invaded Iraq … Georgia this past year.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Third is expenses--COIN forces the US to stay in Afghanistan for at least another decade—causes high deficits </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dreyfuss 10</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Robert Dreyfuss Obama, Petraeus, and the Cult of COIN in Afghanistan is the author of Devil's Game: How the United States Helped Unleash Fundamentalist Islam (Henry Holt/Metropolitan Books, 2005). An independent journalist based in Alexandria, Virginia, Dreyfuss covers national security for Rolling Stone, has written extensively on Iraq and the war on terrorism for The Nation, The American Prospect, and Mother Jones. He has appeared on NPR, MSNBC, CNBC, and many other broadcast outlets, and wrote the blog "The Dreyfuss Report" for TomPaine.com, which now appears on his web site, www.robertdreyfuss.com. jun 28 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/bob-dreyfuss/obama-petraeus-and-the-cu_b_628122.htmlDonnie)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Still, it’s worrying… fewer, next year.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">High deficits obliterate heg—the USSR proves spending billions in Afghanistan for a sustained period collapses heg </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Engelhardt 9</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">Tom Engelhardt is the author of The End of Victory Culture, a history of American triumphalism in the Cold War era. He is a consulting editor for Metropolitan Books, a fellow of the Nation Institute, and a teaching fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. “Whistling Past the Afghan Graveyard Where Empires Go to Die” February 5, 2009. Available at: http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175030/the_empire_v_the_graveyard] </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Back in 1979, National … burials, not resurrections.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Heg solves war, proliferation and creates a bandwagoning effect, it is also sustainable </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thayer 2006</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Bradley, associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University, In Defense of Primacy, The National Interest, November 1, http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+def...cy-a0155089106)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> U.S. primacy--and … of the United States.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">No hege turns - CT forges a middle path between strong hegemony and off-shore balancing </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Barno and Exum 12/10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> jb] </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Over the last century…end of 2011</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Collapse of Heg makes nuclear war inevitable </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Leiber 05 </span>**//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Robert, PhD from Harvard, Professor of Gov and International Affairs at Georgetown, Former consultant to the State Departent and for National Intaligence Estimates; “The American Era”; pages 53-54 </span>//STRONG]

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Phased withdrawal solves all of their turns—we need to maintain a limited CT strategy like the plan to win the war </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Stewart 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Rory Stewart, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro. From 2000 to 2002 he walked 6,000 miles on foot from Turkey to Bangladesh “Rory Stewart Testifies on the Future of Afghanistan Before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee” Sep 16, [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan]] //Donnie)//</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> The greatest risk …less will be more.</span>






==COIN 1AC (doubles of GBX)== 


**<span style="color: black;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence assigned to the counterinsurgency mission in Afghanistan.</span>**



<span style="color: black;">**Contention 1 is Stability**</span>



<span style="color: black;"> **COIN is doomed to failure—it will only cause instability in the short term, ending it is the only way to maintain stability**</span>
<span style="color: black;"> **Hadar 10** (Leon T. Hadar, is a research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia. “What Happens If U.S. Troops Leave Afghanistan? Not the End of the World As We Know It” July, 28.[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011Donnie+Margaret|__http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011Donnie+Margaret__]])</span>
<span style="color: black;"> The arm-chair strategists…north of Afghanistan.</span>



<span style="color: black;"> **Presence is the problem—Afghanis only are siding with al-Qaeda because they resent presence --ending COIN is the only solution to solving resentment and attempts at centralization —not any of your surge cp’s**</span>
<span style="color: black;"> **Rosen 10** (Nir, a journalist who has written extensively on American policy toward Afghanistan and Iraq.</span>
<span style="color: black;"> Something from Nothing U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan [[http://bostonreview.net/BR35.1/rosen.phpDonnie|__http://bostonreview.net/BR35.1/rosen.phpDonnie__]]</span>
<span style="color: black;"> In Afghanistan, there…the Arab extremist volunteers.</span>



<span style="color: black;"> **Afghanistan instability is causing Pakistan instability—radicalizes and militarizes politics**</span>
<span style="color: black;"> **Coll 9** (Steve, is president of New America Foundation, and a staff writer at The New Yorker magazine. Previously he spent 20 years as a foreign correspondent and senior editor at The Washington Post, serving as the paper's managing editor from 1998 to 2004 “Afghanistan's Impact on Pakistan” Oct. 1 [[http://www.newamerica.net/publications/resources/2009/afghanistans_impact_on_pakistanDonnie|__http://www.newamerica.net/publications/resources/2009/afghanistans_impact_on_pakistanDonnie__]])</span>
<span style="color: black;"> It seems useful …the country's population</span>
<span style="color: black;"> .</span>

<span style="color: black;"> **Pakistan instability causes India to launch a pre-emptive nuclear strike on Pakistan**</span>
<span style="color: black;"> **Ricks 2001** [Thomas Ricks is the author of Fiasco: The American Military Adventure in Iraq, 2003-05, which was a no. 1 New York Times bestseller and a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2007. He is special military correspondent for The Washington Post, senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a contributing editor for Foreign Policy magazine. Washington Post – October 21, 2001 –[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer|__http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer__]]]</span>
<span style="color: black;"> The prospect of …on strategic games.</span>



<span style="color: black;"> **Indo pak war escalates and goes full on—smoke yields cause extinction and turn your impacts**</span>
<span style="color: black;"> **Robock and Toon 10** [Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years.. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado.[1] He received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 20 10 Scientific American Magazine – [[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war|__http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war__]]] **note, if this link does not work, try this one, [[http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/RobockToonSciAmJan2010.pdf]] :D**</span>
<span style="color: black;"> **Nuclear bombs dropped …in the tropics.**</span>




<span style="color: black;"> Contention 2 is hegemony</span>


<span style="color: black;"> First, COIN will fail, not enough troops, government illegitimacy, Taliban funding, no public support and no understanding will guarantee it—only the plans small foot print strategy solves</span>
<span style="color: black;"> Nelson 9 **(Rick,former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, [[http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin|__http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin__]])**</span>
<span style="color: black;"> **Q1: General McChrystal is…” approach would entail.**</span>



<span style="color: black;"> We will isolate three internal links to heg--</span>


<span style="color: black;"> First, Mission failure COIN alienates locals witch makes losing inevitable—kills morale and signals weakness collapsing heg—the plans small foot print strategy makes presence sustainable and solves all their turns</span>
<span style="color: black;"> Kuhner, 9 **(Jeffrey, the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic)**</span>
<span style="color: black;"> **America is losing …arms of extremists.**</span>



<span style="color: black;"> second is expenses--COIN forces the US to stay in Afghanistan for at least another decade—causes high deficits</span>
<span style="color: black;"> Dreyfuss 10 **(Robert Dreyfuss Obama, Petraeus, and the Cult of COIN in Afghanistan is the author of Devil's Game: How the United States Helped Unleash Fundamentalist Islam (Henry Holt/Metropolitan Books, 2005). An independent journalist based in Alexandria, Virginia, Dreyfuss covers national security for Rolling Stone, has written extensively on Iraq and the war on terrorism for The Nation, The American Prospect, and Mother Jones. He has appeared on NPR, MSNBC, CNBC, and many other broadcast outlets, and wrote the blog "The Dreyfuss Report" for TomPaine.com, which now appears on his web site, www.robertdreyfuss.com. jun 28 [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/bob-dreyfuss/obama-petraeus-and-the-cu_b_628122.htmlDonnie|__http://www.huffingtonpost.com/bob-dreyfuss/obama-petraeus-and-the-cu_b_628122.htmlDonnie__]])**</span>
<span style="color: black;"> **Still, it’s worrying… fewer, next year.**</span>



<span style="color: black;"> High deficits obliterate heg—the USSR proves spending billions in Afghanistan for a sustained period collapses heg</span>
<span style="color: black;"> **Tom** Engelhard**t is the author of The End of Victory Culture, a history of American triumphalism in the Cold War era. He is a consulting editor for Metropolitan Books, a fellow of the Nation Institute, and a teaching fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. “Whistling Past the Afghan Graveyard Where Empires Go to Die” February 5, 20**09**. Available at:[[http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175030/the_empire_v_the_graveyard|__http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175030/the_empire_v_the_graveyard__]]**</span>
<span style="color: black;"> **Back in 1979, National … burials, not resurrections.**</span>



<span style="color: black;"> Heg solves war, proliferation and creates a bandwagoning effect, it is also sustainable</span>
<span style="color: black;"> Thayer 2006 **(Bradley, associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University, In Defense of Primacy, The National Interest, November 1, [[http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+defense+of+primacy-a0155089106|__http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+def...cy-a0155089106__]])**</span>
<span style="color: black;"> **U.S. primacy--and … of the United States.**</span>


<span style="color: black;"> Scenario two is overreach, COIN is causing imperial overstretch due to high demand for tons of troops—makes heg decline inevitable</span>
Pyne, 9 **- Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “**
**Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, [[http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/|__http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/__]])**
**Since we invaded Iraq … Georgia this past year.**



China rise will be violent and they will try to kick out the US—we must be able to check them to maintain our posture in East Asia
<span class="cite">Mearsheimer 5</span> (John, professor of political science at the University of Chicago and the author of The Tragedy of Great Power Politics “The Rise of China Will Not Be Peaceful at All” Nov. 18. http://mearsheimer.uchicago.edu/pdfs/P0014.pdfDonnie)
THE question …<span class="underline0"> appears in Eurasia</span>.



The plan is necessary and sufficient to solve—COIN is preventing US focus on China’s rise
<span class="cite">Layne 10</span> (Christopher Layne, the Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at Texas A&M University's Bush School of Government and Public Service, is writing a book on the collapse of the Pax Americana. “Petraeus' dubious strategy in Afghanistan”Aug. 23 http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2010-08-23/news/ct-oped-0823-afghanistan-20100823_1_iraq-surge-petraeus-afghanistan/2**//Donnie)//**
**On its own terms…<span class="underline0"> like Asia’s past</span>.**



<span class="cite">East Asian instability causes global and nuclear war—no de-escalation</span>
<span class="cite"> Landay 2k</span> **(Jonathan S. <span class="citebold"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;">Landay</span></span>**, national security and intelligence correspondent, March 10, **<span class="citebold"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;">2000</span></span>**, **Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts,” p. Lexis)**
**<span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Few</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> if any <span class="underline0">…</span> the Commerce Department.</span>**


<span class="cite">This is __the most probable__ scenario for conflict</span>
<span class="cite"> Tellis 4</span>—**Senior Associate at Carnegie. PhD from U Chicago. Served in the U.S. Department of State as Senior Advisor to the Ambassador at the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, and briefly on the National Security Council staff as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Strategic Planning and Southwest Asia (Ashley, Assessing America’s War on Terror: Confronting Insurgency, Cementing Primacy, December 2004, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/NBRAnalysis-Tellis_December2004.pdf]],)**
**One analyst, Gaurav Kampani, …<span class="Emphasis2"> in the world</span>.89**





Contention 3 is solvency


Small foot print strategy is best—it preserves stability in Afghanistan and prevents total withdrawal, which would makes all their turns inevitable
Blackwill 10 **(Robert D. Blackwill served as U.S. ambassador to India, deputy national security advisor for strategic planning and presidential envoy to Iraq in the George W. Bush administration International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs "A De Facto Partition for Afghanistan" July 7. [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/20240/de_facto_partition_for_afghanistan.html?breadcrumb=%25Donnie|__http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/20240/de_facto_partition_for_afghanistan.html?breadcrumb=%25Donnie__]])**
**The Obama administration's …future of Iraq**



Phased withdrawal solves all of their turns—we need to maintain a limited CT strategy like the plan to win the war
Stewart 9 **(Rory Stewart, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro. From 2000 to 2002 he walked 6,000 miles on foot from Turkey to Bangladesh “Rory Stewart Testifies on the Future of Afghanistan Before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee” Sep 16, [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistanDonnie|__http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistanDonnie__]])**
**The greatest risk …less will be more.**



No risk of any our your turns— there is no incentive to attack once we leave and terrorists will never get to the US—the plan is the only way to solve
Hornberger 09 **(Jacob, Founder and president of The Future of Freedom Foundation, 2/9, “Immediately Withdraw from Afghanistan Too”,[[http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-02-09.asp|__http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-02-09.asp__]])**
**“But the terrorists … terrorism in Afghanistan.**



No turns—US presence ONLY destabilizes the region—the Taliban won’t host al-Qaeda anyway
Innocent 09 **Foreign Policy Analyst at Cato,’09 (Malou Innocent, “Afghanistan = Bottomless Pit of Massive Social Engineering”, 9/2/09,[[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/02/afghanistan-bottomless-pit-of-massive-social-engineering|__http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/02/afghanistan-bottomless-pit-of-massive-social-engineering__]]**



==**COIN 1AC (GBX, Dowling)**== 



Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence assigned to the counterinsurgency mission in Afghanistan.


Contention 1 is Stability


COIN is doomed to failure—it will only cause instability in the short term, ending it is the only way to maintain stability
Hadar 10 **(Leon T. Hadar, is a research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia. “What Happens If U.S. Troops Leave Afghanistan? Not the End of the World As We Know It” July, 28.http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011Donnie+Margaret)**
**The arm-chair strategists…north of Afghanistan.**


Presence is the problem—Afghanis only are siding with al-Qaeda because they resent presence --ending COIN is the only solution to solving resentment and attempts at centralization —not any of your surge cp’s
Rosen 10 **(Nir, a journalist who has written extensively on American policy toward Afghanistan and Iraq.**
**Something from Nothing U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan http://bostonreview.net/BR35.1/rosen.phpDonnie**
**In Afghanistan, there…the Arab extremist volunteers.**


Centralization causes ethnic conflicts, causes violence in the region
Cheragh**, March 2nd 20**09, **“Afghan paper highlights need for decentralization of power”, BBC News, Lexis-Nexis**
**The effort for …get more vulnerable.**


Afghanistan instability is causing Pakistan instability—radicalizes and militarizes politics
Coll 9 **(Steve, is president of New America Foundation, and a staff writer at The New Yorker magazine. Previously he spent 20 years as a foreign correspondent and senior editor at The Washington Post, serving as the paper's managing editor from 1998 to 2004 “Afghanistan's Impact on Pakistan” Oct. 1 http://www.newamerica.net/publications/resources/2009/afghanistans_impact_on_pakistanDonnie)**
**It seems useful …the country's population**
**.**

Pakistan instability causes India to launch a pre-emptive nuclear strike on Pakistan
Ricks 2001 **[Thomas Ricks is the author of Fiasco: The American Military Adventure in Iraq, 2003-05, which was a no. 1 New York Times bestseller and a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2007. He is special military correspondent for The Washington Post, senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a contributing editor for Foreign Policy magazine. Washington Post – October 21, 2001 – http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer]**
**The prospect of …on strategic games.**


Indo pak war escalates and goes full on—smoke yields cause extinction and turn your impacts
Robock and Toon 10 **[Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years.. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado.[1] He received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 20 10 Scientific American Magazine – http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war]**
**Nuclear bombs dropped …in the tropics.**



Our claim is reverse causal—decentralization is key to stability
Goodson<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">, 2003</span>
**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Larry, professor of Middle East Studies at the U.S. Army War College, January, “Afghanistan’s Long Road to Reconstruction,” Journal of Democracy Volume 14, Number 1, Project Muse]</span>**

<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="underline">A third problem is the resurgence of the warlords…</span><span style="color: black;"> where it is most needed.</span>**


</span>
Contention 2 is hegemony



First, COIN will fail, not enough troops, government illegitimacy, Taliban funding, no public support and no understanding will guarantee it—only the plans small foot print strategy solves
Nelson 9 **(Rick,former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin)**
**Q1: General McChrystal is…” approach would entail.**


We will isolate three internal links to heg--


First, Mission failure COIN alienates locals witch makes losing inevitable—kills morale and signals weakness collapsing heg—the plans small foot print strategy makes presence sustainable and solves all their turns
Kuhner, 9 **(Jeffrey, the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic)**
**America is losing …arms of extremists.**


Second is overreach, COIN is causing imperial overstretch due to high demand for tons of troops—makes heg decline inevitable
Pyne, 9 **- Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “**
**Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/)**
**Since we invaded Iraq … Georgia this past year.**


Third is expenses--COIN forces the US to stay in Afghanistan for at least another decade—causes high deficits
Dreyfuss 10 **(Robert Dreyfuss Obama, Petraeus, and the Cult of COIN in Afghanistan is the author of Devil's Game: How the United States Helped Unleash Fundamentalist Islam (Henry Holt/Metropolitan Books, 2005). An independent journalist based in Alexandria, Virginia, Dreyfuss covers national security for Rolling Stone, has written extensively on Iraq and the war on terrorism for The Nation, The American Prospect, and Mother Jones. He has appeared on NPR, MSNBC, CNBC, and many other broadcast outlets, and wrote the blog "The Dreyfuss Report" for TomPaine.com, which now appears on his web site, www.robertdreyfuss.com. jun 28 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/bob-dreyfuss/obama-petraeus-and-the-cu_b_628122.htmlDonnie)**
**Still, it’s worrying… fewer, next year.**


High deficits obliterate heg—the USSR proves spending billions in Afghanistan for a sustained period collapses heg
**Tom** Engelhard**t is the author of The End of Victory Culture, a history of American triumphalism in the Cold War era. He is a consulting editor for Metropolitan Books, a fellow of the Nation Institute, and a teaching fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. “Whistling Past the Afghan Graveyard Where Empires Go to Die” February 5, 20**09**. Available at: http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175030/the_empire_v_the_graveyard**
**Back in 1979, National … burials, not resurrections.**


Heg solves war, proliferation and creates a bandwagoning effect, it is also sustainable
Thayer 2006 **(Bradley, associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University, In Defense of Primacy, The National Interest, November 1, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+defense+of+primacy-a0155089106|http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+def...cy-a0155089106]]</span>)**
**U.S. primacy--and … of the United States.**




US hegemony is sustainable- lack of viable and willing challenges, allies, and controll of the international system guarantee future U.S. primacy
Hirsh 9/12/10 //**[Michael, international affairs reporter for newsweek, winner of the 2004 national magazine award for general excellence. we're no. 11!, htt:**//www.newsweek.com/2010/08/12/how-to-understand-american-decline.html**//MSTRONG]//**




Contention 3 is solvency

Small foot print strategy is best—it preserves stability in Afghanistan and prevents total withdrawal, which would makes all their turns inevitable
Blackwill 10 **(Robert D. Blackwill served as U.S. ambassador to India, deputy national security advisor for strategic planning and presidential envoy to Iraq in the George W. Bush administration International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs "A De Facto Partition for Afghanistan" July 7. http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/20240/de_facto_partition_for_afghanistan.html?breadcrumb=%25Donnie)**
**The Obama administration's …future of Iraq**


Phased withdrawal solves all of their turns—we need to maintain a limited CT strategy like the plan to win the war
Stewart 9 **(Rory Stewart, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro. From 2000 to 2002 he walked 6,000 miles on foot from Turkey to Bangladesh “Rory Stewart Testifies on the Future of Afghanistan Before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee” Sep 16, http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistanDonnie)**
**The greatest risk …less will be more.**


No risk of any our your turns— there is no incentive to attack once we leave and terrorists will never get to the US—the plan is the only way to solve
Hornberger 09 **(Jacob, Founder and president of The Future of Freedom Foundation, 2/9, “Immediately Withdraw from Afghanistan Too”,<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-02-09.asp]]</span>)**
**“But the terrorists … terrorism in Afghanistan.**


No turns—US presence ONLY destabilizes the region—the Taliban won’t host al-Qaeda anyway
Innocent 09 **Foreign Policy Analyst at Cato,’09 (Malou Innocent, “Afghanistan = Bottomless Pit of Massive Social Engineering”, 9/2/09, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/02/afghanistan-bottomless-pit-of-massive-social-engineering**


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CT is crucial to decentralization efforts—allows us to get local allies and wins the war, this ev also proves all of their de facto partion cp’s are not competitive </span>
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Long 10</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Austin Long is an assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs. He presented this paper at FPRI in December 2009 as part of The Hertog Programon Grand Strategy, which is jointly sponsored by Temple University’s Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy and FPRI. “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan” [[http://spi.typepad.com/files/long---orbis---spring-2010.pdf/Donnie|http://spi.typepad.com/files/long---orbis---spring-2010.pdf//Donnie]]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the strategic goal... and local allies</span>**



==**COIN 1AC (New Trier, UMICH)**== 



Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence assigned to the counterinsurgency mission in Afghanistan.


Contention one is inherency


The US is going to stay in Afghanistan past 2011—Petraeus wants to stay and Obama will follow
Rothschild 8/16/10 **(Matthew, editor in chief- Progressive Magazine, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; cursor: pointer;">[[http://www.progressive.org/wx081610.html]]</span>)**
**General David Petraeus … again next July.**


Contention two is Stability


COIN is doomed to failure—it will only cause instability in the short term, ending it is the only way to maintain stability
Hadar 10 **(Leon T. Hadar, is a research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia. “What Happens If U.S. Troops Leave Afghanistan? Not the End of the World As We Know It” July, 28.http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011Donnie+Margaret)**
**The arm-chair strategists…north of Afghanistan.**


Presence is the problem—Afghanis only are siding with al-Qaeda because they resent presence --ending COIN is the only solution to solving resentment and attempts at centralization —not any of your surge cp’s
Rosen 10 **(Nir, a journalist who has written extensively on American policy toward Afghanistan and Iraq.**
**Something from Nothing U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan http://bostonreview.net/BR35.1/rosen.phpDonnie**
**In Afghanistan, there…the Arab extremist volunteers.**


Centralization causes ethnic conflicts, causes violence in the region
Cheragh**, March 2nd 20**09, **“Afghan paper highlights need for decentralization of power”, BBC News, Lexis-Nexis**
**The effort for …get more vulnerable.**


Afghanistan instability is causing Pakistan instability—radicalizes and militarizes politics
Coll 9 **(Steve, is president of New America Foundation, and a staff writer at The New Yorker magazine. Previously he spent 20 years as a foreign correspondent and senior editor at The Washington Post, serving as the paper's managing editor from 1998 to 2004 “Afghanistan's Impact on Pakistan” Oct. 1 http://www.newamerica.net/publications/resources/2009/afghanistans_impact_on_pakistanDonnie)**
**It seems useful …the country's population**
**.**

Pakistan instability causes India to launch a pre-emptive nuclear strike on Pakistan
Ricks 2001 **[Thomas Ricks is the author of Fiasco: The American Military Adventure in Iraq, 2003-05, which was a no. 1 New York Times bestseller and a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2007. He is special military correspondent for The Washington Post, senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a contributing editor for Foreign Policy magazine. Washington Post – October 21, 2001 – http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer]**
**The prospect of …on strategic games.**


Indo pak war escalates and goes full on—smoke yields cause extinction and turn your impacts
Robock and Toon 10 **[Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years.. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado.[1] He received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 20 10 Scientific American Magazine – http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war]**
**Nuclear bombs dropped …in the tropics.**



Our claim is reverse causal—decentralization is key to stability
Goodson<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">, 2003</span>
**[Larry, professor of Middle East Studies at the U.S. Army War College, January, “Afghanistan’s Long Road to Reconstruction,” Journal of Democracy Volume 14, Number 1, Project Muse]**

<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="underline">A third problem is the resurgence of the warlords…</span><span style="color: black;"> where it is most needed.</span>**


</span>
Contention two is hegemony



First, COIN will fail, not enough troops, government illegitimacy, Taliban funding, no public support and no understanding will guarantee it—only the plans small foot print strategy solves
Nelson 9 **(Rick,former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin)**
**Q1: General McChrystal is…” approach would entail.**


We will isolate three internal links to heg--


First, Mission failure COIN alienates locals witch makes losing inevitable—kills morale and signals weakness collapsing heg—the plans small foot print strategy makes presence sustainable and solves all their turns
Kuhner, 9 **(Jeffrey, the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic)**
**America is losing …arms of extremists.**


Second is overreach, COIN is causing imperial overstretch due to high demand for tons of troops—makes heg decline inevitable
Pyne, 9 **- Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “**
**Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/)**
**Since we invaded Iraq … Georgia this past year.**


Third is expenses--COIN forces the US to stay in Afghanistan for at least another decade—causes high deficits
Dreyfuss 10 **(Robert Dreyfuss Obama, Petraeus, and the Cult of COIN in Afghanistan is the author of Devil's Game: How the United States Helped Unleash Fundamentalist Islam (Henry Holt/Metropolitan Books, 2005). An independent journalist based in Alexandria, Virginia, Dreyfuss covers national security for Rolling Stone, has written extensively on Iraq and the war on terrorism for The Nation, The American Prospect, and Mother Jones. He has appeared on NPR, MSNBC, CNBC, and many other broadcast outlets, and wrote the blog "The Dreyfuss Report" for TomPaine.com, which now appears on his web site, www.robertdreyfuss.com. jun 28 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/bob-dreyfuss/obama-petraeus-and-the-cu_b_628122.htmlDonnie)**
**Still, it’s worrying… fewer, next year.**


High deficits obliterate heg—the USSR proves spending billions in Afghanistan for a sustained period collapses heg
**Tom** Engelhard**t is the author of The End of Victory Culture, a history of American triumphalism in the Cold War era. He is a consulting editor for Metropolitan Books, a fellow of the Nation Institute, and a teaching fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. “Whistling Past the Afghan Graveyard Where Empires Go to Die” February 5, 20**09**. Available at: http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175030/the_empire_v_the_graveyard**
**Back in 1979, National … burials, not resurrections.**


Heg solves war, proliferation and creates a bandwagoning effect, it is also sustainable
Thayer 2006 **(Bradley, associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University, In Defense of Primacy, The National Interest, November 1, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; cursor: pointer;">[[http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+defense+of+primacy-a0155089106|http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+def...cy-a0155089106]]</span>)**
**U.S. primacy--and … of the United States.**




US hegemony is sustainable- lack of viable and willing challenges, allies, and controll of the international system guarantee future U.S. primacy
Hirsh 9/12/10 //**[Michael, international affairs reporter for newsweek, winner of the 2004 national magazine award for general excellence. we're no. 11!, htt:**//www.newsweek.com/2010/08/12/how-to-understand-american-decline.html**//MSTRONG]//**




Contention four is solvency


Small foot print strategy is best—it preserves stability in Afghanistan and prevents total withdrawal, which would makes all their turns inevitable
Blackwill 10 **(Robert D. Blackwill served as U.S. ambassador to India, deputy national security advisor for strategic planning and presidential envoy to Iraq in the George W. Bush administration International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs "A De Facto Partition for Afghanistan" July 7. http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/20240/de_facto_partition_for_afghanistan.html?breadcrumb=%25Donnie)**
**The Obama administration's …future of Iraq**


Phased withdrawal solves all of their turns—we need to maintain a limited CT strategy like the plan to win the war
Stewart 9 **(Rory Stewart, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro. From 2000 to 2002 he walked 6,000 miles on foot from Turkey to Bangladesh “Rory Stewart Testifies on the Future of Afghanistan Before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee” Sep 16, http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistanDonnie)**
**The greatest risk …less will be more.**


No risk of any our your turns— there is no incentive to attack once we leave and terrorists will never get to the US—the plan is the only way to solve
Hornberger 09 **(Jacob, Founder and president of The Future of Freedom Foundation, 2/9, “Immediately Withdraw from Afghanistan Too”,<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; cursor: pointer;">[[http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-02-09.asp]]</span>)**
**“But the terrorists … terrorism in Afghanistan.**


No turns—US presence ONLY destabilizes the region—the Taliban won’t host al-Qaeda anyway
Innocent 09 **Foreign Policy Analyst at Cato,’09 (Malou Innocent, “Afghanistan = Bottomless Pit of Massive Social Engineering”, 9/2/09, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/02/afghanistan-bottomless-pit-of-massive-social-engineering)**




==<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**COIN 1AC (Greenhill RR, Greenhill, Valley)**</span>== 



<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence assigned to the counterinsurgency mission in Afghanistan.**


**Contention one is inherency**


**The US is going to stay in Afghanistan past 2011—Petraeus wants to stay and Obama will follow**</span>
Rothschild 8/16/10 **(Matthew, editor in chief- Progressive Magazine, [[http://www.progressive.org/wx081610.html]])**

**General David Petraeus … again next July.**


**Contention two is Stability**


**COIN is doomed to failure—it will only cause instability in the short term, ending it is the only way to maintain stability**
Hadar 10 **(Leon T. Hadar, is a research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia. “What Happens If U.S. Troops Leave Afghanistan? Not the End of the World As We Know It” July, 28.http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011Donnie+Margaret)**
**The arm-chair strategists…north of Afghanistan.**


**Presence is the problem—Afghanis only are siding with al-Qaeda because they resent presence --ending COIN is the only solution to solving resentment and attempts at centralization —not any of your surge cp’s**
Rosen 10 **(Nir, a journalist who has written extensively on American policy toward Afghanistan and Iraq.**
**Something from Nothing U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan http://bostonreview.net/BR35.1/rosen.phpDonnie**
**In Afghanistan, there…the Arab extremist volunteers.**


**Centralization causes ethnic conflicts, causes violence in the region**
Cheragh**, March 2nd 20**09, **“Afghan paper highlights need for decentralization of power”, BBC News, Lexis-Nexis**
**The effort for …get more vulnerable.**


**Afghanistan instability is causing Pakistan instability—radicalizes and militarizes politics**
Coll 9 **(Steve, is president of New America Foundation, and a staff writer at The New Yorker magazine. Previously he spent 20 years as a foreign correspondent and senior editor at The Washington Post, serving as the paper's managing editor from 1998 to 2004 “Afghanistan's Impact on Pakistan” Oct. 1 http://www.newamerica.net/publications/resources/2009/afghanistans_impact_on_pakistanDonnie)**
**It seems useful …the country's population**
**.**

**Pakistan instability causes India to launch a pre-emptive nuclear strike on Pakistan**
Ricks 2001 **[Thomas Ricks is the author of Fiasco: The American Military Adventure in Iraq, 2003-05, which was a no. 1 New York Times bestseller and a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2007. He is special military correspondent for The Washington Post, senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a contributing editor for Foreign Policy magazine. Washington Post – October 21, 2001 – http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer]**
**The prospect of …on strategic games.**


**Indo pak war escalates and goes full on—smoke yields cause extinction and turn your impacts**
Robock and Toon 10 **[Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years.. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado.[1] He received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 20 10 Scientific American Magazine – http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war]**
**Nuclear bombs dropped …in the tropics.**


**Contention two is hegemony**


**First, COIN will fail, not enough troops, government illegitimacy, Taliban funding, no public support and no understanding will guarantee it—only the plans small foot print strategy solves**
Nelson 9 **(Rick,former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin)**
**Q1: General McChrystal is…” approach would entail.**


**We will isolate three internal links to heg--**


**First, Mission failure COIN alienates locals witch makes losing inevitable—kills morale and signals weakness collapsing heg—the plans small foot print strategy makes presence sustainable and solves all their turns**
Kuhner, 9 **(Jeffrey, the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic)**
**America is losing …arms of extremists.**


**Second is overreach, COIN is causing imperial overstretch due to high demand for tons of troops—makes heg decline inevitable**
Pyne, 9 **- Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “**
**Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/)**
**Since we invaded Iraq … Georgia this past year.**


**Third is expenses--COIN forces the US to stay in Afghanistan for at least another decade—causes high deficits**
Dreyfuss 10 **(Robert Dreyfuss Obama, Petraeus, and the Cult of COIN in Afghanistan is the author of Devil's Game: How the United States Helped Unleash Fundamentalist Islam (Henry Holt/Metropolitan Books, 2005). An independent journalist based in Alexandria, Virginia, Dreyfuss covers national security for Rolling Stone, has written extensively on Iraq and the war on terrorism for The Nation, The American Prospect, and Mother Jones. He has appeared on NPR, MSNBC, CNBC, and many other broadcast outlets, and wrote the blog "The Dreyfuss Report" for TomPaine.com, which now appears on his web site, www.robertdreyfuss.com. jun 28 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/bob-dreyfuss/obama-petraeus-and-the-cu_b_628122.htmlDonnie)**
**Still, it’s worrying… fewer, next year.**


**High deficits obliterate heg—the USSR proves spending billions in Afghanistan for a sustained period collapses heg**
**Tom** Engelhard**t is the author of The End of Victory Culture, a history of American triumphalism in the Cold War era. He is a consulting editor for Metropolitan Books, a fellow of the Nation Institute, and a teaching fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. “Whistling Past the Afghan Graveyard Where Empires Go to Die” February 5, 20**09**. Available at: http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175030/the_empire_v_the_graveyard**
**Back in 1979, National … burials, not resurrections.**


**Heg solves war, proliferation and creates a bandwagoning effect, it is also sustainable**
Thayer 2006 **(Bradley, associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University, In Defense of Primacy, The National Interest, November 1, [[http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+defense+of+primacy-a0155089106|http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+def...cy-a0155089106]])**
**U.S. primacy--and … of the United States.**



**Contention four is solvency**


**Small foot print strategy is best—it preserves stability in Afghanistan and prevents total withdrawal, which would makes all their turns inevitable**
Blackwill 10 **(Robert D. Blackwill served as U.S. ambassador to India, deputy national security advisor for strategic planning and presidential envoy to Iraq in the George W. Bush administration International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs "A De Facto Partition for Afghanistan" July 7. http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/20240/de_facto_partition_for_afghanistan.html?breadcrumb=%25Donnie)**
**The Obama administration's …future of Iraq**


**Immediacy is key –it prevents total withdrawal and preserves US heg and stability—every second we stay and fail with COIN the US looks weaker and the Taliban looks stronger**
Blackwill 1**0 (Robert D. Blackwill served as U.S. ambassador to India, deputy national security advisor for strategic planning and presidential envoy to Iraq in the George W. Bush administration International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs"A De Facto Partition for Afghanistan" July 7. http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/20240/de_facto_partition_for_afghanistan.html?breadcrumb=%25Donnie)**
**But even with …out of Afghanistan.**


**Phased withdrawal solves all of their turns—we need to maintain a limited CT strategy like the plan to win the war**
Stewart 9 **(Rory Stewart, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro. From 2000 to 2002 he walked 6,000 miles on foot from Turkey to Bangladesh “Rory Stewart Testifies on the Future of Afghanistan Before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee” Sep 16, http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistanDonnie)**
**The greatest risk …less will be more.**


**No risk of any our your turns— there is no incentive to attack once we leave and terrorists will never get to the US—the plan is the only way to solve**
Hornberger 09 **(Jacob, Founder and president of The Future of Freedom Foundation, 2/9, “Immediately Withdraw from Afghanistan Too”, [[http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-02-09.asp]])**
**“But the terrorists … terrorism in Afghanistan.**


**No turns—US presence ONLY destabilizes the region—the Taliban won’t host al-Qaeda anyway**
Innocent 09 **Foreign Policy Analyst at Cato,’09 (Malou Innocent, “Afghanistan = Bottomless Pit of Massive Social Engineering”, 9/2/09, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/02/afghanistan-bottomless-pit-of-massive-social-engineering)**
**Obsidian Wings echoes … in moralistic values.**



==<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**2AC: Add-Ons**</span>== 



===<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Russia Relations Add-On- Greenhill RR**</span>=== 




<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**U.S. presence in the region jeopardizes our relations with Russia**</span>
Kuhrt, ’10 **(Natasha, Lecturer at the Department of War Studies, Kings College, London. She is the author of Russian Policy Towards China and Japan: The El’tsin and Putin Periods (London and New York: Routledge, 2007), and is currently working on a book on Russian foreign policy for Polity Press, “Afghanistan’s Significance for Russia: Regional or Global Strategy?” 6/8/10, Russian Analytical Digest)**

**As it has … sponsored by Russia.**



===<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Pak. Arms Sharing Add-On- Greenhill RR**</span>=== 




<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**COIN is causing the US to give nuclear power to Pakistan to try to get support for the stratagey—causes Indo/Pak arms race and causes nuclear world war III**</span>
Mull 10 **(Josh, is a Afghanistan Blogging Fellow, Brave New Foundation/The Seminal Citizen Journalist “[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/josh-mull/crazy-coin-strategy-us-pa_b_620210.html|Crazy COIN Strategy: US-Pakistani Nuclear Deal]]” 6/21. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/josh-mull/crazy-coin-strategy-us-pa_b_620210.htmlDonnie )**

**Our strategy in Afghanistan is pretty bad... Yes, it's really that bad.**

===EU Add-On- Blake=== 

==<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>== 
===<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>=== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>
===<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>=== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>
=== === 
=== === 
=== === 
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;"> </span><span style="color: black; display: block; text-decoration: none;"> </span>
=<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>= 
== == 


**The Plan is key to US-EU relations**
Hulsman and Korteweg 9/20 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Dr. John Hulsman is President and Co-Founder of John C. Hulsman Enterprises (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[mailto:info@john-hulsman.com|info@john-hulsman.com]]</span>), a successful international relations consulting firm. He is also Senior Research Fellow at The Hague Centre for Strategic Studies Rem Korteweg, an expert on geostrategy and geopolitics, is a Policy Analyst at the Hague Centre. “Post-election Afghanistan: a new counterterrorism strategy and its meaning for Europe” 2010. </span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.aspeninstitute.it/aspenia-online/article/post-election-afghanistan-new-counterterrorism-strategy-and-its-meaning-europe</span>//Donnie) 
At first sight, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">a counterterrorist … an approach would underline.</span>

**Relations solve terror, world Economy, Trade, Democracy, Poverty, human rights, and Peace.**
Europa 11/20 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Delegation of European Union and the United States of America, US-EU Relations, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.eurunion.org/eu/index.php?option=com_content&task=category&sectionid=7&id=29&Itemid=59]]</span> </span>//STRONG]//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt; margin-left: 0in;">As the two … domestic security.</span>//






==<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**2AC T:**</span>== 

===<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Combat Troops- Greenhill RR**</span>=== 





<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Counter-interpretation “Presence” is only military aid, combat operations, and bases**</span>
American Observer 09 **– quoting DOD Reports – “US military presence in foreign countries exceeds rest of world” – November 10, 2009 – http://inews6.americanobserver.net/articles/us-military-presence-foreign-countries-exceeds-rest-world**

**The United States … in combat theaters.**


**There is no distinction between combat and non-combat troops in Afghanistan OR Iraq—that puts them in a double bind-either we meet or they limit out 2/3 of the topic killing aff ground and going against the framers intent**
Gipson 05 **[Heather S. Ingrum Gipson, J.D. Candidate, University of Missouri-Kansas City, Winter 2005, UMKC Law Review, 74 UMKC L. Rev. 383, Lexis Academic]**
**n136 Ann Scott Tyson, Bid … and non-combat positions. Id.**



**In your authors foot notes he gives a case list and clarifies what he means by “not limited to” public shows military musical groups; staff-to-staff talks and studies with foreign military organizations and analytical groups are all T aff’s. They ruin aff ground and this turns their limits standard**
Thomason 02 **James Thomason – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, 2002 http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf This is generally consistent, …exchanges of military**



==**2AC: CASE**== 

===**Heg Sustainable**=== 
**US hegemony is sustainable- lack of viable and willing challenges, allies, and controll of the international system guarantee future U.S. primacy**


**Hirsh 9/12/10 [Michael, international affairs reporter for newsweek, winner of the 2004 national magazine award for general excellence. we're no. 11!, htt:**www.newsweek.com/2010/08/12/how-to-understand-american-decline.html**//MSTRONG]//**


===**Heg Good**=== 
US withdrawal would start a power vacuum that leads to terrorism, economic turmoil, and war.

Ferguson 04 **[Niall Ferguson july/augusr 2004, "A World Without Power", FOREIGN POLICY ISSUE 143]**



===[[#_Toc271483283]][[#_Toc271220554]][[#_Toc271074502]][[#_Toc271074149]][[#_Toc271066414]][[#_Toc270468453]][[#_Toc270467785]][[#_Toc270467699]]=== 
Drones are expanding now makes your turn non unique

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Drew 10</span></span>**, (02/19/2010, The New York Times, Christopher Drew, “ Drones Are Playing A Growing Role in Afghanistan” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/02/20/world/asia/20drones.html)**
**When American and … and anti-Americanism.**


===**LOSING THE WAR**=== 




====[[#_Toc277861630]]==== 


<span class="cite">Time is not a factor- the situation is only deteriorating and waiting will only make it worse.</span>
Collier 10/8 //**<span style="font-weight: normal;">[Paul, Professor of Economics, Afghanistan Surge failing- how Obama is losing the Afghan War- World News </span>[[http://freedomist.com/2010/10/08/afghanistan-surge-failing-how-obama-is-losing-the-afghan-war-world-news/]]**// STRONG] 
“<span class="underline">All We Need Is Time</span>.”<span class="underline">Wrong… just to hold ground.</span>




====[[#_Toc277861631]]==== 
<span class="cite">COIN operations get false intel and breed resentment- only a shift to counter-terror can stop the status quo rise of the Taliban. </span>


Thacker 11/5 **<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">[Jada, Ed.D, author of Dissecting American History: A Theme-Based Narrative. He teaches U.S. History and Political Science at a private educational institution in Texas. November 5, 2010; “Losing Hearts and Minds – a Report from Afghanistan.” </span>[[http://www.consortiumnews.com/2010/110510c.html]]** //**STRONG]**//
//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">One such report comes … whether American or Afghan?</span>**//



==<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**2AC: DAs**</span>== 

===<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dems Bad Midterms Link Turns- Greenhill RR**</span>=== 





<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Flip flops disastrous in midterms.**</span>
Creamer, 4-1-10 **[Robert, Political Organizer and Commentator at Huffington Post, “Ten Rules for Democratic Success in Midterm Elections,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-creamer/ten-rules-for-democratic_b_521574.html]**

**Rule #7: No flip-flops. … and stand up for them.**


**Afghanistan not perceived - will not have an effect on the Congressional elections.**
Zelizer, 10 **- Professor of History and Public Affairs at Princeton University, one of the leading figures in the field of American political history, the author and editor of numerous books that examine U.S. political leaders, policies, and institutions since the New Deal (Julian E., June 28, “How Afghanistan became the ignored war” [[http://www.cnn.com/2010/OPINION/06/28/zelizer.afghanistan.ignored.war/]])**
**If the Korean War, … that Democrats are weak on defense.**



**Withdrawal alienates all constituencies and republicans will aggressively use the plan to make dems look weak on defense**
Biddle 09 **Stephen Biddle, Senior Fellow for Defense Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, July-August 2009, “Is It Worth It? The Difficult Case for War in Afghanistan,” The American Interest Online, http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=617**
**However, reversing policy … with nightmarish imagery.**



===<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Obama Good Link Turns- Greenhill**</span>=== 


**Withdrawal from Afghanistan is bipartisan**

<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">**Innocent <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">20</span>10 <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">[Malou,</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-weight: normal;">**is a foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute, “Leaving Afghanistan moves beyond left vs. right” – Politico – March 10th – – http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0310/34158.html]**</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">**The resolution’s substance …<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">war to a close.</span>**</span>
Withdrawal from Afghanistan is popular. Democrats are growing weary of it


<span style="display: block; font-size: 90%;">**Barone 10**</span>
**[Senior political analyst for the Washington Examiner, 7/20/10 , Boston Herald, http://www.bostonherald.com/news/opinion/op_ed/view.bg?articleid=1269033&srvc=rss]**

<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in;">**A year ago, … it can be self-defeating.**

</span>
===**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">2AC: Obama Bad Link Turns</span>**=== 


Flip-flop on Afghanistan to pull out will destroy Obama’s agenda
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Biddle 9</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> –</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Roger Hertog Senior Fellow for Defense Policy</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, (Stephen, “</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Is It Worth It? The Difficult Case for War in Afghanistan,” The American Interest, July-August, http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=617)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">reversing policy …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with nightmarish imagery</span></span>**


Flip flops destroy political capital
Fits 96 **(Professor of Law at University of Pennsylvania Law School, January 19<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">96</span></span>, “The Paradox of Power in the Modern State,” University of Pennsylvania Law Review, p.857)**

**Centralized and visible …<span class="underline"> and ultimate weakness</span>.**


Massive GOP backlash to reductions in Afghanistan presence
Congressional Quarterly Politics, ’10 **[CQ Politics News, “GOP Criticizes Withdrawal Plan as Undermining Afghanistan Efforts,” 6/16/10, http://www.cqpolitics.com/wmspage.cfm?docID=cqmidday-000003684343, accessed 6/21/10]**
**<span class="underline">Senate Republicans</span> on … conditions on the ground.**



===[[#_Toc271483253]][[#_Toc271220527]][[#_Toc271074472]][[#_Toc271074119]][[#_Toc271066384]][[#_Toc144809298]]=== 
**1. Non-unique: relations low now-US and Israel drifting apart**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">James </span><span class="cite">Besser</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> on Mon, 6/28/</span><span class="cite">2010</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - 11:47 James Besser is a respected Washington correspondent for NY Jewish Week whose reports appear in many other Jewish media outlets as well. http://www.thejewishweek.com/blogs/political_insider/israeli_ambassador_michael_oen_us_and_israel_drifting_apart </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What to make out … allies are ever in total agreement on every issue?</span>**

**US-Israel relations are resilient-they’ve stood the test of time**
**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Aaron David </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Miller</span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, public policy scholar at the Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars and former adviser to six secretaries of state on Arab-Israeli negotiations, June </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">2010</span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, “Obama, Israel & American Jews: The Challenge—A Symposium,” http://www.commentarymagazine.com/viewarticle.cfm/obama--israel---american-jews--the-challenge-a-symposium-15449?page=all </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It’s true that the …</span><span class="underline">United States</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> together.</span>**

**Israel will defer to the US-assurances of support stop break**
**Ron <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kampeas</span></span>, JTA News Analyst, 6-1-<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span>, <span style="font-size: 9pt;">“Obama and Netanyahu: a few unfortunate incidents, or a clash of worldviews?,” http://jta.org/news/article/2010/06/01/2739401/obama-and-netanyahu-a-few-unfortunate-incidents-or-a-clash-of-world-views</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The question for Netanyahu's…</span><span class="underline">unwavering U.S. support.</span>**




===**A2 CMR DA**=== 
**1. Civil-military tensions are inevitable**

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sewall and White 2009</span></span> (Sarah and John, The boston globe, 1-29, The civil military challenge, lexis)**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One finding is </span><span class="underline">that senior …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">involvement in partisan activity.</span>**

**2. Civil-military tensions has no impact- McChrystal proves**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feaver 2010</span></span> (Peter, writer for Foreign Policy, 6/30, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/30/tom_ricks_gets_the_mcchrystal_affair_mostly_rightbut_not_entirely)**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now I … at 4-star pay.</span>**

**3. CMR is resilient-one instance won’t destroy it**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hooker 2003</span></span> (Richard National War College Army Staff, Winter, “Soldiers of the State,” Parameters,**
**http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0IBR/is_4_33/ai_111852934/print)**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In American academe today …</span><span class="underline">the common defense.</span>**





==**2AC: CPs**== 


===AT: Jirga=== 
**Past Jirga’s have failed before there is no reason why this particular Jirga would work.**

**More ev, Jirgas are empirically unsuccessful**
Wadhams, 6/4 **-- Director for South Asia Security Studies at the Center for American Progress (2010, Caroline, Foreign Policy, “Afghanistan’s Fluffy Peace Jirga,” <span style="color: black;">http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/04/afghanistans_fluffy_peace_jirga</span>)**
**__With just …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">policy and practice.</span>**




===**AT Silk Road CP**=== 


The Silk Road fails--- stability and uncooperative states
Tellis, 10 **is a senior associate in Carnegie’s South Asia Program (2010, Ashley, Carnegie Endowment for Peace, “**IMPLEMENTING A REGIONAL APPROACH TO AFGHANISTAN,” **[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/regional_approach.pdf]])**
**The first is … __integration imagine it should.__**

Pakistan prevents a successful trade route
Tellis, 10 **is a senior associate in Carnegie’s South Asia Program (2010, Ashley, Carnegie Endowment for Peace, “**IMPLEMENTING A REGIONAL APPROACH TO AFGHANISTAN,” **[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/regional_approach.pdf]])**
**The discrepancy … __South Asian region.__**




===**Developmental assistance**=== 
Development assistance will have no effect on the war

<span style="color: black;">Dorronsoro,9 -</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (January 2009, Gilles, “Focus and Exit: An Alternative Strategy for the Afghan War,”</span> <span style="color: black;">http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_war-strategy.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>**
**<span class="Underline">Development is not …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and other actions.</span>**

Increasing development assistance fails
Leaver 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- research fellow with Foreign Policy In Focus (10/15/09, Erik, “Strategic Dialogue: Afghanistan,” FPIF, <span style="color: black;">http://www.fpif.org/articles/strategic_dialogue_afghanistan</span>)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, while …</span> __greater resentment across the board.__**




===**Consult NATO**=== 


**Lack of consultation won’t affect NATO effectiveness or relations**
**James <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kwok</span></span>, Harvard International Review Staff Writer, Summer <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2005</span></span>, Defining Power, Vol. 27(2), MENDING NATO: SUSTAINING THE TRANSATLANTIC RELATIONSHIP**
**<span class="underline">The greatest misperception … has not paralyzed NATO.</span>**

**NATO resilient**
**[[#_Toc271074411]][[#_Toc271074067]]<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Senior Research Fellow at the Foundation for Strategic Research and associate researcher the Center for International Studies and Research in France [Washington Quarterly, Spring]</span></span>**
**Overall, there are therefore…<span class="underline">multilateral alliance standing.</span>**




===**2AC A2 XO CP**=== 
**XOs can’t solve-they create confusion and can be overturned by the next president**

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooper 1997</span></span> [Phillip, Prof of Public Administration @ Portland State, Nov 97, “Power tools for an effective and responsible presidency” Administration and Society, Vol. 29, p. Proquest]**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even if one takes a …authority and effectiveness.</span>**




===**2AC A2 Courts CP**=== 


No solvency-courts move too slowly, are ignored during wartime, and the CP actually weakens the court
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pushaw 2004</span></span> (Robert J. Pushaw, editor of Yale Journal of International Law, professor of law, “Defending Deference: A Response to Professors Epstein and Wells,” 69 Missouri Law Review, 2004)
**<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Civil libertarians have urged … better part of valor.</span>**

No solvency–presidents will ignore rulings
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pushaw 2004</span></span> (Robert J. Pushaw, editor of Yale Journal of International Law, professor of law, “Defending Deference: A Response to Professors Epstein and Wells,” 69 Missouri Law Review, 2004)
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, </span><span class="underline">such …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">shoulder full responsibility.</span>**




===**Change/Stop COIN but Stay…**=== 


Turn- High troop levels destabilize Pakistan and motivates terrorism

**[Doug <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow</span></span>, November 22, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span></span>, Doug Bandow is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute. He is a former special assistant to President Reagan, “Limits of US Power in Afghanistan”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11000]**

**<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">Afghanistan's importance primarily … plots from Europe.</span>**


<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">High troop levels spark insurgency, CT is the most logical step for Afghanistan</span>

**[Benjamin H. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedman</span></span> is a research fellow in defense and homeland security studies at the Cato Institute and a PhD candidate in political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, April 3, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span></span>, “Don't 'Pull an Iraq' in Afghanistan”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=9314** STRONG]

This week at a NATO …<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> We should aim for one that meets US needs.</span></span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tribal Violence and Instability is the stable environment of Afghanistan – large troop presence causes more terrorism, dangerous instability – and force insurgents into Pakistan causes them to unite and destabilize Pakistan </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Innocent and Carpenter 9</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Malou Innocent is a foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan and Ted Galen Carpenter </span>**is **vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato, Cato Institute 2009 [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf]]** //**AnthonyOgbuli)**//

//__Myth #2: America’s Presence …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the United States.</span>**//





//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Surge and tactic shifts counterplans won’t solve – willful insurgency and government corruption guts solvency – COIN requires a mutli-decade long commitment where costs outweigh the gains</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Innocent and Carpenter 9</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Malou Innocent is a foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan and Ted Galen Carpenter </span>**is **vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato, Cato Institute 2009 [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf]]**// AnthonyOgbuli)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In March 2009 the …</span> __mission to a close.__


===**__Withdraw 1/3 Europe__**=== 


**The CP kills heg, US-EU relations, and the NATO alliance, and causes prolif**
**McNamara 2010** [Sally, a Senior Policy Analyst in European Affairs at The Heritage Foundation Formerly the Director of International Relations for the American Legislative Exchange Council holds an honors degree in politics from Loughborough University; Heritage Foundation, Do Not Undermine the U.S.-European Military Relationship; September 9 2010;
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/09/do-not-undermine-the-us-european-military-relationship]]</span> STRONG]
The Sustainable Defense …Obama’s nonproliferation goals.

**Relations solve terror, world Economy, Trade, Democracy, Poverty, human rights, and Peace.**
**Europa 11/20** [Delegation of European Union and the United States of America, US-EU Relations, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.eurunion.org/eu/index.php?option=com_content&task=category&sectionid=7&id=29&Itemid=59]]</span> //STRONG]//
//As the two … domestic security.//


===That huge plank that people read different variations of...=== 

**Large foot presence still breads resentment because of cultural differences and because Afghanis don’t like troops engaging in their politics- that’s Rosen and Hader.**
**More ev-**
**Moselle 09** [Tyler, research assosiat at the Harvard kenedy school, “6 Fallacies of a Surge in Afghanistan”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/cchrp/editorial/2009/SixFallacies_Moselle.pdf]]</span>]
Assertion 1: A Surge in Afghanistan ,,,the Soviet invasion).

**the surge only makes expenses worse- wars cost money and staying in Afghanistan for extended periods run up th deficit and drowns the US in debt—only a small foot print can solve—that’s dryfuss and Englehardt. More ev-**
**Mulrine, 9** (Anna, “Obama to Confront Limits of America's Overstretched Military”, US News & World Report, 1/16, http://politics.usnews.com/news/world/articles/2009/01/16/obama-to-confront-limits-of-americas-overstretched-military.html)
This comes as little surprise … recruiting its forces.

**Engagement fails-enemy efforts, lack of communication, Afghan government, and public rejection.**
**TEW 10** [Tribal Engagement Workshop, Small Wars Journal, April 12, 2010 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://smallwarsjournal.com/events/tew/docs/TEW_Summary_Report_v1.pdf]]</span> STRONG]
There are four groups … advantage of free reources.

**Pakistan blocks the trade route**
**Tellis, 10** is a senior associate in Carnegie’s South Asia Program (2010, Ashley, Carnegie Endowment for Peace, “IMPLEMENTING A REGIONAL APPROACH TO AFGHANISTAN,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/regional_approach.pdf]]</span>)
The discrepancy between …South Asian region.

**Economic benefits don’t spill over to stability- the only chance of solving is to leave**
**Wadhams 10** [Caroline, expert on U.S. national security, terrorism, and the South Asian region, is the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[@http://www.americanprogress.org/experts/WadhamsCaroline.html|Director of South Asia Security Studies]]</span> at the<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[@http://www.americanprogress.org/|Center for American Progress]]</span>. She is currently in Afghanistan working as an election observer for <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[@http://www.democracyinternational.com/|Democracy International]]</span>. September 17th, 2010 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.pbs.org/wnet/wideangle/blog/op-ed-amid-broader-political-crisis-afghan-elections-will-resolve-little/6158/]]</span>/STRONG]
Despite … increased in 2010.

**Dependency and corruption gut solvency for training. It only strains funding and links to out Heg advantage.**
**Innocent and Carpenter 09** [Malou and Ted, foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,”<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf]]</span> //STRONG]//
//That means the …tribal and ethnic lines.//









==<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>== 
2AC: Ks 
==<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>== 




===<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>=== 
White Supremacy- Greenhill RR 
===<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>=== 






<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>
Framework: Neg must defend status quo or a government level policy option


Their exclusive focus on discourse is bad- trades off with working to solve violence and imperialism.
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>
Rotter 2k **(Orientalism and US diplomatic History, October Vol 105 No. 4)**

For diplomatic historians,... preeminently a discourse.


Justification for the war in Afghanistan is grounded in orientalism-- proves teh K is non-unique and it's try or die for the Aff

Kumar and Stabile 5
Unveiling imperialism... in rural regions.


Post modernism's rejection of Enlightenment ideasls has been inored the serious repercussions postmodern thought has on political action.

Wolin 04


This culminates in the blind acceptance of totalitarianism and intolerance in the name of anti-liberalism, turning the critique and functioning as an independent impact.

Wolin 04


Performace for political reasons only misdirects energy that could be used for actual political movements

Rotherberg and Valente 97






===<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>=== 
Cuomo- Greenhill 
===<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>=== 






<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>
Here is that reason—US operations in Afghanistan are making Afghanistan hell on Earth for civilians—our presence makes structural violence inevitable
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>
Jaffry ’10 **(Abdul-Majid, Retired Aircraft Engineer and Freelance Writer, “Afghanistan War -- A Saga of Lopsided Death and Destruction”, 5-26, http://www.uruknet.info/?p=66378)**

The frightening death … children of Afghanistan.


Their argument puts the cart before the horse—in order to pursue social justice; we must first ensure the absence of conflict.
Goldstein 200**1, Joshua S. Professor of International Relations at American University, (“Reflections: The Mutuality of Gender and War," War and Gender, Published by Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0521001803, p. 411-412)**
First, peace activists … be empirically inadequate. 10





=== === 
Hillman- Valley 
=== === 



We don’t need to embrace war in every instance as long as we don’t engage in pure pacifism. Our heg advantage is an example of this.

Cavarero 09 **[Adriana, Professor of Political Philosophy at the Università degli studi di Verona, Horrorism: Naming Contemporary Violence, p. 63-4**
//**STRONG]**//

//**At the start of the third millennium…**//
impedes comprehension of it
.
War isn’t natural- political leaders just frame it as such to justify it. Any evidence you present is correlation, not causation.


Stuhr 08 **[John, Arts and Sciences Distinguished Professor of Philosophy and American Studies, and Chair, Department of Philosophy, Emory University; “A Terrible Love of Hope,” The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, 22:4**
STRONG]
These and … the term, educational.





=== === 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">2AC: Security K</span>
=== === 
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Realism – </span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">It’s true and inevitable – a shift away collapses into chaos.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Mearsheimer 2001</span> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; line-height: 19px;">[professor of political science at University of Chicago, The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, pg. 361]</span>**
The optimists' claim that security …….states in each region at peace.


<span style="font-size: 110%;">It solves – </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Our plans use of realism is a prerequisite to the alternative- total rejection alienates the US and makes realism inevitable.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Guzzini 1998 </span>**<span style="font-size: 13px;">[Stefano, Assistant Professor at Central European Univ., Realism in International Relations and International Political Economy, p. 227]</span>**
<span style="margin: 0in;">Therefore, in a third step, this chapter also ………. always necessarily in the spirit, of realism<span class="underline">.</span></span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">It’s Good – </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">They’re wrong about realism- it’s key to reformism and not the securitized structure they portray.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Murray 1997 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12px;">[Alistair, professor of politics at the University of Wales, Reconstructing Realism: Between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics, netlibrary]</span>**
Finally, in Tickner's feminism, realism becomes all three simultaneously ……..reflectivism, of conservatism and progressivism, might be built.


<span style="font-size: 110%;">Threats are real and perceiving them is key to solving conflict- every impact should be weighed on an inaction VS. action basis.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Harvard Nuclear Study Group 83 </span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Living with Nuclear Weapons, p.16-7]</span></span>**
When President John F. Kennedy was shown ……….. in each course and decide on policy accordingly






=== === 
Cap- valley 
=== === 





<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;"> </span>
Perm – Do both – rejection of capitalism while doing the plan solves best - we should approach our policies through a parallax view - the alternative is just an excuse to do nothing, - even a co-opted permutation can spark a more radical success
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;"> </span>
Zizek, 04
(Slavoj, Ocean Rain, Liberation Hurts: An Interview With Slavoj Zizek, 7/01,


<span style="color: black; display: block; text-decoration: none;"> </span>
[[@http://www.electronicbookreview.com/V3/SERVLET/EBR?COMMAN=VIEW_ESSAY&ESSAY_ID=RASMUSSEN|http://WWW.ELECTRONICBOOKREVIEW.COM/...Y_ID=RASMUSSEN]]
<span style="color: black; display: block; text-decoration: none;"> </span>
)
Zizek: __I’m trying …a much more radical process.__


Capitalism is not the root cause of sexism, racism, inequality, environmental destruction, or conflict – their alternative authors oversimplify – prefer our specific harms and solvency claims


Levin 98
[Richard Levin, president of Yale, 1998, The Minnesota Review, 48-49, http://www.theminnesotareview.org/journal/ns48/levin.htm]
As a result of this view of the world…
with less lethal results
.






=<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>= 
Negative 
=<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>= 
==2NR Info== 

Here is a statistical breakdown of all of my 2NR's this year from the begining of the year up to blake.
Politics(Either START, Midterms, or China Bashing)-42.757%
Impact Turns(China war good once agaist St. Francis and North Korea war good agaist Kinkaid)-5.7%
Security kritik-2.75 %
Gender kritik-2.75%
COIN Good DA/New COIN CP-14%
JWTC PIC-2.75%
Framework-2.75%
SoKo Econ DA-2.75%
India Relations DA-2.75%
Courts CP-2.75%
Japan Prolif-8.37%
SoKo Prolif-8.37%



==Counterplans== 

===Counternarcotics CP(Read at Blake)=== 

====1NC==== 
The United States federal government should
-pressure NATO countries to increase their military presence in Afghanistan
-maintain 10,000 troops in Afghanistan
-assist Afghanistan in joining other countries in the production of legal opiates
-Increase aid to the Karzai government to 8 billion dollars a year
-refocus emphasis of the counternarcotics strategy away from eradication and more on resources
-focus more on a longer-term solution to the opium problem that emphasizes alternative livelihoods for Afghans who currently rely on the opium industry for income

Selling legal opiates solves-takes money away from the Taliban
Glaze 7 (John A. Glaze lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force, is Deputy Commander
of the 353rd Special Operations Group at Kadena Air Base, Japan “OPIUM AND AFGHANISTAN:REASSESSING U.s. COUNTERNARCOTICS STRATEGY” http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub804.pdfDonnie)
The United States …for some farmers.

Increasing presence solves—fosters necessary conditions for stability
Glaze 7 (John A. Glaze lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force, is Deputy Commander
of the 353rd Special Operations Group at Kadena Air Base, Japan “OPIUM AND AFGHANISTAN:REASSESSING U.s. COUNTERNARCOTICS STRATEGY” http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub804.pdf//Donnie)//
//The total number of …hazards of combat.//

//Assisting the Karzia government allows for stable eradication//
//Glaze 7 (John A. Glaze lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force, is Deputy Commander//
//of the 353rd Special Operations Group at Kadena Air Base, Japan “OPIUM AND AFGHANISTAN:REASSESSING U.s. COUNTERNARCOTICS STRATEGY” http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub804.pdf//Donnie)
The United States …and border security.

More focus on resources solves all their offence why counternartoctics is bad
Glaze 7 (John A. Glaze lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force, is Deputy Commander
of the 353rd Special Operations Group at Kadena Air Base, Japan “OPIUM AND AFGHANISTAN:REASSESSING U.s. COUNTERNARCOTICS STRATEGY” http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub804.pdf//Donnie)//
//The United States should …the counternarcotics strategy.//

//Supporting alternative livelihoods ends the incentive to buy nartotics//
//Glaze 7 (John A. Glaze lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force, is Deputy Commander//
//of the 353rd Special Operations Group at Kadena Air Base, Japan “OPIUM AND AFGHANISTAN:REASSESSING U.s. COUNTERNARCOTICS STRATEGY” http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub804.pdf//Donnie)
The United States should …up opium cultivation.



====2NC AT Perm==== 
They end CN we reform it—the perm is either severance or impossible—severance is a reason to reject the perm because it kills cp ground and plan focus. Even if it is, severance it wouldn’t solve cherry-picking approaching our strategy leads to no enforcement
Glaze 7 (John A. Glaze lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force, is Deputy Commander
of the 353rd Special Operations Group at Kadena Air Base, Japan “OPIUM AND AFGHANISTAN:REASSESSING U.s. COUNTERNARCOTICS STRATEGY” http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub804.pdf//Donnie)//
//The United States should …the total strategy.//

=== === 
Chaplains Neg--Umich RR 
=== === 
==== ==== 
Courts CP 1NC 
==== ==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States Supreme court should rule that the United States federal government must remove military chaplains serving in Iraq and Afghanistan on the grounds the violate the establishment clause of the constitution</span>**.**
We’ll Clarify.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CP solves the case and is the only way to avoid politics </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 6</span></span> (Christopher Hitchens is a columnist for Vanity Fair. His most recent book is Thomas Jefferson: Author of America. “Why do we have military chaplains?” http://lettrist.blogspot.com/2006/10/why-do-we-have-military-chaplins.html**//Donnie)//**
**Good for Lt. Col. Bateman, …and treated as such.**




====**Pltx Links**==== 



**Plan angers the right—drains capital**

//**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">NYT 6</span></span> (“Proposal on Military Chaplains and Prayer Holds Up Bill” http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/19/washington/19chaplains.html**//Donnie)
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The provision</span></span>, which …**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">to his God.” </span></span>**

Plan angers Christian lobbies
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">NYT 6</span></span> (“Proposal on Military Chaplains and Prayer Holds Up Bill” http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/19/washington/19chaplains.html**//Donnie)//**
**<span class="underline">The provision is …</span>military chaplaincy.**


**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">They are key</span></span>**
//**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thomas 10 (Pradip</span></span> Thomas is Assistant Professor in the School of Journalism and Communication at the University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia. http://www.choike.org/nuevo_eng/informes/3042.html**//Donnie)
The term Christian …example of such an alliance.*

Topicality
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. Interpretation—Military presence is bases, troops and US military aid </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">American Observer</span></span> – quoting DOD Reports – “US military presence in foreign countries exceeds rest of world” – November 10, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span></span> – http://inews6.americanobserver.net/articles/us-military-presence-foreign-countries-exceeds-rest-world
<span class="underline">The United States …in combat </span>theaters<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. Violation—chaplins are not part of the military—they aid the military </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Malin 3 </span></span>(Don Malin is the director of Watchman Fellowship's Mississippi office and also serves as a military chaplain. As this Update **goes to press, Don is being deployed to the Middle East. We would be glad to forward any correspondence to his military address. “Military Chaplains and Religious Pluralism”**
http://www.wfial.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=artGeneral.article_6**//Donnie//**
**The purpose of …equivalent educational certification**






=== === 
Okinawa CP--K version 
=== === 
<Text: The United States federal government should close the Futenma replacement facility. </-renegotiate the Status of Forces Agreement with Japan to convict US soldiers who commit sex crimes in Okinawa with Japanese courts, and to force the US to clean up any environmental damage they cause.-consolidate bases in Okinawa as described as per our Wilhelm evidence. <-ratify the Convention to Eliminate all forms of Discrimination Against Women. <
Solves the aff—SOFA is rc of the aff 
<sHUMAN RIGHTS COMMITTEE 8 (Review of Japan Alternative Report
By Asia-Japan Women’s Resource Center (AJWRC)1 on Discrimination and violence against women http://www2.ohchr.org/english/bodies/hrc/docs/ngos/AJWRCJapan94.pdf
As the above cases __…__**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">to prevent sexual violence.</span> </span>**
Renegotiations solves the environment impacts
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strait Times 9</span></span> (“Japan Wants US to Clean Up” http://www.straitstimes.com/Breaking%2BNews/Tech%2Band%2BScience/Story/STIStory_429568.html**//Donnie)//**
**<span class="underline">JAPAN incoming…</span>,' he said.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solves biopower but avoids our disad link</span>
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wilhelm 3</span></span> (LIEUTENANT COLONEL JOHN C. WIILHELM**
//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">UNITED STATES ARMY</span> “U. S. MILITARY FORWARD PRESENCE IN OKINAWA, JAPAN” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA415741**//Donnie)
This would start … on indefinitely.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CEDAW has empirical solvency-US ratification is crucial to strengthening womens rights movements globally</span> </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mendenhall 9/20</span></span> (Beth Mendenhall “Column: US government should ratify women’s rights treaty” http://uwire.com/2010/09/20/column-us-government-should-ratify-women%E2%80%99s-rights-treaty**///Donnie)//**
**<span class="underline">Sexism and gender… human rights violations.</span>**



=== === 
Okinawa CP--Jungle Warfare Training Center PIC—New Trier 
=== === 
Text: The United States federal government should remove all non-Jungle Warfare Training Center bases from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.




**The JWTC is key to Marine readiness and jungle war training**

**Lance Cpl. Tyler J**
**photographer and journalist specializing in the maries“Welcome (back) to the jungle Jungle Warfare Training Center up and running” June 22, 200**

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
7
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**. accessed July 31, 2010. http://www.okinawa.usmc.mil/Public%20Affairs%20Info/Archive%20News%20Pages/2007/070622-jungle.htmlDonnie**

**The Camp Gonsalves Jungle Warfare Training Center is back in business**
**. ………………….."**
**Marines need to maintain skills in all environment**
**s. "(**
**JWTC) also gives young NCOs and junior Marines a chance to lead and build confidence, because out on the course, whoever is willing to step up, is often in charge**
**," he added**

**Readiness solves war**
**Jack**




<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
Spencer
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**is a Research Fellow in Nuclear Energy Policy at The Heritage Foundation's Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies. “The Facts About Military Readiness” Sep. 15,**




<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
2k.
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**accessed July 31, 2010 http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2000/09/BG1394-The-Facts-About-Military-ReadinessDonnie**
**Military readiness is vital because declines in America's military readiness signal to the rest of the world that the U**
nited
**S**
**tates**
**is not prepared to defend its interests**
**…………………………..**
**. A high state of military readiness is more likely to deter potentially hostile nations from acting aggressively in regions of vital national interest, thereby preserving peace**
**.**








==== ==== 
AT: Environment Turn 
==== ==== 






<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
The JWTC has no environmental impacts—in fact it preserves the environment—there are no guns or vehicles there
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**Jonathan**




<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
Taylor
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**, Ph.D Assistant Professor Geography Department California State University, Fullert 20**




<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
02
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**accessed 2010 aug 2 http://www.uky.edu/~ppkaran/conference/Anti-Military%20and%20Environmental%20Movements%20in%20Okinawa.pdf)**
**On the opposite extreme .... only in this area**
**.4**







==== ==== 
Bio-D add on 
==== ==== 



<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
JWTC is key to capturing Mongoose and killing them in Okinawa


Peace 2006
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span>
(Lance Cpl. Warren, Okinawa Marine, “Controlling mongoose population key to preserving endangered species”, Apr 13, 2006, http://www.okinawa.usmc.mil/public%20affairs%20info/Archive%20News%20pages/2006/060413-mongoose.html, DA: 8/2/2010)
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">





</span>

<span style="color: black; display: block;"> </span>
A department of the
<span style="color: black; display: block;"> </span>
Okinawa Prefecture **…**Rail**," Gross said.**










<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
The JWTC is key to killing the mongoose which threatens Okinawa Rail, Local Turtles, and dozens of Species.
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">

</span>
**Pupkiewicz 2010(Lance Cpl. Stefanie C., okinawa marine staff, “JWTC keeps training mean, green”, Okinawa marine, Feb 5,2010, DA:8/2/10, HG)**






<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
I
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span><span style="color: black; display: block;"> </span>
n the northern most …experience, Percival said.
<span style="color: black; display: block;">







</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
Alien introductions such as the mongoose can destroy whole ecosystems
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">




</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;"> </span>
Otten 2001(
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;"> </span>
**Dr. Edward, he is Toxicology Editor of the Journal of Wilderness and Environmental Medicine and has an interest in the study of naturally occuring toxins and their use as potential pharmaceutical agents. He is interested in ecotypic variations and phenotypic plasticity in plants and their relationship to plant toxicity. Dr. Otten received his BA in Biology (Botany) from Kenyon College in 1973. He graduated from the University of Cincinati College of Medicine in 1977 and completed a residency in Emergency Medicine at the University of Cincinnati. He is board certified in Emergency Medicine and Toxicology., “The Effect of Human Population on Biodiversity”,2001, http://www.wms.org/biod/population/human_pop1.html,DA: 8/2/2010 )**
**Humans are the most … native animals and plants.**




**This risks extinction—there’s an invisible threshold.**
**David N.**




<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
Diner
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**, Major in the Judge Advocate General's Corps of the United States Army,**




<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
1994
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**(“The Army And The Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?,” Military Law Review (143 Mil. L. Rev. 161), Winter, Available Online via Lexis-Nexis)**




<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in;"> </span>
4. Biological Diversity. …<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">may be edging closer to the abyss</span></span>.
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in;">






</span>


=== === 
Okinawa CP—Consolidation—New Trier 
=== === 
Counterplan Text: The Department of Defense should consolidate its military bases in Okinawa Counterplan Solves - Full scale comprehensive fixes to the problems in Okinawa and seriously addresses the concerns of Okinawa and the US-Japan Alliance




**Withdrawal not key--consolidation solves--avoids our rearm disad**
**Eldridge 5**
**(Robert Ph.D. Director, U.S.-Japan Alliance Affairs Division Center for International Security Studies and Policy (CISSP), School of International Public Policy, Osaka University (OSIPP)) 05 (9/24, Toward a Viable, Comprehensive, Long-term Approach to the Okinawa Basing Issue and the True Strengthening of the Alliance, OSIPP, http://www2.osipp.osaka-u.ac.jp/~eldridge/)**
**__Today, full-scale surgery is necessary. ……………………….__Dividing the debate into two stages, reaching a decision between now and the Interim Report on the contents introduced in this proposal, followed by a second round looking at further options between the Interim Report and Final report, is likely to be a more realistic approach to a solution than the current rudderless discussions.**


**Futenma/Naha would be closed during consolidation—solves all your internals**
**Eldridge 5**






**(Robert Ph.D. Director, U.S.-Japan Alliance Affairs Division Center for International Security Studies and Policy (CISSP), School of International Public Policy, Osaka University (OSIPP)) 05 (9/24, Toward a Viable, Comprehensive, Long-term Approach to the Okinawa Basing Issue and the True Strengthening of the Alliance, OSIPP, http://www2.osipp.osaka-u.ac.jp/~eldridge/)**


**Through the reduction in bases and personnel, the negative impact on the surrounding communities can be reduce**
**d—the third pillar of my proposal. ……………….Similarly, because __the facilities, especially functions of Kinser, Naha Military Port, and the other bases would be combined or closer together, the intrusion on the local roads and related problems 12 with that (noise pollution, accidents, and general congestion) could be avoided__.**












=== === 
South Korea Counter Plan 
=== === 







<span style="display: block; font-style: normal;"> </span>
Text: The United States federal government should

-join the East Asian Summit

-offer to join the ASEAN, APT and APEC

-ensure the Comprehensive Economic Partnership in East Asia within the EAS is compatible with the Free Trade Area of the Asia Pacific within APEC
<span style="display: block; font-style: normal;"> </span>
-engage in joint anti-submarine and mine-clearing naval exercises with South Korea in the West Sea
-take the lead in imposing unilateral sanctions on foreign government, business and banking entities complicit in assisting North Korea’s nuclear, missile, and biological weapons programs and call other nations to follow suit.
-
resume enforcing international law against North Korean illegal activities, including counterfeiting of currency and pharmaceuticals, illegal production and distribution of narcotics, and money laundering


-close the loopholes in Resolution 1874, such as adding measures to enable military means to enforce the sanctions







<span style="display: block; font-style: normal;"> </span>
CP solves the regionalism advantage
<span style="display: block; font-style: normal;">


</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
Parameswaran 10
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">


</span>

<span style="display: block; font-style: normal;"> </span>
(Prashanth Parameswaran is a research assistant at the Project 2049 Institute, a Washington D.C.-based think tank …
<span style="display: block; font-style: normal;"> </span>
overlap or conflict.






<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
And, it’s the ONLY way to solve—the plan risks backlash and fails


Vogel 10
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">


</span>

<span style="display: block; font-style: normal;"> </span>
(Ezra Vogel is Henry Ford II Emeritus Professor of Social Sciences at Harvard University. “
<span style="display: block; font-style: normal;"> </span>
Regionalism in Asia: Why we should stick with existing structures” March 30. http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/03/30/regionalism-in-asia-why-we-should-stick-with-existing-structures**///Donnie)//**
**The**
regional organisations … the existing organisations.









=== === 
Afghanistan Surge Counter Plan 
=== === 


Text: The United States federal government should remove all timetables for withdrawal from Afghanistan. The United States federal government should maintain current troop levels in Afghanistan commit to the surge and follow through on the counterinsurgency strategy as outlined by General McChrystal. The United States federal government should substantially increase funds for advertising for people to join the military, entitlement bonuses and the number of military recruiters on duty. The United States federal government should offer pay raises and bonuses for those who reenlist for the military for additional tours. The United States federal government should offer educational incentives for those who join the military.

We’ll clarify. 
__for a dozen new Afghanistans.__
Increasing recruting incentives like the cp solves quickest



Kapp 2


<(Lawrence, 2/25/2002, “Recruiting and Retention in the Active Component Military: Are There Problems?” CRS, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.policyarchive.org/handle/10207/bitstreams/1356.pdf]]</span>, D.A. 7/26)


Historically< the first …is crucial here.
<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt;">






=== === 
1NC Bagram CP
=== === 
Text: In the next avaible test case, the United States Supreme Court should rule that the United States federal government must close the detention center located at Bagram Airbase by extending its decision //Boumediene v. Bush// to apply to Bargam air base. The United States Supreme Court should international law in its decision__.__




We’ll Claifiy.

Solves the aff—the Supreme court rulled that in Boumediene v. Bush that constitutional rights didn’t apply to base inhabitants earlier—we reverse that decision
MCCLATCHY 10 (Legal News service, "Court: Bagram prisoners don't have Guantanamo habeas rights" May 21, 2010. http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/05/21/94620/court-bagram-prisoners-dont-have.html**//Donnie)//**
**A key appellate court ...** __held in Bagram__


The plan doesn’t mean anything—I-law cannot be a ruled precedent try or die neg for the CP
Anderson 5 //**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Kenneth Anderson is a professor of international law at Washington College of Law, American University, Washington, D.C., and a visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution. He specializes in international law, human rights and the laws of war, as well as international business law, international development, and not-for-profit law. Before joining the American University law faculty, he was founding director of the Human Rights Watch Arms Division and later general counsel to the Open Society Institute/Soros Foundations Foreign Law and the U.S. Constitution http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/2932196.html</span>**//Donnie)
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">The problem with ...</span> __that is the problem.__**





==Plan A Minus CP== 
The United states federal government should phase out the counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan, withdrawing its military presence if Afghan Security forces ranks grow, the withdrawal should be a steady phase-out remaining in accordance with the 2014 agreement with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. We’ll Clarify.

The counterplan is functionally competitive—it solves the aff but avoids our CT bad disads
Riedel and O’Hanlon 11 (Bruce and Michael Michael O’Hanlon is a Senior Fellow and director of research at Brookings, coauthor with Hassina Sherjan of Toughing It Out in Afghanistan (Brookings Institution Press, 2010), and coauthor of Brookings’ Afghanistan Index. Bruce Riedel is a Fellow in the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings and author of The Search for Al Qaeda (Brookings Institution Press, 2008), and Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America and the Future of Global Jihad (Brookings Institution Press, 2011). In 2009, he chaired President Obama’s review of policy toward Afghanistan and Pakistan. “Plan A-Minus for Afghanistan” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2010/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel.pdf //Donnie)//
//The strategy in Afghanistan, as outlined by President Obama in his December 2009 West Point speech and earlier March 2009 policy review, still has a good chance to succeed.1 Described here as ‘‘Plan A,’’ it is a relatively comprehensive counterinsurgency strategy, albeit one with a geographic focus on about one-third of Afghanistan’s districts. Directed at defeating the insurgency or at least substantially weakening it, while building up Afghan institutions, it has reasonable prospects of achieving these goals well enough to hold together the Afghan state and prevent the establishment of major al Qaeda or other extremist sanctuaries on Afghan soil. Nevertheless, the strategy is not guaranteed to succeed, for reasons having little to do with its own flaws and more to do with the inherent challenge of the problem. Critics of the current strategy are right to begin a discussion of what a backup strategy, or a ‘‘Plan B,’’ might be. The most popular alternative to date emphasizes targeted counterterrorism operations, rather than comprehensive counterinsurgency_especially in the country’s Pashtun south and east where the insurgencies are strongest. It is difficult to describe this plan in detail, as its various proponents would each naturally counsel different specifics. But it seems fair to say that the most popular alternative would emphasize the use of drones and commandos in the entire Pashtun south and east of Afghanistan, confining any remaining counterinsurgency efforts to Kabul, other parts of the Shomali plain near the capital, and points north and west (that is, mostly beyond the Hindu Kush mountains).2 It can be called Fortress Kabul. The United States should have a debate over Plan B, but the above version is highly problematic. Its proponents are serious people motivated by serious considerations_they worry that the current war is not winnable, or at least that it is not winnable at costs commensurate with the strategic stakes they perceive in Afghanistan. Yet, it would be troubling if the U.S. debate in 2011 was forced to choose effectively between this kind of backup plan and the current robust counterinsurgency approach. Even more to the point, it is already highly troubling_ and counterproductive to U.S. interests and to NATO’s prospects on the battlefield_ that many around the world appear to perceive the Obama administration as already giving serious consideration to a backup strategy like Plan B. There is a better way if a fallback option is needed. Rather than conceding at least one-third of the country to extremists and reducingNATOforces quickly, the United States should tie its force drawdown to the growth and maturation of Afghan security forces. Under this plan, described here as ‘‘Plan A-,’’ U.S. and other foreign forces would have to keep fighting hard in Afghanistan for 2—4 more years, even as they gradually passed the baton to Afghan forces, but the United States would not need to stay in Afghanistan indefinitely, and would not tie its downsizing to the stabilization of all key terrain.//


//The plan leads to massive civil war and tanks US cred—leads to pakistan instability and inevitable defeat//
//Riedel and O’Hanlon 11 (Bruce and Michael Michael O’Hanlon is a Senior Fellow and director of research at Brookings, coauthor with Hassina Sherjan of Toughing It Out in Afghanistan (Brookings Institution Press, 2010), and coauthor of Brookings’ Afghanistan Index. Bruce Riedel is a Fellow in the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings and author of The Search for Al Qaeda (Brookings Institution Press, 2008), and Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America and the Future of Global Jihad (Brookings Institution Press, 2011). In 2009, he chaired President Obama’s review of policy toward Afghanistan and Pakistan. “Plan A-Minus for Afghanistan” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2010/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel.pdf// Donnie)
However, Plan B_focused on targeted counterterrorism operations_would likely amount to a soft partition of the country, with a Tajik-dominated rumpAfghanistan of perhaps 18—20 million people, and some 60—70 percent of the country’s land area, constituting the essence of the surviving state. Hazara, Uzbek, and Pashtun minorities would remain within the relatively safe zones, but most Pashtun areas and most of the 12—14 million Pashtuns living in contemporary Afghanistan would be on the outs_in a large swath of land effectively conceded to the Taliban (or to civil warfare) which would likely include most or all of the present-day provinces of Kandahar, Helmand, Zabul, Uruzgan, Nimroz, perhaps parts of Farah and Daykundi, and a few other central areas.6 As Bob Woodward’s book Obama’s Wars starkly underscores, critics of current U.S. strategy have several key sympathizers in the White House, and they may still have considerable influence with the president in ongoing and future policy debates about Afghanistan.7 Among other consequences, Plan B may encourage many Afghan fence-sitters in the current conflict to keep hedging their bets. It may convince many in the Pakistani army to keep up support for the Haqqani network and Quetta Shura Taliban as backup plans of their own. They fear a premature U.S. withdrawal either leading to complete chaos in Afghanistan or, just as bad from a Pakistani perspective, an Afghan regime dominated by the former Northern Alliance and thus too friendly to India.


CT’s range means it cant solve—the plan would end the hammer and anvil strategy which results in indo/pak war—they also make large scale civil war inevitable
Riedel and O’Hanlon 11 (Bruce and Michael Michael O’Hanlon is a Senior Fellow and director of research at Brookings, coauthor with Hassina Sherjan of Toughing It Out in Afghanistan (Brookings Institution Press, 2010), and coauthor of Brookings’ Afghanistan Index. Bruce Riedel is a Fellow in the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings and author of The Search for Al Qaeda (Brookings Institution Press, 2008), and Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America and the Future of Global Jihad (Brookings Institution Press, 2011). In 2009, he chaired President Obama’s review of policy toward Afghanistan and Pakistan. “Plan A-Minus for Afghanistan” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2010/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel.pdf //Donnie)//
//Long-range counterterrorism strikes are almost oxymoronic, since they cannot succeed without intelligence that can be gained only by access to the local population. Just when the United States is putting more pressure on Pakistan over that country’s safe havens, and has raised the possibility of using a ‘‘hammer and anvil’’ strategy (with Pakistani forces closing in on the FATA from the east and NATO/Afghan forces closing in from the west) against various extremist groups near the Durand Line between Afghanistan and Pakistan, it would be relenting on the pressure. Not only al Qaeda, but also Pakistan’s own Taliban, with its ambitions of destabilizing that nuclear-armed state, and the Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist group, with its ambitions of attacking India and perhaps provoking Indo— Pakistani war, could take refuge in this general ‘‘Pashtunistan’’ region of Afghanistan. Those who assert that the Afghan Taliban may no longer have sympathy for these other extremists base their hopes on a thin reed. Mullah Omar and Osama bin Laden continue to work together to send terrorists to the United States, as illustrated by the foiled 2009 New York metro attack planned for the eighth anniversary of the September 11, 2001 attacks. The three U.S. citizens led by Najibullah Zazi, who have pleaded guilty to the plot, were referred to al Qaeda after initially approaching the Taliban to fight in Afghanistan. The Taliban were active recruiters for an al Qaeda attack on the U.S. homeland, and it is not clear why the Afghan Taliban would become more moderate at the very moment it defeated NATO and reclaimed control of its historical heartland.8 Moreover with Plan B, the die would be cast for civil war in Afghanistan, as the Tajikdominated northern state and the Taliban-run Pashtun belt would likely wind up fighting furiously, over Kabul in particular. Plan B may wind up as the only option, if all else fails, but it is more likely to lead to a defeat of NATO and its Afghan allies than to be a sound strategic choice for the United States.//


//2NC Overview//
//The counterplan solves all of the case—it would end COIN but would keep training Afghan security forces and make the draw down gradual scaling with the training of forces.//
//This is better than the aff for a few reasosn//
//First-it prevents protracted conflict, there is no clear time that a CT strategy would stop, we could be there shooting at the Taliban until 2100. The counterplan makes sure we leave by the 2014 deadline with troops trained to take our place—solves overstreach better, and internal link turns the heg advantage.//
//Second-it avoids all of the disads to CT shift—with security forces in place when we leave we don’t have to worry about a total insurgent takeover and pakistan would be chill because someone was there to pass the torch to. In the world of the aff pakistan freaks out and sides with the Taliban because they want to be on the winning team…also makes massive civil war inevitable//
//Riedel and O’Hanlon 11 (Bruce and Michael Michael O’Hanlon is a Senior Fellow and director of research at Brookings, coauthor with Hassina Sherjan of Toughing It Out in Afghanistan (Brookings Institution Press, 2010), and coauthor of Brookings’ Afghanistan Index. Bruce Riedel is a Fellow in the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings and author of The Search for Al Qaeda (Brookings Institution Press, 2008), and Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America and the Future of Global Jihad (Brookings Institution Press, 2011). In 2009, he chaired President Obama’s review of policy toward Afghanistan and Pakistan. “Plan A-Minus for Afghanistan” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2010/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel.pdf// Donnie)
However, Plan B_focused on targeted counterterrorism operations_would likely amount to a soft partition of the country, with a Tajik-dominated rumpAfghanistan of perhaps 18—20 million people, and some 60—70 percent of the country’s land area, constituting the essence of the surviving state. Hazara, Uzbek, and Pashtun minorities would remain within the relatively safe zones, but most Pashtun areas and most of the 12—14 million Pashtuns living in contemporary Afghanistan would be on the outs_in a large swath of land effectively conceded to the Taliban (or to civil warfare) which would likely include most or all of the present-day provinces of Kandahar, Helmand, Zabul, Uruzgan, Nimroz, perhaps parts of Farah and Daykundi, and a few other central areas.6 As Bob Woodward’s book Obama’s Wars starkly underscores, critics of current U.S. strategy have several key sympathizers in the White House, and they may still have considerable influence with the president in ongoing and future policy debates about Afghanistan.7 Among other consequences, Plan B may encourage many Afghan fence-sitters in the current conflict to keep hedging their bets. It may convince many in the Pakistani army to keep up support for the Haqqani network and Quetta Shura Taliban as backup plans of their own. They fear a premature U.S. withdrawal either leading to complete chaos in Afghanistan or, just as bad from a Pakistani perspective, an Afghan regime dominated by the former Northern Alliance and thus too friendly to India.

None of their “COIN bad” offense applies—there was no offensive reason for a CT strat in afghanistan—if we win a 1% risk CT sucks you should vote negative because all of the affs impacts get solved for




The counterplan would have erry’body gone by 2014—maintains stability as opposed to the aff who emboldens insurgents
Riedel and O’Hanlon 11 (Bruce and Michael Michael O’Hanlon is a Senior Fellow and director of research at Brookings, coauthor with Hassina Sherjan of Toughing It Out in Afghanistan (Brookings Institution Press, 2010), and coauthor of Brookings’ Afghanistan Index. Bruce Riedel is a Fellow in the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings and author of The Search for Al Qaeda (Brookings Institution Press, 2008), and Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America and the Future of Global Jihad (Brookings Institution Press, 2011). In 2009, he chaired President Obama’s review of policy toward Afghanistan and Pakistan. “Plan A-Minus for Afghanistan” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2010/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel.pdf //Donnie)//
//Tying troop drawdowns to the growth and maturation of Afghan security forces is a better option, should it become clear that Plan A cannot achieve its goals. Afghan security forces now number more than 260,000 and are due to grow to 305,000 by next fall. Further growth to 400,000 would be possible by late 2012 or 2013, and should be adopted as a formal goal by ISAF as soon as possible. That number should largely suffice for Afghanistan’s needs_based on metrics for the ratio of troops to population and the nature of the threat, which is most severe inthe south and east_though it might also be complemented by the less-formalized (but still government-controlled) Afghan Local Police now being developed at the community level to provide security in remote areas.9 The particulars of NATO drawdowns should not be set to a firm timeline, and Congress should not appropriate funds for 2012 against any binding plan to reduce troops by an inflexible schedule. Battlefield conditions must influence the details of the process, but the rough contours of such an approach could be sketched out in advance. Under this plan, U.S. forces would start to decline by late 2011, or certainly by 2012, and be reduced by 20,000 to 30,000 troops a year thereafter. Nevertheless, make no mistake about it, this plan is still demanding. That is why it is described as ‘‘Plan A-’’ rather than a different form of Plan B. Some may wonder what distinguishes it from Obama’s existing approach. Since the latter has not been clearly specified in all ways, it is difficult to say, but the shortest answer is that Plan A- would not make comprehensive progress across all 125 or so current key terrain districts a precondition for initiating a drawdown. As such, it would not be open-ended in duration. Drawdown trajectories would be tied primarily to the growth and maturation of Afghan security forces_though again, some flexibility would be retained. Plan A is clearly preferable to Plan A- if the former works. It would less likely concede even modestly sized sanctuaries to extremists for a substantial period of time. However, Plan A may not work. If violence continues to increase, the Karzai government fails to make further progress at reform, and especially if the sanctuaries for insurgents remain largely unaddressed within Pakistan, there will be a case for reappraisal. Perhaps the most significant factor of all in choosing between Plan A and Plan A- should be U.S. confidence that its presence is no longer sustaining corruption and stoking the insurgency. If the United States is having such unhelpful effects, beginning a withdrawal might improve rather than worsen the prospects of at least modest success. The United States should not withdraw quickly, however, because the Afghan army and police, while improving, are not yet ready to prevent an insurgent victory on their soil in the short term. It is also because the new training effort for Afghan forces requires intensive partnering in the field_that is, patrolling and fighting together. But under Plan A-, if some parts of the country proved difficult to stabilize in the next couple of years, the United States could view them as longer-term challenges primarily for Afghan forces rather than NATO militaries. That is both this strategy’s central appeal, and its central risk. Afghanistan would in effect have its own ‘‘Federally Administered Tribal Areas,’’ perhaps of roughly comparable population to the FATA regions of Pakistan which Islamabad is gradually seeking to stabilize. Those areas already cleared by ISAF and the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) would not be conceded back to the insurgents, but operations in areas not yet cleared might in some cases be delayed. The number of ‘‘key terrain districts’’ that ISAF sought to control and stabilize might decline modestly from the present number of about 125, and the transition from an ISAF lead role to ANSF leadership might be accelerated in places.//

//AT They Never Get Trained//
//If they win this it’s a 100% case takeout//
//Security force training is going great—pay raises and literacy programs have the forces booming!!//
//Riedel and O’Hanlon 11 (Bruce and Michael Michael O’Hanlon is a Senior Fellow and director of research at Brookings, coauthor with Hassina Sherjan of Toughing It Out in Afghanistan (Brookings Institution Press, 2010), and coauthor of Brookings’ Afghanistan Index. Bruce Riedel is a Fellow in the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings and author of The Search for Al Qaeda (Brookings Institution Press, 2008), and Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America and the Future of Global Jihad (Brookings Institution Press, 2011). In 2009, he chaired President Obama’s review of policy toward Afghanistan and Pakistan. “Plan A-Minus for Afghanistan” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2010/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel.pdf// Donnie)
One appeal of this alternative, relative to Plan B, is that it could be adopted as a logical extension of the current effort without any need to publicly acknowledge a setback. An even more important rationale is that NATO’s strategy for improving the Afghan army and police is now beginning to work. In fact, many changes in recent months within the effort to build the Afghan army and police offer grounds for hope, including: tripling the ratio of trainers to army and police recruits; approximately doubling pay for the typical Afghan soldier or policeman (finally outbidding the Taliban’s salaries); roughly doubling the length of training regimens; creating specialized courses for noncommissioned Army officers, as well as for special branches such as artillery and logistics; deploying most graduates of Afghanistan’s prestigious military academy to the field rather than Kabul (at least 95 percent of the class of 2009 stayed in Kabul_by last count, at least 95 percent of the class of 2010 is still in the field); creating literacy courses for 25,000 Afghan security personnel at a time; and paying soldiers and police by electronic banking (and training them to access it) to reduce the skimming of salaries by commanding officers. Best of all, perhaps, is the above-noted partnering concept. This is really a form of apprenticeship. Prior to 2009, most Afghan security forces received a modest amount of training, were quickly formed into units, and then dispatched to the field to fend largely for themselves. Under generals Stanley McChrystal and Petraeus, as well as generalsWilliam Caldwell and David Rodriguez, that has radically changed. The basic idea now is to team Afghan units with NATO partners which would normally be within one echelon of each other in size (ideally, for example, a NATO battalion would work with a larger Afghan brigade). Partnering presently involves some 90 percent of all Afghan army units in the field. About three-fourths of all such ISAF sister units are co-located with their Afghan partners or based close to each other.10 Only about a quarter of police units have such help, but those numbers are growing. Partnering radically improves training. It also boosts confidence among Afghans since they patrol with ISAF/NATO units that can quickly call in reinforcements or airpower if ambushed. And it also helps ISAF carry out anticorruption efforts on the ground, since ISAF personnel can witness the behavior of Afghan commanders in real time and report misbehavior up the Afghan chain of command to Minister of Defense Abdul Rahim Wardak or the new Minister of Interior Bismullah Khan Mohammadi. There is progress from this system already. NATO’s new evaluation system for the Afghan army, which also evaluates anticorruption measures and leadership, now rates half of all Afghan army battalions (or ‘‘kandaks’’) as a ‘‘3’’ or above on a scale of 1—5. The equivalent of a ‘‘C’’ is not a great grade, but it is not bad as an interim result.11


New courses, battlefield performance
O’Hanlon 10 (Michael E. O'Hanlon, Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative “A Bright Spot Among Afghan Woes” http://www.brookings-tsinghua.cn/sitecore/content/Home/opinions/2010/0519_afghan_army_ohanlon.aspx //Donnie)//
//New courses have been created for Afghan noncommissioned officers, the leaders crucial to any good military’s performance in the field. Graduates of Afghanistan’s military officer academy, who would have previously been steered to safe jobs by political allies, are now deployed where they are most needed -- in the field. As a result, the Afghan army is now on track to reach its interim goal of 134,000 troops by this fall, and an ultimate size of roughly 171,000 by next year. The pursuit of quantity is not slowing efforts to improve the force’s quality. One indicator of the latter is the number of Afghan soldiers with basic marksmanship proficiency -- previously 35 percent, now 65 percent. But best is how these forces are doing in the field. Formed into units and deployed, they are teamed with NATO units—an Afghan brigade of some 3,000 soldiers might be paired with a U.S. battalion of, say, 1,000, for example, though ratios can vary. And in some places, NATO continues to outnumber the Afghan security forces, at least for now. Those sister units then exercise, patrol and fight together, providing on-the-job training to complement the schoolroom and basic field instruction. With the typical Afghan unit, this process continues for many months -- if not a year or two. In some places, in fact, the development has been so rapid that Afghan Army units are planning and conducting operations on their own—even declining to ask for help in some of them. There is a long way to go, and the police lag the army badly among other problems, with drug abuse and corruption still big challenges. But progress is already palpable. The Afghan Army is the best place I found to look for good news to balance the all too common bad news in Afghanistan. A strong Afghan security force is probably the linchpin of our exit strategy, so this good news should not be underrated.//

//More ev//
//O’Hanlon 10 (Michael O’Hanlon | senior fellow at the Brookings Institution madison.com |//
//“Reasons for hope on Afghanistan” http://host.madison.com/ct/news/opinion/column/article_7bc01a6a-28ad-5cd9-ac73-bbf41e5346e9.html// Donnie)
There aren’t enough trainers for Afghan security forces. Our allies have not quite met their promises, or our expectations, for additional trainers. But allies have deployed more than 5,000 additional combat troops this year, exceeding the pace expected. The number of U.S. trainers has risen, and the number of Afghan officers graduating from training has more than doubled since last year. Growth trajectories for the Afghan army and police remain on schedule. Perhaps most important, nearly 85 percent of Afghan army units are “partnered” with coalition units, meaning that they plan, patrol, train and fight together. This is one of Gen. McChrystal’s many positive legacies. In southern and eastern Afghanistan last month I saw many signs of the Afghan army’s willingness to fight. The number of key districts where security conditions are at least tolerable, if not yet good, is up modestly.


2NC Stability Solvency
CP fosters the necessary conditions for a stable government—solves net better than the aff
Riedel and O’Hanlon 11 (Bruce and Michael Michael O’Hanlon is a Senior Fellow and director of research at Brookings, coauthor with Hassina Sherjan of Toughing It Out in Afghanistan (Brookings Institution Press, 2010), and coauthor of Brookings’ Afghanistan Index. Bruce Riedel is a Fellow in the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings and author of The Search for Al Qaeda (Brookings Institution Press, 2008), and Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America and the Future of Global Jihad (Brookings Institution Press, 2011). In 2009, he chaired President Obama’s review of policy toward Afghanistan and Pakistan. “Plan A-Minus for Afghanistan” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2010/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel.pdf //Donnie)//
//Plan A still has a good chance in Afghanistan. Robust counterinsurgency, concentrated in the Pashtun belt, may succeed in largely defusing the insurgency while building up Afghan institutions including the army, police, and other parts of the government. There is more promising news of late than most realize. Having said that, responsible strategists must ask the question of what the United States should do if the current approach in Afghanistan fails. Victory cannot be assured simply through resolve; the current strategy may face challenges that prevent accomplishing its core goals. If Afghan security forces continue to improve, but trends in violence do not, the best approach may be a Plan A-Minus which emphasizes stabilizing a smaller number of key districts in Afghanistan, while building up the army and police according to current plans. The latter missions involve, importantly, partnering in the field between ISAF and Afghan units, so this plan is hardly a prescription for a rapid departure or an easy road ahead for U.S. and other foreign forces. But it would place a time limit on the operation that Plan A may not. To be sure, the slogan that ‘‘we can stand down as Iraqis stand up’’ failed in a different recent conflict. Iraq was in civil war and the violence simply needed to be contained before anything else was possible. But Afghanistan is a far less violent place today than Iraq was in 2004—2007, and it suffers less from civil violence than a localized insurgency. So, a drawdown plan tied largely to the growth and maturation of the Afghan security forces may be more workable than a similar plan proved to be in Iraq. It is not the preferred option, and it carries risks, as any sanctuaries for extremists in Afghanistan would be undesirable. But it bounds those risks relative to the increasingly popular Plan B_also sometimes described as counterterrorism-plus_being discussed today in debates in the United States and the United Kingdom. Plan A-Minus may not offer the prospect of a ‘‘hammer and anvil’’ approach in broader Pashtunistan, with Pakistani and NATO/Afghan forces closing in from different directions, but it does offer hope of a gradually tightening vise on both sides, even if the process could be slow and uneven. It is understandably important to President Obama to reassure Americans that, while the conflict in Afghanistan is hardly near its end, it will not become his Vietnam. But it is equally important that he find a way, sooner rather than later, to convey that under no plausible circumstances will he revert next year to a ‘‘counterterrorism-plus’’ approach. The new NATO emphasis on transferring primary responsibility for security to Afghans by the end of 2014 is a good start in this regard but further clarity is still needed. By bounding the future options for Afghanistan within the current strategy of comprehensive counterinsurgency and an alternative focusing somewhat more narrowly on the Afghan security forces, the United States can improve the odds of achieving at least a minimally acceptable outcome in Afghanistan. Among its other advantages, framing the debate roughly within these parameters would reassure Afghans and Pakistanis, who are now hedging against a rapid U.S. withdrawal that they fear will begin next year. Framing the debate in this way could make them more likely to support U.S. and NATO efforts to achieve what remains a crucial strategic goal for the United States and its allies: to stabilize Afghanistan, and thereby prevent the reestablishment of what would be the largest and safest sanctuary anywhere on the planet for global extremist groups.//


//Solves Taliban takeover comparably better//
//O’Hanlon 10 (Michael E. O'Hanlon, Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative “On Afghanistan: Why Not "Plan A-"?”//
//http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0930_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx// Donnie)
Rather than conceding one-third or more of the country to extremists after reducing our forces, we should link our drawdown to the development of the Afghan security forces. They now number 240,000 and are due to increase to 305,000 by next fall. Further growth, to roughly 400,000, could be possible by late 2012 or 2013. That target is higher than the White House has yet approved. Indeed, as Woodward reveals, it was resisted in last year's policy review. But it makes sense, is preferable to any alternative backup plan and would probably be enough for the country's needs. Over time, the Afghan army and police could extend greater control over regions that remain chaotic - just as Pakistan hopes to stabilize its tribal regions on the other side of the border in coming years. It might not work completely in the foreseeable future, but it could limit the size of any lawless areas and attempt to shrink them over time. U.S. forces could start leaving by late 2011 or 2012 under this alternative strategy, and be reduced by 20,000 to 30,000 troops a year thereafter. Make no mistake: This plan is still demanding. Indeed, it might be better called "Plan A-" instead of "Plan B." U.S. and other NATO-led forces would likely keep fighting in Afghanistan for two to three more years -- even under a plan that emphasized Afghan efforts. The army and police, while improving, are not likely to be ready in the short term to prevent an insurgent victory. Our new training effort for Afghan forces also requires intensive partnering -- patrolling and fighting together. But with this plan, we would not need to stay indefinitely. If some regions -- particularly the south, in Kandahar and Helmand -- proved hard to stabilize in the next few years, we could view them as long-term challenges for Afghan forces rather than NATO troops. Our own involvement beyond 2012-3 would be limited to a supporting role. One reason this Plan A- makes sense is that it can be adopted as a logical extension of the current effort without having to acknowledge a setback. But an even more important rationale is that NATO's strategy for improving the Afghan army and police is now beginning to work. Progress has been rapid this year, helped by tripling the number of trainers, doubling pay for Afghan soldiers or policemen, roughly doubling length of training regimens and creating literacy courses for 25,000 Afghan security personnel at a time. More than 90 percent of Afghan army units now have a permanent NATO sister unit. Police have further to go, but are moving in the right direction, at last. By bounding our future options in Afghanistan within these two possible approaches-the current strategy of comprehensive counterinsurgency, and an alternative focusing more narrowly on the Afghan security forces - we can improve the odds of achieving at least a minimally acceptable outcome: the prevention of a Taliban takeover and no permanent sanctuary for extremists on Afghan soil. Framing our debate within these parameters would help reassure Afghans and Pakistanis, many of whom are now hedging against a rapid U.S. withdrawal that they fear will start next year. They would be more likely to support our efforts. At the same time, this new plan would allow Obama to reassure Americans that, though the conflict in Afghanistan is hardly near its end, it is not going to become his Vietnam.


CP key to Pakistan support—the plan causes the government to backlash and costs us the war
O’Hanlon 10 (Michael E. O'Hanlon, Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative . “How to Win Back Pakistan” http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/1108_pakistan_ohanlon.aspx //Donnie)
But even if limited Pakistani capacity is part of the problem, there's more at stake. Pakistan worries that President Barack Obama's promise to start reducing U.S. troops in Afghanistan come July will lead to anarchy and civil conflict next door, and it is retaining proxies that it can use to ensure that its top goal in Afghanistan -- keeping India out -- can be accomplished come what may. Pakistan would rather have the Taliban and the Haqqanis back in power, especially in the country's south and east, than any group like the former Northern Alliance, which it views as too close to New Delhi. It is this strategic calculation, more than constrained Pakistani resources, that constitutes Obama's main challenge in Afghanistan. And it could cost him the war. Under these circumstances, part of the right policy is to keep doing more of what the Obama administration has been doing with Pakistan -- building trust, as with last month's strategic dialogue in Washington; increasing aid incrementally, as with the new five-year $2 billion aid package announced during that dialogue; and coordinating militarily across the border region. But Obama also needs to think bigger. First, he needs to make clear America's commitment to South Asia, to wean Pakistan away from its current hedging strategy. Obama has frequently used general language to try to reassure listeners in the region that there will be no precipitous U.S. withdrawal next summer. But few fully believe him. Hearing stories like Bob Woodward's accounts of how the vice president and White House advisors have generally opposed a robust counterinsurgency strategy in favor of a counterterrorism-oriented operation with far fewer U.S. troops, they worry that next summer's withdrawal will be fast. Obama needs to explain that he will not revert to such a minimalist "Plan B" approach under any imaginable circumstances. More appropriate would be a "Plan A-minus" that involves a gradual NATO troop drawdown as Afghan forces grow in number and capability, without necessarily first stabilizing the entire south and east, should the current strategy not turn around the violence by next summer or so. This would represent a modification to the current plan rather than a radical departure. The president can find a way to signal that this is in fact his own thinking, sooner rather than later -- ideally before the year is out.




==Indo/Pak Negotionation CP== 

TEXT: The United States should advocate for NATO-backed negotiations between India and Pakistan, encouraging Pakistan to repudiate its claims over Kashmir and to drive off Al-Qaeda from its territory in exchange for India repudiating its claims over Afghanistan.

NATO led India-Pakistan-Afghanistan-Kashmir peace talks only root to regional stability – solves better than CT or troop surge – even if we don’t go for the counterplan this is an alt cause they can’t solve for
The Guardian 10 [William Dalrymple, “This is no Nato game but Pakistan's proxy war with its brother in the south”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2010/jul/01/afghanistan-pakistan-proxy-war-with-india, 7/1]
The problem remains that we continue to view the situation in Afghanistan through western eyes, as a battle between the US and Nato against al-Qaida and the Taliban – an impression William Hague's speech yesterday underlined. But this has long ceased to be the main issue, and British troops are now caught up in a complex local and regional conflict that has completely changed the nature of the war. Internally, the war is viewed primarily as a Pashtun rebellion against a Tajik, Uzbek and Hazara-dominated regime, which has only a fig leaf of Pashtun window-dressing in the person of Karzai. For although Karzai is a Pashtun, under his watch Nato installed the Northern Alliance in Kabul and drove out of power Afghanistan's Pashtun majority. In this way we unwittingly took sides in the Afghan civil war that began in the 1970s – siding with the north against the south, the town against the country, secularism against Islam, and the Tajiks against the Pashtuns. We installed a government and trained up an army that in many ways discriminated against the Pashtun majority, and whose top-down constitution allowed for little federalism or regional representation. No matter how much western liberals may dislike the Taliban, they are in many ways the authentic voice of rural Pashtun conservatism, whose wishes are ignored by the government in Kabul and who are largely excluded from power. Externally the war has now turned, like Kashmir, into an Indo-Pak proxy war in which Nato is really a bit player. Under Karzai, India has established increasing political and economic influence in Afghanistan, opened four regional consulates and provided reconstruction assistance amounting to about $662m. The Pakistani military establishment, already terrified of India turning into a new economic superpower, has always believed it would be suicide to accept an Indian presence in what they regard as their strategic Afghan backyard, and is completely paranoid about the still small Indian presence, rather as the British used to feel about Russians in Afghanistan in the days of the Great Game. According to Indian diplomatic sources there are still less than 3,600 Indians in Afghanistan, almost all of them businessmen and contract workers; there are only 10 Indian diplomatic officers as opposed to nearly 150 in the UK embassy. Yet the horror of being squeezed in an Indian nutcracker has led the ISI to risk its internal security and coherence – as well as Pakistan's relationship with its main strategic ally, the US – in order to keep the Taliban in play and its leadership under watch and ISI patronage in Quetta. Indeed the degree to which the ISI has been controlling the Afghan Taliban has only just emerged. A report by Matt Waldman of the Carr Centre for Human Rights at Harvard, based on interviews with 10 former Taliban commanders, documented how the ISI "orchestrates, sustains and strongly influences" the Taliban, and that the ISI are even "represented as participants or observers on the Taliban supreme leadership council, the Quetta Shura". Karzai's new deal with the Pakistanis, and his obvious intention to try to reach some accommodation with the Haqqani wing of the Taliban through Pakistan's mediation, therefore represents a major strategic victory for the Pakistani military and a serious diplomatic defeat for India – though it remains to be seen if the ISI really can deliver the Taliban, who today were proclaiming their unwillingness to negotiate with Karzai. It also remains to be seen whether the Pakistani military can defend their own country from the jihadi Frankenstein's monster they have created. This dangerous new situation does offer some opportunities. Until now India, relishing its ever-growing international status, has understandably and angrily resisted any linkage between an Afghan settlement and Indo-Pak peace, which would involve finding a final agreement on Kashmir. Yet the linkage is already there, and there are many clear benefits for India if it is prepared to accept ground realities and negotiate. The stage is now open for a deal whereby India could agree to minimise its presence in Afghanistan – which it could accept as Pakistan's sphere of influence – in return for Pakistan withdrawing its longstanding sponsorship of the Kashmir jihad, which it could accept as India's domain. To satisfy Nato, an undertaking by Pakistan to drive al-Qaida from the region would also need to be included. Such a deal would certainly be difficult to sell domestically. There would be strong resistance by the many hawks in both India and Pakistan. Yet such an understanding would be the best and possibly only hope for a regional peace that might allow Afghans, Kashmiris, Pakistanis and Indians some chance of a stable future and to concentrate on the regional issues that really matter – feeding and educating the largest undernourished population in the world. The truth is that a Nato diplomatic offensive aimed at selling this solution is likely to have a far more positive effect than any amount of counterproductive military surges and drone strikes. For in calming the dangerous paranoia of the Pakistan military lies the only realistic chance of regional peace – and the war is likely to continue until the ISI can be persuaded that its own jihadis are a far bigger threat to Pakistan than that posed by India, its South Asian big brother over its border.



==Consult Congress CP== 
===1NC=== 
Text: The president of the United States should enter into prior, binding, genuine consultation with the United States Congress concerning the issue of <plan> The president of the United states will advocate for the action throughout the process of consultation and implement the results of the decision.
We’ll clarify

Prior binding consultation is fast and key to gain popularity of agenda items—guarantees a say yes, shields the pltx link, and creates uniqueness for our disad by creating a bipartisan atmosphere
Hamilton 6 (“Executive-Legislative Relations” The Hon. Lee H. Hamilton CSIS Capitol Hill Colloquium http://www.wilsoncenter.org/about/director/docs/Hamilton_exec-leg.docDonnie)
This morning I have (…) more unified U.S. foreign policy.

Leaks are inevitable absent genuine consultation—non-consultation crush US democracy and risk rollback by the courts
Goldsmith 7 (“The Terror Presidency” Goldsmith served as head of the Office of Legal Counsel from October 2003 to July 2004. http://www.slate.com/id/2173488///Donnie)//
//Whereas Roosevelt was (…) overall, as Roosevelt understood.//

//US democracy is modeled globally//
//Durand 1( Cliff Durand, Morgan University “Democracy and Struggles for Social Justice” http://www.globaljusticecenter.org/papers/durand1.htm//Donnie)
The identification of (…)the prescriptive standard of democracy.

Diamond



=== === 
2NC Overview
=== === 
Consultation shows congress the presidents side of things, it makes them want to support the policy—dialogue solves any backlash which proves we solve the case and no link politics heres more ev

Flilipink 2 (Mr. Filipink is Visiting Instructor at SUNY Fredonia.
“Even Presidents Who Consult Congress Can Get into Trouble” http://hnn.us/articles/947.html//Donnie)//
//Consultation with Congress (… )foreign friends and enemies.//

//Empirics flow neg//
//Epps 9 (Garrett Epps, a former reporter for The Washington Post, teaches Constitutional Law at the University of Baltimore. He is the author of Peyote v the State, The First Amendment: Freedom of the Press, and Democracy Reborn. “Beyond West Point: Congressional Authorization and Obama's Afghanistan Surge” http://www.politicsdaily.com/2009/12/15/beyond-west-point-congressional-authorization-and-obamas-afgha///Donnie)
As was so (…) to pull out later?)


More ev, rallies the public behind the prez
Epps 9 (Garrett Epps, a former reporter for The Washington Post, teaches Constitutional Law at the University of Baltimore. He is the author of Peyote v the State, The First Amendment: Freedom of the Press, and Democracy Reborn. “Beyond West Point: Congressional Authorization and Obama's Afghanistan Surge” http://www.politicsdaily.com/2009/12/15/beyond-west-point-congressional-authorization-and-obamas-afgha///Donnie)//
//Consultation also rallies (…) to disavow it later.//

//Non-consultation guarantees policy disaster—the perm cant capture this because its an example of a crappy consultation//
//Hamilton 4 (Lee, a former member of the United States House of Representatives and currently a member of the U.S. Homeland Security Advisory Council. “Why the President Needs the Help of Congress to Make Foreign Policy” http://congress.indiana.edu/radio_commentaries/why_president_needs_help_of_congress.php//Donnie)
Though it might (…) President should ignore.



===2NC Genuine Consultation Key=== 

Genuine consultation is crucial to policy-making
Hamilton 7 (Lee Hamilton is Director of the Center on Congress at Indiana University. He was a member of the U.S. House of Representatives for 34 years “Why Not Try Genuine Consultation?” http://www.centeroncongress.org/radio_commentaries/why_not_try_genuine_consultation.php//Donnie)//
//Facing the prospect; (…) legacy than that.//

//Genuine consultation key—only way to avoid our pltx link//
//Power Line 9 (“The Goldsmith Variations” http://www.powerlineblog.com/archives/2009/05/023598.php//Donnie)

[The Obama administration] (…)and prudent government.

Lack of genuine consultation violates liberty—the president has a constitutional obligation
Politics Daily 9 (“Beyond West Point: Congressional Authorization and Obama's Afghanistan Surge” http://www.politicsdaily.com/2009/12/15/beyond-west-point-congressional-authorization-and-obamas-afgha///Donnie)//
//Most people assume (…) organizations or persons."//

//Petro//

//Lies=drule//
//Mark C. Murphy, 1996 [41 Am. J. Juris. 81]//
//Bok's remarks capture (…)agreement with Kant.//

//Perms lie will leak//
//Obama in the White House 10/22 (“Classified Information Leaks out Incriminating Several People in Bush's Administration” http://www.obamainthewhitehouse.us/2010/10/classified-information-leaks-out.html//Donnie)
Sensitive classified information (…) President Bush allowed.

More ev, bureaucracy will leak the info
Wilson and Dilulio 98, Professors of Political Science and UCLA and Princeton, James Q. Wilson and John J. [American Government: Institutions and Policies, p. 291]
American government is (…)print government secrets.




2NC AT Delay Solvency Deficit

Consultation can only be delayed three days—creates a bipartisan atmosphere

Baker 9 (James A. Baker III, the U.S. secretary of State from 1989-92, and Warren Christopher, the U.S. secretary of State from 1993-97, are the co-chairmen of the National War Powers Commission convened at the University of Virginia. “War act would ensure that president, Congress consult”
http://www.usatoday.com/topics/post/Campbell/63566591.blog/1//Donnie)//
//As a result, (…)with independent advice.//




=== === 
New COIN CP
=== === 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Text: The United States federal government should </span></span>


**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">-announce that it will not follow the July 2011 withdrawal date from Afghanistan</span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">-remain committed to the counterinsurgency strategy, including using the surge as a means to implement that strategy.</span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">-develop a program to guarantee the security and the employment of insurgents and other former combatants who agree to lay down their weapons.</span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">-end centralization efforts in Afghanistan and emphasize and practice a decentralized state in Afghanistan</span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">-publicly announce it will stop using the phrase ‘war on terrorism’ and instead emphasize that the war is necessary to defeat al-qaeda</span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">-develop and economic aid program for Afghanistan and Pakistan described as per our Stewart evidence</span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">-</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">substantially increase funds for advertising for people to join the military, entitlement bonuses and the number of military recruiters on duty.
-offer pay raises and bonuses for those who reenlist for the military for additional tours.
-offer educational incentives for those who join the military.
We’ll clarify.
Increasing recruting incentives like the cp solves quickest
</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kapp 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lawrence, 2/25/2002, “Recruiting and Retention in the Active Component Military: Are There Problems?” CRS, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.policyarchive.org/handle/10207/bitstreams/1356.pdf]]</span>, D.A. 7/26)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Historically</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">, the first …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">civilian employers</span>**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Retention is the key internal link—it has a snowball effect that kills the whole army—this is an alt cause to the aff even if we kick the CP
Krepinevich 2K</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrew, 9/1/2000, “Ready for What?,” Wall Street Journal, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/Archive/O.20000901.Ready_for_What/O.20000901.Ready_for_What.htm]]</span>, D.A. 7/26)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The charged nature …</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">is crucial here.</span>**

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Developing a surrender program is something CT uniquenly lacks—cp solves the best internal to stability</span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stewart et al 9</span></span> (**Rory Stewart **is the Ryan Professor of Human Rights at the Harvard’s Kennedy School and the Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy and of its Afghanistan-Pakistan**
//**program. http://www.cic.nyu.edu/afghanistan/docs/Afghanistan-PakistanTaskForce.pdf**//Donnie)
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The U.S.</span></span> and ... **<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">livelihood and security. </span></span>**

<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Aid program solves—poverty is the root cause </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stewart et al 9</span></span> (Rory Stewart **is the Ryan Professor of Human Rights at the Harvard’s Kennedy School and the Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy and of its Afghanistan-Pakistan**
program. http://www.cic.nyu.edu/afghanistan/docs/Afghanistan-PakistanTaskForce.pdf**//Donnie)//**
**While the insurgency …instrument of disbursement.**



**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The cp’s public annoucnment solves resentment—that’s their key internal to stability</span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stewart et al 9</span></span> (**Rory Stewart **is the Ryan Professor of Human Rights at the Harvard’s Kennedy School and the Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy and of its Afghanistan-Pakistan**
//**program. http://www.cic.nyu.edu/afghanistan/docs/Afghanistan-PakistanTaskForce.pdf**//Donnie)
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The U.S. policy …</span></span>of this Task Force.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The cp solves the centralization aspects of the aff-it changes the strat
Castonguay 10</span></span> (David, analyst of international affairs, seems like a good guy. “In Praise of Warlords” http://davidcastonguay.blogspot.com**///Donnie//**
**Instead, the solution lies within the Afghanis themselves and in particular the tribal system of the Pashtuns. <span class="underline">The <span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">U.S. military must …will remain incoherent.</span></span>**

**CP is a key signal of resolve—even if the aff wins we are losing now that would only be because there is fear the US is not committed to the war which makes locals not want to co-operate-cp’s signal would solve this and allow us to beat back the insurgency**
//**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Herman 10/20</span></span> (**//<span style="font-style: normal;">Arthur Herman is a visiting scholar at AEI. “</span>//Al Qaeda on the Rise” http://www.aei.org/article/102682//Donnie)
Just when you thought it was safe to leave Iraq, al Qaeda is back--with a vengeance.
According to the //New York Times//, …playing a long shot?














== == 
Kritiks :D
== == 



==1NC COIN Gender K== 

1NC COIN Shell


The affirmative maintains the war in Afghanistan out of fear of being seen as weak and feminine—CT’s bombing of Afghani’s serves to restore our power at the expense of civilians lives, their attempt to fix Afghanistan is not only historically proven to be impossible but it is also problematic in the way it attempts to fix Afghanistan
Ramazani 2005 Vaheed, associate professor @ Tulane University, September 11: Masculinity, Justice, and the Politics of Empathy, Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East, Vol. XXI No. 1&2, http://cssaame.com/issues/21/ramazani.doc
What seems to me to have provoked far too little surprise, in the current climate of born-again patriotism, is the easy cohabitation of theology and machismo in the hortatory public discourse of our commentators and leaders. In a culture that prides itself on being secular, democratic, and sexually egalitarian—particularly, I should add, when it is by invoking their modern political liberalism that some Americans assert the superiority of their “open” society over the “closed” and oppressive society of their opponents—it ought to be of considerable concern to us as a nation, I think, that our official rhetoric of apocalyptic justice is in many ways the near echo of bin Laden’s call to holy war against evil, effeminacy, and sexual defilement.4 Indeed, despite the renewed credibility that the events of September 11 would seem to lend, if only superficially, to the problematic notion of a “clash of civilizations,”5 it is remarkable that one important way in which the supposedly distinct civilizations of East and West clearly do not clash is in their spontaneous articulation of a volatile blend of millenialist themes with traditional (Eastern? Western?) signifiers of masculine virtue (“courage,” “resolve,” “duty,” and so on). It is as if, immediately after the September attacks, George W. Bush were irresistibly compelled by some universal law of homosocial diplomacy to join his presumed antagonist (reified as “The Evil One”) in a transglobal ritual of competitive male bonding. A shared discursive ground became, paradoxically, a key catalyst in the United States’ rush to armed conflict—to a judgment-day showdown pitting good against evil, civilization against savagery, the “masculine” qualities of self-discipline and strength against the “feminine” qualities of weakness and fear. Whether or not one wishes to accord any significance to the phallic iconicity of the World Trade Center, it is obvious from the administration’s pronouncements following the attacks that the collapse of the Towers was experienced as emasculating, although “humiliating” is the term that the press prefers to use to describe the sudden wound to our national pride. To say this is not to trivialize the very real horror of the loss of nearly 3000 civilian lives; nor is it to reduce to a psychoanalytic master-narrative the referential opacity of the atrocity itself, the intended political meaning of which remains to this day at once glaringly obvious and deeply ambiguous; it is instead to acknowledge the presence of “private” fantasy at the center of our “public” political speech and in doing so to raise the question of the relation of such fantasy to our ability—or willingness—to care about suffering—to care responsibly about the suffering of others. And it is important to note here that the “others” I have in mind are not just the inhabitants of remote and foreign lands, but those—including the victims of September 11—who live and die daily on American soil. I shall not, therefore, suggest that the discourse of machismo blocks automatically our capacity for empathy; indeed, its considerable power to inflame collective passions springs from its cloying sentimentality. I shall argue instead that this manly manichaeism prevents us from empathizing fully and thoughtfully, by which I mean equitably rather than selfishly, justly and humanely rather than vengefully. And I offer this claim despite, or indeed, because of, the inherently vexed nature of any concept of justice—the historical contexts and cultural contingencies by which it is produced, constrained, and transformed. The first and, for that reason perhaps, also the most revealing name given by the White House to its retaliatory operation was, it will be recalled, “Infinite Justice.” The name was quickly withdrawn on the pretext that it might be offensive to Muslims (for whom, we were told, only Allah can administer infinite justice). But the name’s inadvertently patent messianic implications were in fact compatible with any of the major monotheistic religions and suggested, accordingly, that America’s Christian God was about to give a good thrashing to the God of the Prophet. So, despite official disclaimers that Islam and its peaceful practitioners were not the intended targets of the American reprisal, the counteroffensive took on instantly the tone of a crusade on behalf of “our” Christian God’s moral absolutes. Said President Bush, in his newfound capacity as Augur in Chief: “The course of this conflict is not known, yet its outcome is certain. Freedom and fear, justice and cruelty, have always been at war, and we know that God is not neutral between them.”6 One needs only glance at Nietzsche’s On the Genealogy of Morals to recall the history of collusion (not the timeless “war”) between justice and cruelty, or the extent to which freedom has consistently implied the right to violence and the will to power. Indeed, when Bush assures us that terrorism will not go “unpunished” (20 September), or that the Taliban “will pay a price,”7 he blithely exhibits what Nietzsche describes as a primitive form of barter mentality, a mode of cognition directly derived from “buying, selling, barter, trade, and traffic,” the cornerstone of which is the contract between creditor and debtor. For Nietzsche, the implication of this commercial logic for the concept of justice is that “every injury has its equivalent and can actually be paid back, even if only through the pain of the culprit.”8 But “how can making suffer constitute a compensation?” [T]o what extent can suffering balance debts or guilt? To the extent that to make suffer was in the highest degree pleasurable, to the extent that the injured party exchanged for the loss he had sustained, including the displeasure caused by the loss, an extraordinary counterbalancing pleasure: that of making suffer—a genuine festival.9 Complete with flags, bumper stickers, and hype from Hollywood stars; patriotic rock concerts and cheerleaders to regale our troops, the American festival of destruction has begun. In a sense, however, this festival of violence was already well under way. There is terrible irony in newscasters’ comments that the collapse of the Twin Towers was uncannily movie-like, or in the revelation that a chief operative of the al-Qaeda network was an ardent fan of Clint Eastwood films.10 In a twist of fate not unlike that of America now fighting the jihad it created, the U.S. was primed for war—and had similarly primed its own antagonist—partly through the media’s knack for storytelling, for producing the world’s foremost “action” entertainment. And how do we “control” the global taste for violence that we ourselves have tirelessly produced and purveyed? By manufacturing further scenarios of violence—not just for the big screen and popular consumption, but for virtual-reality training for the army, as technology and ideas circulate busily among screenwriters, scientists, and political advisers.11 A close relative, then, of the Hollywood revenge plot, infinite justice is essentially retributive. It is also oxymoronic. For to the extent that justice implies an equivalence—of crime and punishment in retributive justice, injury and redress in compensatory justice—no form of justice can in fact be “infinite”—immeasurable, proportionless, unlimited in scope and purpose. This may well be why Operation Infinite Justice and its nominal successor, Enduring Freedom, have been, both in theory and in actual practice, infinitely vague and enduringly free of clearly defined military and political objectives. If the goal is to stamp out “every terrorist group of global reach” (20 September), does that include separatists in Northern Ireland and militant right-wing fundamentalists in America? Would American military sanctions not also have to apply to Russian atrocities in Chechnya, to Chinese oppression in Tibet and Xinjiang, and to brutal government crackdowns against rebels in Indonesia? Would America not in principle have to find a suitable remedy for the hundreds of thousands of children who have died as a result of the economic sanctions it has levied on Iraq?12 Is the United States in no way complicit with the war crimes committed by its allies, the Northern Alliance, in Mazar-i-Sharif and Kunduz?13 Should the U.S. go unpunished for having armed, trained, and bankrolled dictators and genocidists in Africa and Central America? For allowing Israel’s illegal settlements, political assassinations, as well as torture and killing of Palestinian civilians? And didn’t the hijackers, on September 11, think of themselves as fighting for freedom—“enduring freedom” from repressive regimes propped up by America’s appetite for oil? If the fuzzy logic of Infinite Justice cannot even begin to address such questions, it is because they raise complex legal and ethical issues concerning, for example, the definition of pertinent evidence, the range of causation, the relation of intention to action and consequence,14 and the quantifiability of loss and recovery, responsibility and redress. It is not that such issues can ever be fully resolved, but that Bush’s rhetoric of justice avoids them altogether. It lifts us out of the world of inconvenient facts and embarrassing contradictions and transports us into a paradise of transcendental truth. And it is here, in the realm of moral dichotomies, that gendered euphemism lends a helping hand, by naturalizing as substantive, objective, or inevitable the abstract and disembodied categories of justice. For to the extent that the familiar taxonomies of gender seem self-evident, universal, derived from the laws of nature, they may camouflage as eternal and unproblematically referential a system of values the structure of which is symbolic—not fixed, absolute, or sanctioned by God, but situated, interpretive, and therefore provisional. The bombing of Afghanistan cannot bring back to life those who died suddenly on September 11, but it can—so our politicians and pundits seem to think—restore our nation’s body to its former integrity, its “masculine” health, purity, and strength. Implicitly, then, the body of Woman is the site both of repair and of reparation, as its porous boundaries and unclean surfaces—its lack, incontinence, pain, and mortality15—are reversed into order and phallic totality through “tighter” immigration laws and airport security, frozen bank accounts and homeland defense, “clean” missile strikes and spot commando raids. That the association of women with corruptibility and waste, mutilation and loss may have its historical roots in perceptions of childbirth (our “primal castration,” as Otto Rank called it)16 only sharpens the irony of recent reports that Afghanistan, thanks to America, is a nation “reborn.”17 Prosecuted from the air at a safe and god-like distance, this war is unencumbered by the messy details normally incident to warring/birthing bodies, as our sleek, state-of-the-art military technology (with the assistance of a compliant, self-censoring press)18 protects us from the knowledge of our hideous violence, turning injured bodies into game-like labels (“friendly fire,” “systems malfunction,” “collateral damage,” and so on).19 The rebirth of Afghanistan presupposes, of course, a similar rebirth of the U.S. itself, a similarly rationalized labornd delivery in which the trauma of birthgiving and the trauma of being born—the reality of the pain of September 11—is recuperated by a narrative of national unity. Morally reductive and logically circular, this narrative tells us, in our president’s words, “adversity introduces us to ourselves”—not to an understanding of the anger and despair of those whom our policies may have similarly afflicted, but to the courage and compassion that define “our national character,” the “love” and “deep commitment” that we have for “one another.”20 Marked by disavowal instead of comprehension, self-replication instead of real change, this narcissistic rebirth is no birth at all, but a wishful return to prenatal security, a desperate belief in the false insularity that preceded our fall into the clutches of the real. Indeed, the symbolic apotheosis of this fantasy of omnipotence may be the mythical tegument of the Missile Defense System,21 where the attempt to inscribe an impenetrable boundary between “us” and “them,” inside and outside, ignores the hard lesson of September 11—that the dangerous outside is already inside us, that globalization means vulnerability, the interdependence of “First” and “Third” Worlds. In her 17 November radio address to the nation, Laura Bush “kick[ed] off” (hurray!) what she immodestly billed as “a world-wide effort to focus on the brutality against women and children by the al-Qaeda terrorist network and…the Taliban.”22 “Long before the current war began,” said Mrs. Bush, “the Taliban and its terrorist allies were making the lives of children and women in Afghanistan miserable. Seventy percent of the Afghan people are malnourished. One in every four children won’t live past the age of five because health care is not available.” “The fight against terrorism,” she gravely concluded, “is also a fight for the rights and dignity of women.” Leaving aside the grotesque hypocrisy of this sudden concern over the “brutal oppression of women” by a regime that we ourselves had armed, trained, and funded (“freedom fighters,” we used to call them); and ignoring the First Lady’s tendentious suggestion that, in Afghanistan, poverty, illiteracy, and infant mortality are directly and exclusively attributable to the Taliban,23 I want to look closely at the trope of “women and children” as it serves competing claims to a just and moral war. For there is rarely a clearer instance of the oppression of women than in the discourse that pretends to revere and protect them—not so much as women but as nurturing mothers, the real or potential mothers of innocent children. Mrs. Bush’s radio address offers a potent mix of the time-honored ingredients of classical tragedy: terror, on the one hand, pity on the other. “Civilized people throughout the world are speaking out in horror—not only because our hearts break for the women and children in Afghanistan, but also because in Afghanistan, we see the world the terrorists would like to impose on the rest of us” (14 September). I have no quarrel with the idea presented here that sympathy and alarm are appropriate responses to the plight of Afghanistan’s women and children; I do think, however, that it is vital to understand exactly what interests are served by such a statement, particularly by its historically decontextualized affect. There can be little doubt that, as Mrs. Bush puts it (though the grammatical lapse here is startlingly revealing), “parents the world over love our children” (14 September). But what this broad and seemingly indisputable claim naturalizes is the inference that we are immediately asked to draw from it, that “our recent military gains in much of Afghanistan” (14 September) are likewise incontrovertibly just and humane. Of course, it was the president himself who, in earlier speeches, had finessed away the difference between punishment and self-defense, there too by recourse to the theme of parenthood: “We defend not only our precious freedoms, but also the freedom of people everywhere to live and raise their children free from fear” (7 October). “Americans are asking: What is expected of us? I ask you to live your lives, and hug your children” (20 September). The desire to retaliate is, it would seem, at one and the same time civilized24 and natural—as natural, necessary, and decent an impulse as the wish to protect one’s innocent young. Terrorists must be punished because they—unlike us!—fail to obey this natural law: “they make no distinction among military and civilians, including women and children” (20 September).25 What more powerful emblem, then, of the sacrifice that all Americans are called upon to make, than the police shield of a man who, on September 11, gave his life in the attempt to save civilians? The shield, says Bush, “was given to me by his mom…as a proud memorial to her son” (20 September). The strategic use of “mom” is deliberately infantilizing: it equates the son’s heroism with a childlike innocence, reminding us simultaneously of virtue’s vulnerability and of the necessity of defending it even unto death. In this way, too, the “mom”—the Mother, the repressed but threatening symbol of our earliest pain and loss—is herself reborn, redeemed by her pain, as a public allegory of patriotic pleasure. It is not, then, in giving birth that a mother becomes proud (or worthy of mention in a presidential speech) but in masochistically turning her personal grief into a state memorial to righteous revenge. In his call to national sacrifice, President Bush is careful to note that it is not just our sons whom he sends into battle, but “America’s sons and daughters”—”all the men and women in our military,” he says (7 October). But the sexism of Bush’s language is not significantly altered here by the lip service paid to female combatants, whose identities as women are forthwith subsumed to a litany of traditionally masculine tags: “every sailor, every soldier, every airman, every coastguardsman, every Marine” (7 October), Bush declares, must promptly answer “the calling of our time” (14 September), a calling that is based on “the commitment of our fathers” (14 September) and sanctioned higher up by the almighty Father (“May He comfort our own. And may He always guide our country” [14 September]). There is a chilling logic to the concluding anecdote of the presidential address of 7 October, in which President Bush notes having received “a touching letter…from a 4th-grade girl, with a father in the military: ‘As much as I don’t want my Dad to fight,’ she wrote, ‘I’m willing to give him to you’” (7 October). “This young girl,” the President exults, “knows what America is all about” (7 October). She does indeed, for, in giving up her father, she rehearses, precociously, her duty as a mother, anticipating the day she might give her sons to war. Having understood so well what America is all about, this little girl is a model of successful socialization; but it is not the naïveté of her “willing” social subjection that we are being asked to notice in this heartwarming story. What we are supposed to see in this patronizing tale is neither the cooptation of an innocent mind nor the cynical use of adult love of children as a pretext for killing many children abroad, but a nostalgic sign of our true, inner selves, our innate and spontaneous loyalty to the nation. Citizenship, on this view, originates in the womb, prior, somehow, to class and sexual hierarchy, to political affiliation or to racial-ethnic identity. Pure, unquestioning, and unquestionably authentic, this infantile citizen is who we “really” are, a primordial and unchanging national essence that we need to rediscover in this time of upheaval. Existing beyond sin and social contradiction, financial motivation and the will to power, this little girl stands in for the innocent fetus—that “supernatural sign,” as Lauren Berlant calls it, that utopian “cipher of…national identity”26 that must be saved, whatever the cost, protected, if need be, by homegrown terror. Like the white, upper-middle-class, heterosexual male whose belligerent agenda she is made to serve here, Bush’s “young girl,” and, behind her, the fetus, is a theological and ideological icon—a fetish—masquerading as a self-evident and universal value. What we might call the implied author of Bush’s narrative is an imaginary construct that exceeds the immediate text and permeates the discourse of our culture at large. Masculine-gendered and misogynistic, “pro-life” and yet pro-war, this invisibly normative narrative persona is equally available to women and men. Our women-in-uniform, Newsweek proudly reports, are assertive, competitive, masculinized warriors, Amazons who say pithy things like “Get out of my way.”27 Terrorists, on the other hand, are feminine-gendered,28 “cowards” who go after “soft,” not “hardened,” targets. “When we perceive a threat to locations we can protect,” says one impressively hard marine brigadier general, “we are there with increased vigilance and a really bad attitude.”29 What this kind of threat display is intended to do is not only to establish, once and for all, which country is in the position of global alpha-male, but also to restore to health and security the mutilated body of that reigning superpower. “Our wounds as a people,” says President Bush, “are recent and unhealed” (14 September). “I will not,” he insists, “forget this wound to our country” (20 September). And therein lies the magic of the fetish: we remember our wounds to heal our wounds; we keep our wounds open not the better to remember the similar wounds we inflict around the world, but the better to forget, belittle, or ignore them. The president’s refrain, “We will come together” (20 September), performs rhetorically this collective “healing,” transforming the incomplete body of the nation—a cracked and bleeding female form—into a sturdy and purposeful masculine agent. “[T]his country will define our times, not be defined by them” (20 September). With these words, too, the president turns the nation-state from the passive (female) recipient of a violating aggression into the virile progenitor of world solidarity. Healing requires a sex-change operation. This change does not merely compensate for feminine lack, shoring up an unsound and effluent surface; it fulfills, in the process, a hygienic function, purging the body politic of foreign impurities. The tight fit between normative gender stereotypes and the American fantasy of moral and physical purity is cogently summarized by a navy photograph showing antigay graffiti on one of the many bombs destined to fall on the Taliban “fags.”30 These bombs may initially, the president warns, cause the verminous or rodent-like terrorists to “burrow deeper into caves and other entrenched hiding places” (7 October).31 But terrorists, like weeds, will be mercilessly “rooted out”; like household pests, they will be exterminated as we “rid the world of evil” (14 September). Like metastasizing cancer cells or a deadly contagion from which, we suddenly realize, “we are not immune” (20 September), the “enemies of freedom” (20 September) are a subhuman life form, devoid, by definition, of the capacity to reason. Terrorists are not people with political grievances, and terrorism is not a symptom of anything but itself (“terrorism is terrorism,” quips President Bush); it is best treated, then, by radical surgery, by technologically antiseptic military “operations.” This kind of pathologizing, dehumanizing rhetoric facilitates escalation rather than understanding, sweeping ultimatum rather than “patient justice”: “These demands are not open to negotiation or discussion. … Every nation, every region, now has a decision to make. Either you are with us, or you are with the terrorists” (20 September). This is the language of “conflict dissolution,” which Wai Chee Dimock, in discussing the concept of rights, counterpoises as follows to “conflict resolution”: This conflict dissolution, the reduction of every conflict to a nonconflict, the reduction of every opposing claim to a nonclaim,…confers on the concept of rights not just a coercive authority but what appears to be a moral authority, making it ‘morally legitimate for one human being to determine by his choice how another should act.’ The triumph of rights is, above all, an epistemological triumph, one that confers reality on one claim, one body of evidence and one line of reasoning, over that of its opponent. And the undoing of the losing claim, the era-sure of its evidence and the dismissal of its reasoning, is perhaps the necessary basis for the authority granted the right holder, an authority which, to be seen as moral authority, must appear to issue not from the successful demolition of its opponent, but from a Reason immanent in the nature of things.32 Bush and Rumsfeld like to tout their clear-sighted, no-nonsense, “real-world” politics; yet, in their comic-book vision of global relations, America can rest “assured of the rightness of our cause, and confident of the victories to come” (20 September) because—conveniently enough, for the world’s remaining superpower—superior reasoning and superior virtue are entirely synonymous with superior strength. On this view, people lose wars not because they have inferior military capability and not because they reach, more quickly than their opponents, their particular threshold of tolerance for pain,33 but because they lack reason and courage, morality and morale.34 Courage, as Susan Sontag notes, is “a morally neutral virtue”;35 but, by the terms of America’s zero-sum adversarial economy, to lose a war is not only to concede defeat; it is to forfeit all right to legal and moral grievance and, along with that right, any claim to “deserve” understanding. There is violence, then, and considerable injustice, in our wartime language of rights and reason. It is a violence committed in the name of absolutes, truths deemed freestanding, self-adequating, and objective. There is violence and injustice in our president’s refiguring of feminine lack as manly plenitude, in his “chivalrous” appropriation of the experience of women and children as a pretext for his bloody military campaign, and there is, it must be said, violence and injustice in Bush’s political hijacking of September 11’s victims—his presumptuous translation of their shattered lives and bodies into the metaphysical logos of national unity. Whether they happen to like it or not, the victims’ families have had their personal tragedy interpreted for them by the makers of public opinion.36 Whatever their nationality or religious belief, their gender identity or political allegiance, the dead have been spoken for—officiously “redeemed”—by a purportedly apolitical, panhuman discourse, a discourse that extols freedom, equality, and compassion while insidiously exploiting social and sexual phobias. The point here is not that Bush is “wrong” and bin Laden is “right.” Bin Laden’s rhetoric of justice is similarly retributive; similarly, if more overtly, macho and gynophobic; similarly rife with metaphors of animalism and sickness.37 And it is, above all, similarly marked by a resolutely selective capacity for empathy. Seeing this might have led us to reflect on history’s ironies. Instead of proclaiming irony dead after September 11, we might have felt more keenly our nation’s contradictions.38 We might have recognized that a self-questioning irony is not incompatible with serious issues, that it is the overweening seriousness of a chauvinistic sublime that motivates the endless spiral of like-for-like violence. Are the changes we have brought about in Afghanistan good ones? I want to say that only time will tell. But by what universal standard, what objective calculus of The Good, will this allegorical persona, Time, enlighten us? Wars, after all, are never definitively won or lost; that is, the “loser” is never utterly incapacitated, absolutely incapable of renewing military hostilities.39 And just as the outcome of any particular war is never really incontestable militarily or politically, so the human and social effects of war cannot be contained within neatly defined temporal and geographic boundaries.40 Our leaders have been so busy speculating about fresh military campaigns “after Afghanistan” (directed against the arbitrarily conceived “Axis of Evil”) that they seem not to have noticed the many holes in their alleged victory—the elusiveness of bin Laden, the resilience of Taliban and Al Qaeda forces in eastern Afghanistan, the continued feuding among Afghan warlords, the risk of political instability in Pakistan, the widespread popular resentment over civilian casualties, and the diffuseness, mobility, and infinite regeneracy of a transnational enemy vaguely defined as “terrorism.” To return, with Nietzsche, to the language of exchange value: has our intervention in Afghanistan been “worth” the “cost” in, say, the lives of innocent Afghan civilians, or the restriction of civil liberties both at home and abroad,41 or in the growing international uneasiness over our gunboat diplomacy? I do not pretend to have answers to these questions, but, in the current political climate, asking them is a task as vital as it is difficult. Bush asserted plaintively, in a news conference on 11 October, “we are a nation that appreciates the value of life.” But that is precisely the problem: what is the value of life (and of whose life, exactly) for our “peaceful,” “generous,” and “compassionate” nation?42 By what equation of justice does one weigh killing, as a means, against its real or perceived political end?

This world view makes nuclear conflict and warfare inevitable
Our Alternative is too vote negative to embrace feminist separatism
Weedon 1999
Chris, the Chair of the Centre for Critical and Cultural Theory at Cardiff University, Feminism, theory, and the politics of difference, p. 90-93
In the order of reason which has governed Western thought since the rise of Ancient Greek philosophy, feminine otherness is denied and reconstituted as a male-defined otherness. This results in the denial of subjectivity to potentially non-male-defined women. A maternal feminine subjectivity, were it to be realized, would enable women to step outside of patriarchal definitions of the feminine and become subjects in their own right. Whereas the unconscious in Freud and Lacan lays claim to fixed universal status, for Irigaray its actual form and content is a product of history. Thus, however patriarchal the symbolic order may be in Lacan, it is open to change. The question is how this change might be brought about. For Irigaray, the key to change is the development of a female imaginary. This can only be achieved under patriarchy in a fragmented way, as what she terms the excess that is realized in margins of the dominant culture. The move towards a female imaginary would also entail the transformation of the symbolic, since the relationship between the two is one of mutual shaping. This would enable women to assume subjectivity in their own right. Although, for Irigaray, the imaginary and the symbolic are both historical and changeable, this does not mean that, after thousands of years of repression and exclusion, change is easy. In a move not unlike that of ecofeminists, Irigaray suggests that the symbolic order, men and masculinity are shaped by patriarchy in ways which are immensely problematic not just for women but also for the future of the planet. The apparently objective, gender-neutral discourses of science and philosophy — the discourses of a male subject — have led to the threat of global nuclear destruction. In An Ethics of Sexual Difference (1993; original 1984), Irigaray suggests that the patriarchal male subject is himself shaped by the loss of the maternal feminine which motivates a desire for mastery: Man's self-affect depends on the woman who has given him being and birth, who has born/e him, enveloped him, warmed him, fed him. Love of self would seemingly take the form of a long return to and through the other. A unique female other, who is forever lost and must be sought in many others, an infinite number of others. The distance for this return can be conquered by the transcendence of God. The (female) other who is sought and cherished may be assimilated to the unique god. The (female) other is mingled or confused with God or the gods. (Irigaray 1993: 60-1; original 1984) Irigaray takes this theme further in Thinking the Difference: For a Peaceful Revolution (1994; original 1989) when she suggests that the desire for godlike mastery and transcendence has dire consequences for the world: Huge amounts of capital are allocated to the development of death machines in order to ensure peace, we are told. This warlike method of organising society is not self-evident. It has its m origin in patriarchy. It has a sex. But the age of technology has given weapons of war a power that exceeds the conflicts and risks taken among patriarchs. Women, children, all living things, including elemental matter, are drawn into the maelstrom. And death and destruction cannot be associated solely with war. They are part of the physical and mental aggression to which we are constantly subjected. What we need is an overall cultural transformation. Mankind [le peuple des homines] wages war everywhere all the time with a perfectly clear conscience. Mankind is traditionally carnivorous, sometimes cannibalistic. So men must eat to kill, must increase their domination of nature in order to live or to survive, must seek on the most distant stars what no longer exists here, must defend by any means the small patch of land they are exploiting here or over there. Men always go further, exploit further, seize more, without really knowing where they are going. Men seek what they think they need without considering who they are and how their identity is defined by what they do. To overcome this ignorance, I think that mankind needs those who are persons in their own right to help them understand and find their limits. Only women can play this role. Women are not genuinely responsible subjects in the patriarchal community. That is why it may be possible for them to interpret this culture in which they have less involvement and fewer interests than do men, and of which they are not themselves products to the point where they have been blinded by it. Given their relative exclusion from society, women may, from their outside perspective, reflect back a more objective image of society than can men. (Irigaray 1994: 4—5; original 1989) The destructive force of the patriarchal symbolic order makes all the more pressing Irigaray's project of creating a female imaginary and symbolic, specific to women, which might in its turn transform the male-defined symbolic order in the West, in which women figure only as lesser men. In this process, separatism becomes a strategy in the struggle for a nonpatriarchal society in which sexual difference is both voiced and valued: Let women tacitly go on strike, avoid men long enough to learn to defend their desire notably by their speech, let them discover the love of other women protected from that imperious choice of men which puts them in a position of rival goods, let them forge a social status which demands recognition, let them earn their living in order to leave behind their condition of prostitute — these are certainly indispensable steps in their effort to escape their proletarianization on the trade market. But if their goal is to reverse the existing order - even if that were possible - history would simply repeat itself and return to phallocratism, where neither women's sex, their imaginary, nor their language can exist. (1994: 106; original 1989)



==2NC COIN Gender Link== 

Also, the aff is one huge mask the idea that we can end COIN but switch to CT forecloses any thought that attempts to escape US Imperialism, this is a pretext for all violence and future interventions
Everest 9 (Larry, “Behind the “Debate” Over Afghanistan: Suffering, Death, and the Needs of Empire” http://revcom.us/a/180/Afghanistan_Debate-en.html//Donnie)//
//In this context, a major debate has emerged in the White House and the ruling class. The U.S. commanding general in Afghanistan is calling for as many as 80,000 more troops. At the same time, other ruling class forces like Vice President Biden are reported to oppose sending more troops to Afghanistan. While the debate is out in the open, the real terms of it are not. The reality is that this debate has nothing to do with ending the war in Afghanistan. On BOTH sides, and in all shades in between, the argument is over HOW to advance U.S. strategic interests. Any discussion of the U.S. pulling out of Afghanistan altogether is being ruled out of order. And the results, whichever side wins out, are going to bring more misery and death to the people who live in this region of the world. People are being told to choose between one of the two sides in this debate. But this is a “debate” over how to best project and defend the interests of the U.S. empire. The actual interests of the people—of the region, and the world (including people in this country), lie completely outside those terms. There is another choice...a choice which corresponds to the interests of the vast majority of people on the planet. It is standing up to and against any further U.S. action in that region of the world, and in that way, helping bring onto the world stage another way—a force opposed to both U.S. imperialism and Islamic fundamentalism. First, this is not a debate between “hawks” and “doves,” between those who want more war and those who want less (or no) war. McChrystal and his supporters argue that the situation demands more U.S. troops—up to 80,000—on top of the 68,000 already there. They want to pursue a new counter-insurgency strategy of clearing the Taliban from territory it controls, and holding those areas and preventing attacks, while new governing structures can be built up. And they think this must be done quickly: “Failure to gain the initiative and reverse insurgent momentum in the near-term (next 12 months)—while Afghan security capacity matures—risks an outcome where defeating the insurgency is no longer possible,” McChrystal’s report states. Others in and outside the administration (reportedly including Biden) agree on the need to maintain current U.S. troop levels to prevent a Taliban victory and destroy the Jihadist forces, but oppose a massive troop buildup. Given the Taliban’s roots among the people in Afghanistan and the lack of credibility of the Karzai regime, they feel that completely defeating the Taliban and building a stable central state is either impossible or far too costly economically, politically and militarily. But more, they argue the emphasis should be to launch more attacks on Al Qaeda (which is hiding out in Pakistan), mainly by drones and missiles, and making the stabilization of Pakistan—whose state some feel is in danger of collapse—the U.S.’s top strategic concern. They see Al Qaeda and the “extremist fundamentalists” as the main problem, and propose that some of the “more moderate” Taliban could be split off and integrated into a U.S.-dominated regime. Rather than spreading U.S. troops around the country to defeat the Taliban, they say the U.S. should put more effort into training the Afghan troops to back up and secure the regime installed by the U.S. A big troop buildup, they argue, could backfire—generating even more opposition to the U.S., while being extremely costly, with little chance of succeeding in creating a legitimate and stable pro-U.S. Afghan government. And the problem they see is that all this could take the U.S. focus off Pakistan, where they say it needs to be, overstretch the U.S. military, and weaken U.S. imperialism globally and in the region. In short, McChrystal’s “option A” calls for more death and destruction wreaked on the Afghan people from the ground, along with more forcefully trying to control life in Afghanistan (including at the village level), and strengthening the Afghan state, through economic aid, bolstering its military and police and other measures. Biden’s “option B” would bring more death and destruction from the air, escalate the expansion of the war into Pakistan, strengthen the reactionary Afghan army and police, while leaving the ma-jority of Afghans (who live in the countryside) to the mercies of the Taliban and local warlords. So this debate isn’t over ending the war vs. continuing it, or how to best improve or save Afghan lives. Neither side questions America’s right to dominate and decide the future of the people in this region of the world or any other. It’s over how to best wage the war to achieve U.S. imperial objectives.//

//This also makes extinction inevitable and comparatively outweighs your aff//
//Everest 9 (Larry, “Behind the “Debate” Over Afghanistan: Suffering, Death, and the Needs of Empire” http://revcom.us/a/180/Afghanistan_Debate-en.html//Donnie)
Continuing U.S. domination of this country also means empowering reactionary warlords, religious figures, tribal chiefs, and power brokers who enforce religious fundamentalism and patriarchy. After eight years of U.S. occupation, 87 percent of Afghan women suffer abuse in their homes, honor killings and rape are on the rise, and the vast majority of women remain enslaved in their homes—under the control of male relatives. Meanwhile, an Afghan woman dies in childbirth every 30 minutes. “The human rights situation in Afghanistan is getting worse not better,” one UN official re-cently declared. The U.S. can and will bring nothing good in Afghanistan. Its actions will bring down increased suffering and misery to the Afghan people, and with every village that is bombed, with every Afghani who is tortured, Islamic fundamentalism will be fueled. And the dynamic goes on and gets worse. Supporting any ongoing U.S. occupation—whether the McChyrstal plan or what Biden is proposing—is immoral and wrong. It does great harm to the people. This is true not only because of what the U.S. has done and will do in Afghanistan, but because legitimizing the Afghan war and occupation also legitimizes U.S. military interventions and the U.S. empire overall. The U.S. is a far, far greater danger to the planet than the Taliban—which does not have thousands of nuclear warheads and a massive, globe-straddling military machine, does not have a stranglehold on the global economy that enforces hunger on a billion people, and is not the force driving global environmental destruction. And imperialism is primarily what has driven the revival and spread of reactionary Islamic fundamentalism. Supporting either one strengthens both, when what the world really needs is to bring forward a whole other way. People here do have an enormous responsibility to the people of Afghanistan—and the world—to oppose the crimes of U.S. imperialism. The rulers of this country should be held accountable for their ongoing crimes against the people of Afghanistan and the whole region by building mass political resistance against their wars of empire, breaking their “America first” ideological hold on people, and politically and ideologically weakening the U.S.’s ability to maraud around the world—and continue to wage war in Afghanistan.


==1NC South Korea Gender K== 

Maximalist strategies presume a one neutral subject empty of justice
Moon 2007
Katharine H. S., Resurrecting Prostitutes and Overturning Treaties: Gender Politics in the “Anti-American” Movement in South Korea, The Journal of Asian Studies Vol. 66, No. 1 (February) 2007: 129–157, http://www.wellesley.edu/Polisci/KMoon/JAS66-1.pdf
Those who espouse maximalist strategies regarding the U.S. troops tend to be male. They disparage and disregard calls by some female activists to focus attention on individual human suffering, particularly that of camptown women who live with day-to-day forms of exploitation, social marginalization, and violence. Cho˘ ng Yujin, cofounder and former leader of the National Campaign, recounts conversations and debates with male activist critics of the United States who argue that withdrawal is the “fundamental” issue and that rape, murder, sexual exploitation, and the abandonment of Amerasian children are “minor, personal” issues. They charge that the National Campaign is merely reformist, that it has neglected to put national reunification first and lead the cause for withdrawal. They also blame such reformism and the assertion of gender and sex issues for causing a split in the collective movement (Cho˘ng 2000a, 228–31).22 Under such masculine nationalism, women’s suffering becomes a symbolic currency that is detached from their actual lives and needs. Cho˘ng, a longtime activist who started out at My Sister’s Place, passionately criticizes the male tendency to create a pecking order among activist causes, ranking issues such as the withdrawal of troops and national reunification at the top and putting individual human rights at the bottom (Cho˘ ng 2000a, 231; 2000b, 94). In her written critique, Cho˘ng offers a biting challenge to those who value the withdrawal of U.S. troops above all else: With no clarity about the timetable and method of a withdrawal, what are individuals who suffer the consequences of U.S. military misconduct supposed to do? Does it mean that only the imperialist U.S. military and the Korean government that shields it are to blame for the crimes (by the U.S.) that occur until the time of withdrawal? And that as long as progressive activists keep denouncing the U.S. military, they bear no responsibility [for allowing crimes to continue]? (Cho˘ng 2000a, 233; author’s translation). Here, she places moral and political responsibility for creating conditions that engender crimes by U.S. troops against Korean civilians not only on the U.S. and Korean authorities but also on activists who disregard and disparage the human rights of camptown residents, especially the prostitute population. According to Cho˘ng, of all the concerns raised by anti-troop CSOs during the 1990s, those regarding camptown women’s rights and welfare encountered the most resistance among the predominantly male-led leadership. Male leaders revealed their sexist bias, blaming kijich’on women for “volunteering” to consort with U.S. soldiers and thereby inviting danger upon themselves. They questioned the need for society to protect such “impure” women, even when they were the victims of crimes, and accepted the lack of societal attention to their needs as inevitable (Cho˘ng 2000b, 106). Kim Hyunsun, head of the Saewoomtuh counseling center and a leading figure in the kijich’on advo-cacy movement, believes that such moralistic and dualistic thinking abets the tendency among even progressive human rights activists to categorize individuals as “deserving of human rights protection,” “deserving less protection,” or “deserving no protection” (H. Kim 2001). The maximalist tendency among CSOs and the nationalist inclination to subsume women’s bodies and sexuality as collective property go hand in hand with the anti-troop movement. Because “fundamental,” collective concerns such as reunification and national sovereignty rank at the top of the masculinist agenda, private, “individual” concerns are considered important only if they are useful for advancing the former. Cho˘ng (2000b) condemns this kind of “instrumentalization” (toguhwa) of individual and human rights among progressive activists as politically hypocritical and morally cruel. She condemns what some of her male colleagues have uttered—that the larger the number of victims (of U. S. servicemen), the more power for the nationalist cause (2000b, 92, 95)—and ultimately reveals the emptiness of the nationalist promise for women: Whether it is the nationalism of the right or the left, “nation” is not an inclusive concept. In both instances, women are excluded (2000b, 96; telephone interview with the author, Seoul, May 2002). Masculinist nationalism is manifested in yet another way in the activism against U.S. troops: the question of who is the legitimate actor for the nation. Again, Cho˘ng notes, based on her extensive movement experience, that her male colleagues repeatedly emphasize that in activism concerning the nation and national sovereignty, men should be the leaders. This is their way of criticizing her organization, the National Campaign, for its all-female leadership. The gender-biased message is that men should be taking on the “important work on behalf of the nation” and that an organization run by women cannot be maximally effective in the nationalist cause (2000b, 99–100). A tendency among nationalist (and internationalist) movements to subsume and deligitimate expressly feminist or women-centered interests has long existed in Korea and elsewhere.23 Both the anticolonial independence movement and the socialist movement of the 1920s and 1930s exhibited such tendencies despite their progressive rhetoric about the emancipation of women. Kenneth Wells (1999), for example, discusses the way in which male nationalist and socialist leaders regarded the Ku˘ nuhoe, a socialist-nationalist women’s organization that was active from 1927 to 1931, as a subsidiary movement and the way in which female leaders themselves came to uphold the view that national liberation was the “fundamental” issue rather than gender relations or specific women’s issues. Women working for nationalist objectives “were hindered in their pursuit of an independent agenda by lack of support from other women, hostility from Korean men, the nationalists’ stranglehold on the debate, and the subsumption of women’s liberation under the socialist agenda” (Wells 1999, 193). Feminist scholars of Korean history and society have remarked on the pattern of “androcentric citizenship” (S. Moon 2002) that continues to marginalize or dismiss women-centered standpoints and agendas at both the state and societal levels. Chungmoo Choi notes that Korea’s colonial and anticolonial experiences gave rise to a national subjectivity “[that] has been exclusively a male subjectivity” (1998, 14). In critiquing the masculinist political culture of Korea’s military authoritarianism after independence, Seungsook Moon describes how official or state nationalism under Park Chung Hee emphasized the androcentric national subject as citizen-soldier, with a stronger “militaristic tint” during the 1970s as military authoritarian rule became more severe (S. Moon 2000, 143–44). The progressive democracy movement of the 1980s was no different, as Insook Kwon (2000) cogently describes gender politics within the student movement as male-dominated and masculinist in its thinking and organizing. During the same period, when the Korean Women’s Association United joined the National Federation of Nationalistic and Democratic Movements, the “center of all democratization and reunification movements” (Chung 1997, 28), in 1989, women faced familiar criticism from the predominantly male organizations for being “passive and formal.” For the men, real politics was assumed to take place on the streets through demonstrations and confrontations with the government rather than by gradually improving the rights and interests that the women were promoting through legislation and system reform. Despite the persistence of such masculinist thinking and strategizing, today, there is more room in the political arena for gender-specific concerns than was the case during the early twentieth century or during the predemocratic 1980s. For one, men and masculinist politics do not have a stranglehold on the anti-American or nationalist debate. This movement is neither ideologically dogmatic nor violence prone. It does not seek to revolutionize or fundamentally change Korean society, and it is a coalition movement that serves as an umbrella or clearinghouse for many types of political, social, and economic grievances and criticisms (K. Moon 2003). By definition and structure, it cannot claim to be one thing or another for a significant period of time. Rather, its very fluidity—in personnel, leadership, agenda priorities, goals, tactics, and interdependent relationships between the center and the localities—has allowed the gender debates to surface. In addition, because the anti-American or nationalist movement is part and parcel of the process of democratic deepening, gender, along with the environment, regional autonomy, and other issues, is one of many legitimate public interests. As a consequence, women and women-specific issues have not been purged from the movement but rather have found varied ways to articulate and activate their concerns. The challenge today is more a matter of political contestation and less a matter of legitimacy. FROM MOVEMENT POLITICS TO POL-ICY POSITIONS In policy terms, “important work on behalf of the nation” has been conceptualized bilaterally as Korea versus the United States. Since the mid-1990s, the specific task for activists has been to push for the revision of the SOFA, which formally outlines both governments’ terms, duties, and obligations for the stationing of U.S. troops in Korea. The coalition movement for the revision of the SOFA, the People’s Action to Reform the SOFA (PAR-SOFA), has insisted that the Korean government’s jurisdictional and legal authority over alleged criminal cases involving U.S. troops be strengthened, especially in serious cases such as murder and rape. The PAR-SOFA efforts have included kijich’on women and children’s rights and welfare, but in the end, gender-specific issues have not yet gained prominence. Some women’s organizations, including Saewoomtuh, tried to assert kijich’on women and children’s interests in the CSO debates as late as July 2000, just before the last round of SOFA negotiations between Korea and the United States was about to take place (Saewoomtuh 2000). Noting that the public and anti-troop activists were all overlooking the very population that has been most physically and historically affected by American servicemen’s behavior—kijich’on women—they criticized not only the U.S. military but also the prejudice and ignorance within Korean society toward these women. They endorsed SOFA provisions that would give the Koreans greater power over troop-related crime cases, especially the investigation of cases involving Korean civilians, and demanded the incorporation of protections for camptown women and children: job training and funding of social welfare programs for kijich’on women; the elimination of government-sponsored examinations for sexually transmitted diseases, which are mandated for all women working in camptown bars and clubs; financial support from the U.S. authorities for the living and educational costs of Amerasian children in Korea who have been abandoned by their American fathers; the incorporation of the needs of women and Amerasian children into the economic development plans of local towns following any future U.S. troop withdrawal or base consolidation; the enforcement of HIV/AIDS tests for U.S. service personnel in Korea; and sexual violence and crime prevention-training programs for U.S. troops (Saewoomtuh 2000; PAR-SOFA 2000; Yi 2000).24 Unlike most of the PAR-SOFA activists, however, they were emphatic that the SOFA is neither the sole source of the kijich’on women’s problems nor the answer to them. These women leaders called for legal and institutional accountability by both the U.S. and Korean authorities to recognize and protect women’s human rights (Saewoomtuh 2000; Yi 2000).



This makes nuclear war inevitable
Weedon 1999
Chris, the Chair of the Centre for Critical and Cultural Theory at Cardiff University, Feminism, theory, and the politics of difference, p. 90-93
In the order of reason which has governed Western thought since the rise of Ancient Greek philosophy, feminine otherness is denied and reconstituted as a male-defined otherness. This results in the denial of subjectivity to potentially non-male-defined women. A maternal feminine subjectivity, were it to be realized, would enable women to step outside of patriarchal definitions of the feminine and become subjects in their own right. Whereas the unconscious in Freud and Lacan lays claim to fixed universal status, for Irigaray its actual form and content is a product of history. Thus, however patriarchal the symbolic order may be in Lacan, it is open to change. The question is how this change might be brought about. For Irigaray, the key to change is the development of a female imaginary. This can only be achieved under patriarchy in a fragmented way, as what she terms the excess that is realized in margins of the dominant culture. The move towards a female imaginary would also entail the transformation of the symbolic, since the relationship between the two is one of mutual shaping. This would enable women to assume subjectivity in their own right. Although, for Irigaray, the imaginary and the symbolic are both historical and changeable, this does not mean that, after thousands of years of repression and exclusion, change is easy. In a move not unlike that of ecofeminists, Irigaray suggests that the symbolic order, men and masculinity are shaped by patriarchy in ways which are immensely problematic not just for women but also for the future of the planet. The apparently objective, gender-neutral discourses of science and philosophy — the discourses of a male subject — have led to the threat of global nuclear destruction. In An Ethics of Sexual Difference (1993; original 1984), Irigaray suggests that the patriarchal male subject is himself shaped by the loss of the maternal feminine which motivates a desire for mastery: Man's self-affect depends on the woman who has given him being and birth, who has born/e him, enveloped him, warmed him, fed him. Love of self would seemingly take the form of a long return to and through the other. A unique female other, who is forever lost and must be sought in many others, an infinite number of others. The distance for this return can be conquered by the transcendence of God. The (female) other who is sought and cherished may be assimilated to the unique god. The (female) other is mingled or confused with God or the gods. (Irigaray 1993: 60-1; original 1984) Irigaray takes this theme further in Thinking the Difference: For a Peaceful Revolution (1994; original 1989) when she suggests that the desire for godlike mastery and transcendence has dire consequences for the world: Huge amounts of capital are allocated to the development of death machines in order to ensure peace, we are told. This warlike method of organising society is not self-evident. It has its m origin in patriarchy. It has a sex. But the age of technology has given weapons of war a power that exceeds the conflicts and risks taken among patriarchs. Women, children, all living things, including elemental matter, are drawn into the maelstrom. And death and destruction cannot be associated solely with war. They are part of the physical and mental aggression to which we are constantly subjected. What we need is an overall cultural transformation. Mankind [le peuple des homines] wages war everywhere all the time with a perfectly clear conscience. Mankind is traditionally carnivorous, sometimes cannibalistic. So men must eat to kill, must increase their domination of nature in order to live or to survive, must seek on the most distant stars what no longer exists here, must defend by any means the small patch of land they are exploiting here or over there. Men always go further, exploit further, seize more, without really knowing where they are going. Men seek what they think they need without considering who they are and how their identity is defined by what they do. To overcome this ignorance, I think that mankind needs those who are persons in their own right to help them understand and find their limits. Only women can play this role. Women are not genuinely responsible subjects in the patriarchal community. That is why it may be possible for them to interpret this culture in which they have less involvement and fewer interests than do men, and of which they are not themselves products to the point where they have been blinded by it. Given their relative exclusion from society, women may, from their outside perspective, reflect back a more objective image of society than can men. (Irigaray 1994: 4—5; original 1989) The destructive force of the patriarchal symbolic order makes all the more pressing Irigaray's project of creating a female imaginary and symbolic, specific to women, which might in its turn transform the male-defined symbolic order in the West, in which women figure only as lesser men. In this process, separatism becomes a strategy in the struggle for a nonpatriarchal society in which sexual difference is both voiced and valued: Let women tacitly go on strike, avoid men long enough to learn to defend their desire notably by their speech, let them discover the love of other women protected from that imperious choice of men which puts them in a position of rival goods, let them forge a social status which demands recognition, let them earn their living in order to leave behind their condition of prostitute — these are certainly indispensable steps in their effort to escape their proletarianization on the trade market. But if their goal is to reverse the existing order - even if that were possible - history would simply repeat itself and return to phallocratism, where neither women's sex, their imaginary, nor their language can exist. (1994: 106; original 1989)



==2NC Camptown Link== 

Lee 2006 Na Young, Ph.D. Department of Women’s Studies, University of Maryland, THE CONSTRUCTION OF U.S. CAMPTOWN PROSTITUTION IN SOUTH KOREA: TRANS/FORMATION AND RESISTANCE, http://drum.lib.umd.edu/bitstream/1903/4162/1/umi-umd-3959.pdf
Similarly, the role of the U.S military in producing and maintaining camptown prostitution has been examined in a considerable volume of feminist work (Block and Thistlethwaite1996; Kirk & Okazawa-Rey 2000; Okazawa-Rey 1997; Sturdevant 2000; Sturdevant & Stoltzfus 1992). Feminists have questioned the relationship between prostitution and the policies that drive militarism, analyzing militarization’s effects on local women and children and the negative role of U.S. military bases around the world. Despite these feminist scholars’ contributions to illuminating the global situation of American military occupation, the thriving sex industries that have sprung up around U.S. military bases in many countries, and the oppressive nature of camptown prostitution, their work has yet to go beyond the notion of U.S. militarism and imperialism as the main actor or agent in the construction of camptown prostitution and, consequently, the target problem to be solved. Stressing the asymmetry of interstate relationships seriously neglects the symbiotic relationships between the U.S. and local governments in perpetuating androcentric ideologies. Moreover, the highlighting of local women as helpless victims of the U.S. military overshadows the history of women’s resistance to it. Not going beyond the causal linkage between military prowess and violence toward women, this line of thought replicates the master/subject model of power that reproduces women’s identities as subordinate. The exaggerated role of the U.S. is evident in the argument that “the culture of camptowns, prostitution as a way of life, and sex tourism has nothing to do with Korean culture” (Cumings 1992, 174). Such an argument focuses on the ongoing dimension of camptown prostitution, emphasizing “the continuous subordination of one female generation after another to the sexual servicing of American males” (169). The theoretical account is problematic in that it does not see camptown prostitution as having been inextricably intertwined with Korea’s economy, society, and national security. It also ignores the direct and indirect cooperation of the Korean government in sustaining and transforming the kijich’on over time. It bypasses the historicity of camptown prostitution, which has been an integral part of international tourism as well as domestic prostitution, and of catering to the sexual desire of Others. In this line of thought, additionally, there is no room for the reality that middle- and working-class Korean women who, for various reasons, were dependent on American solders for their livelihoods have been substituted in recent years by foreign women, who attempt to find alternative living opportunities in Korea when prospects in their own countries are bleak.








=== === 
Gender 1NC- Greenhill RR
=== === 












Security discourse is predicated upon assumptions of the world that are hypermasculine—the affs discourse paints men as rational and women as irrational and evil—this culminates in patriarchy


Wilcox 3 **(Lauren Wilcox, Macalester CollegeSecurity Masculinity: The Gender-Security Nexus http://www.anselm.edu/NR/rdonlyres/584EAD25-FDAD-484B-AFA9-F8709DBB41FD/1242/Article20033.pdf)**


The process … this new paradigm..97




Try or die neg—environmental destruction and war are inevitable under patriarchy, that guarantees extinction

Warren and Cady 96 **Professor @ Macalester U 96 (Karen,., and Duane, Professor @ Hamline, Bringing peace home: feminism, violence, and nature, 1996, p.12-13)**

Operationalized, the evidence … and global contexts.




Reject the aff—questioning the system they uphold is necessary to break down patriarchy in IR

Wibben 4 **(ANNICK T.R. WIBBEN Rockefeller Humanities Fellow Human Security**

NCRW and CUNY Graduate Center Feminist International Relations: Old Debates and New Directions http://www.watsoninstitute.org/bjwa/archive/10.2/Feminist%20Theory/Wibben.pdf)

To locate feminisms … relations with women.



Enframing is key-it’s not about the action the aff takes but why they justify it—the lens the aff looks through is a self-fulfilling prophecy and shape policy making

Peterson **Professor in the School of Government and Public Policy University of Arizona & Runyan Professor and former Head, Department of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, University of Cincinnati 19**99 **V. Spike & Anne Sisson Global Gender Issues Page 1-2**








Whenever we study a topic, we do so through a lens that necessarily focuses our attention in particular ways.......


At the same time, the world we live in ("reality") shapes which lenses are available to us, what we see through them, and the likelihood of our using them in particular contexts.








=== === 
AT Perm Do both
=== === 
We say the perm severs 1ac reps and that is a reason to reject the perm


also
**2. The 1AC’s initial framework means the perm fails—it adds women to a system that they weren’t meant to be in—this makes patriarchy inevitable**

Peterson, pol sci prof, 4—associate professor in the Department of Political Science with courtesy appointments in Women’s Studies, Comparative Cultural and Literary Studies, and International Studies at the University of Arizona (V Spike, Feminist Theories Within, Invisible To, and Beyond IR, Winter/Spring 2004//,// [[http://www.watsoninstitute.org/bjwa/archive/10.2/Feminist%20Theory/Peterson.pdf|//http://www.watsoninstitute.org/bjwa/archive/10.2/Feminist%20Theory/Peterson.pdf//]]
**At the same time, these observations appear to have little impact on ‘IR theory’ and are certainly not transforming it………………. This rethinking draws us into the third overlapping project of the continuum: reconstructing theory.**


**3.The perm fails—total transformation of structure is needed or else we remain trapped in a patriarchal knowledge system**
**Wibben 4**
**(ANNICK T.R. WIBBEN Rockefeller Humanities Fellow Human Security**
**NCRW and CUNY Graduate Center Feminist International Relations: Old Debates and New Directions http://www.watsoninstitute.org/bjwa/archive/10.2/Feminist%20Theory/Wibben.pdf)**

**Feminists understand that in order to produce genuine change it is necessary to challenge not only the content of a particular narrative,**
but also its structure**. ……………………..It disturbs because it denies the possibility of traditional cumulative knowledge and demands that scholars continually question and revise their own assumptions—as Enloe would put it, that they remain curious**






The 1AC did not evaluate gender—this makes oppression inevitable—their compromise just leads to more oppression later—this ev is in context of reducing military presence



Ni Aolain 9





[End Page 1083]
integrating defense reform, police reform, and judicial sector reform under an integrated umbrella—instigating "a holistic approach to the provision of security, integrating all the relevant institutions and their connections"—**but gender or other marginal voices are not integrated in any way**

//**.**//ecurity sector reform in this holistic model could actually serve to perpetuate and extend structural patriarchies rather then unpick and replace them.





**The perm is just a dodge of the link—an attempt to divorce themselves from responsibility of their discourse, methodology and oppression. Trying to divorce themselves from responsibility is an attempt to justify ongoing violence against women—this functions as an independent disad to the perm**



**Hawthorne 8**
(Susan HawthorneUniversity of MelbourneResponsibility: Personal and Globalhttp: thealtitudejournal.files.wordpress.com/2008/07/36.pdf)
The scene is a domestic setting, home to a woman and a man
. The woman has been beaten and is slumped in the corner of the room with a black eye and possibly a stab wound. ……………………Attitudinal shift, as I have argued elsewhere,4 **is a very stable form of power, and it is one that could be used to change masculine behaviour**. For if women are capable of change, so are men.
Foot noting disad—the perm just tacks women on-that is dis empowering
Jones professor of international studies at the Center for Research and Teaching in Economics (CIDE) in Mexico City 1996 Adam Review of International Studies Cambridge Journals Online d/a 7/12/10
Christine **Sylvester**'s 1994 work Feminist Theory and International Relations in a Postmodern Era angrily **rejects the notion that feminist theory ought to be playing essentially a supplementary role.** …………………….**There is**, in this admonition, **little sense that feminists can set an agenda for ourselves and for IR and really no sense that we may want to interface differently and rewrite-repaint-recook the field rather than join it**.39




===Security K=== 
Links very debate by debate, but we always read these two cards. We've gone for this once and read it twice.

This securitizing, apocalyptic representations ensures biopolitical control over populations – genocide becomes ongoing and extinction inevitable
Coviello 2K - Assistant Professor of English @ Bowdoin College [Peter, "Apocalypse from Now On."Rufus]
Apocalypse, as I …be done without.

The alternative is to reject the Affirmative’s security discourse – the act of situating ourselves against security through debate is the only way to be emancipated from the deep entrenchment of security in our minds and society
Neocleous 08, Mark Professor of the Critique of Political Economy at Brunel University, (“Critique of Security”, McGill-Queen’s University, pp. 184-186, Published 2008//Rufus)//
//The only way out …return the gift.143//
===2NC Problem Solving/Fiat Bad/AT Framework=== 
R
ole-playing is bad—it disempowers us, destroying agency and making wars inevitable.
Susanne Kappeler, Associate professor at al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior. 1995. pg 10-11.
‘We are the war’ …war and violence

Serial Policy failure
Dillon and Reid Michael and Julian, Global Governance, Liberal Peace, and Complex Emergency. By: Dillon, Michael, Reid, Julian, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, 03043754, Jan-Mar2000, Vol. 25, Issue 1 Rufus
More specifically, where …problematized by it.









===**//Wolin 1NC//**=== 







**//The affirmative's rejection of the democratic system in favor of postmodern ideals undermines the political progree of the left and allows for a right wing takeover.//**

**//Wolin 04 [Richard, Professor of History, specializing in modern European intellectual history at the graduate Center of the City University of New York, The Seduction of Unreason, pg. iix-ix]//**
**//The seduction of unreason is...local English department//**

**//Right wing takeover leads to fascist takeover and genocide//**
//Wolin 04 **[Richard, Professor of History, specializing in modern European intellectual history at the graduate Center of the City University of New York, The Seduction of Unreason, pg. iix-ix]**//
**//During the 1960s...realm of unintelligibility//**

**//The alternative is to reject the affirmative and embrace the ideals of rights and justice under a liberal democracy.//**
**//Wolin 04//** //[Richard, Professor of History, specializing in modern European intellectual history at the graduate Center of the City University of New York,// The Seduction of Unreason, //pg. 313]//
//postmodernism's debilities lie elsewhere...nothing more than a lost cause//







===**//Hillman 1NC- Valley//**=== 










<span style="color: #000000; display: block;">**//Ares and Mars are ever present—war is an inevitable aspect of human nature—it is intrinsic to our being. The affirmatives quick rejection of war is an attempt of repression—this disconnects us with a fundamental part of our humanity. The aff’s anti war representations are used as a justification for larger and worse wars later on.//**









</span><span style="color: black; display: block;">**//Hillman 04//**
**//(James, Psychologist, scholar, international lecturer, originator of post-Jungian archetypal psychology, professor at Yale and the University of Chicago, "The Terrible Love of War", Penguin Press, pg. 201-205, )//**

**//There remains the wish at ….hypocrisy of noble proclamations .//**


**//The alternative is to EMBRACE WAR, ENTER INTO IT. Pacifist horror must be set aside. We must engage in war, not in the name of peace, but for the sake of war itself. When we gaze across the battlefield, across the carnage, the death and decay and destruction, we recognize the feelings these sights stir inside of us as what they are: a love of war. The question remains: which is better psychologically? Acceptance or repression? Our argument is that repression fails. Instead of fearing weapons, we should recognize our obsession with them; we should enter into our love with them.//**

**//Hillman 04//**
**//(James, Psychologist, scholar, international lecturer, originator of post-Jungian archetypal psychology, professor at Yale and the University of Chicago, "The Terrible Love of War", Penguin Press, pg. 125-126,)//**
**//There must be a myth at work…//**

**//the ghosts can't get me.//**



</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
==SKFTA DA-Emory== 

</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
===1NC=== 

The appointment of Daley gives Obama a unique opportunity to pass SKFTA—history proves Obama needs all of the focus and political capital he can get to get it done.
McLarty and Cunningham 1/23 (Mr. McLarty was chief of staff to President Clinton in 1993-94 and helped bring Bill Daley into the White House to lead the 1993 Nafta ratification effort. Mr. Cunningham was an aide to President Clinton and to then-Sen. Joseph Biden. “Obama's Free Trade Opportunity” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703954004576090290103169526.html?mod=googlenews_wsj //Donnie)//
//Much has been written about Bill Daley's selection as White House chief of staff, a position sometimes called "Chief Javelin Catcher" (a title whose accuracy one of us strongly affirms). Most agree that Mr. Daley is the perfect choice to help President Obama set a new tone for his presidency. He is a moderate, strongly rooted in Democratic principles and politics. Though he comes from the business community, he is no colorless technocrat or Republican shill. He is a Daley from Chicago and will not forget the needs of the lunchbucket voters who've supported Daleys for 50 years, or the political lessons he learned at the knee of his father, Mayor Richard J. Daley. Mr. Daley will need all his political skills to tackle what we think should become one of the signature accomplishments of his tenure: the return of liberalized trade as a centerpiece of Democrats' vision of economic competitiveness and globalization. Bill Clinton embraced this vision, and he understood that trade liberalization required strong bipartisan efforts. To pass the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta) in 1993, we set up a bipartisan war room within the White House, headed by Bill Daley and former Republican Congressman Bill Frenzel. Messrs. Daley and Frenzel worked together, with the full support of the president and White House staff, to push Nafta through the House with 102 Democratic and 132 Republican votes, and on to an equally bipartisan total in the Senate. Liberalized trade was also at the heart of President Clinton's view that America needed international competition to succeed in an increasingly trade-dependent world. Not every Democrat supported this view, though Mr. Clinton strongly pushed it within the party. But we quickly lost this bipartisan consensus and the progress Mr. Clinton had forged in his own party. By 1997, when Mr. Clinton sought renewal of "fast track" authority to negotiate more trade agreements, Republican Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich could not corral his majority to support the president and the effort failed. And although President George W. Bush did manage to make congressional headway on trade with his Republican majorities, he did so principally with Republican support. In the first two years of President Obama's tenure, progress on trade was largely frozen. Mr. Obama stated his support for the uncompleted pieces of the Bush trade agenda—free trade agreements with South Korea, Panama and Colombia, the dangling Doha World Trade Organization round, and Russia WTO accession—but little measurable progress was made. Now, in a few short weeks, Mr. Obama has renegotiated the U.S.-Korea free trade agreement and announced that it will be a priority in the new Congress. He has taken steps to resolve a longstanding trade dispute with Mexico over trucks that goes back to the Clinton years. And, with his selection of Mr. Daley, the president has hired the man who can make this trade revival a reality. What now? Our experience tells us that the only way to push a major trade agreement through Congress—even one where the nominally pro-trade GOP rules the House—is with strong and unyielding presidential leadership, a unified White House staff and cabinet, and a genuinely bipartisan approach to stakeholders and the Congress. First, the president must be fully committed. Nafta was a bipartisan success in no small part because of the personal involvement of Mr. Clinton and sometimes tortuous negotiations with members of Congress. It's true that some pork was doled out and more than one bridge was built as a result of a Nafta vote—something they probably still understand in Chicago. Second, the White House and cabinet must be unified in pulling for passage. Everyone from Vice President Joe Biden to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to Labor Secretary Hilda Solis and U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk must be fully engaged, without hesitation. Don't forget the crucial role that then-Vice President Al Gore's 1993 debate with Ross Perot played in swinging public opinion in favor of Nafta. Third, the effort must be genuinely bipartisan. We'll need scores of members from both sides to make passage possible (this is particularly true with a large tea party GOP caucus that is as yet undefined on trade). Perhaps Mr. Obama could even take a page from the 1993 playbook and bring into the White House a prominent Republican—former U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills, former Reagan Chief of Staff Ken Duberstein, or a former congressman such as Jim Kolbe or Chris Shays, for example—to help quarterback the effort.//

//<<Insert Plan Drains Capital>>//

//SKFTA solves trade wars in Asia—key to overall trade and solving a laundry list of global problems//
//Arirang News 1/26 [PR- USA.NET, Fear of trade War Stalks Davos Meeting;//
//http://pr-usa.net/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=602319&Itemid=31// STRONG]
The number of global risks facing the business and political bigwigs in Davos, the threat of a trade war is one of the most frightening. Open markets and trade are the essence of globalization that has made the growing prosperity for decades until interrupted by the credit crunch and economic slowdown. A first unified response to global crisis has avoided the wave of protectionism that the opinion of many was inevitable. However, there remain fears that the rebels of trade disputes – notably between China and the rich powers like the United States, European Union and Japan – could be extended to an outright trade war, at least not due to pressure on exchange rates. Trade ministers will meet twice in Davos this week to review progress in renewed efforts for an agreement on the trade round in Doha this year. Failure to conclude the Round, and more than nine years, would be a blow to the global trading system. Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantegna look real, “said last September the country was at war in foreign currency, and earlier this month warned that the conflict was turning into a trade war. “The threat of a trade war is real,” said Jean-Pierre Lehmann, professor at IMD business school in Lausanne and Evian Group founder Trade and Economic Thought. “We know that trade wars do not pay any consequences, but this does not prevent them from happening.” The lack of a 1930-style protectionism arise largely blame the recession of the arbitration by the WTO multilateral trading system (the system was set up in response to economic tensions between the moment). WTO dispute system meets the channel status to settle the dispute through negotiation or litigation. More recently, the United States has proposed amendments to a controversial method of establishing anti-dumping duties, known as zeroing, to comply with WTO rulings. China, a frequent target of litigation in the WTO, allows an active use of the system as a plaintiff. According to former WTO Deputy Director General Roderick Abbott, the recognition that supply chains are campaigning against global protectionism. “To break with the termination of your neighbor could mean the closure of the main livelihood,” he wrote recently. In their periodic reports of members of the WTO and the G-20, WTO Director General Pascal Lamy has said that the trading system based on rules has withstood the crisis. But last year, warned that currency tensions could undermine resilience. The desire to keep the currencies of a number of reasons, but to defend the jobs and keep the domestic export and import of cheap love often play an important role. While many economists and politicians are happy overall economic outlook, few are optimistic about the prospects for employment. The International Labour expects another year of global unemployment stubbornly 200 million as a brake on recovery. Lamy says Doha deal for a new trade agreement to strengthen the WTO system for the protection of protectionism. Weary trade negotiators say it is not yet clear, despite the ritual calls on the G8 and G20 news, if political leaders are ready for the compromises necessary for an agreement. In his State of the Union address Tuesday, President Barack Obama called for swift passage of a free trade agreement with South Korea, but refers to the passage of “global trade talks in the same breath as other agreements with Colombia and Panama and the negotiations at the regional level in Asia and the Pacific. The preference for bilateral or regional agreements in Doha, is viewed as another failure of the multilateral trading system. But for some, the importance of Doha is beyond the billions of dollars, but it would inject into the global economy. The ability to reach a new trade agreement is the touchstone of the international community’s ability to collaborate with other things, climate change and poverty in the Financial Regulation.


Protectionism makes nuclear war inevitable
Michael Spicer, economist; member of the British Parliament, The Challenge from the East and the Rebirth of the West, 1996, p. 121
The choice facing the West today is much the same as that which faced the Soviet bloc after World War II: between meeting head-on the challenge of world trade with the adjustments and the benefits that it will bring, or of attempting to shut out markets that are growing and where a dynamic new pace is being set for innovative production. The problem about the second approach is not simply that it won't hold: satellite technology alone will ensure that he consumers will begin to demand those goods that the East is able to provide most cheaply. More fundamentally, it will guarantee the emergence of a fragmented world in which natural fears will be fanned and inflamed. A world divided into rigid trade blocs will be a deeply troubled and unstable place in which suspicion and ultimately envy will possibly erupt into a major war. I do not say that the converse will necessarily be true, that in a free trading world there will be an absence of all strife. Such a proposition would manifestly be absurd. But to trade is to become interdependent, and that is a good step in the direction of world stability. With nuclear weapons at two a penny, stability will be at a premium in the years ahead.


</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
===2NC SKFTA Will=== 

Obama’s appointment of Daly is bringing a new bipartisan atmosphere into Washington—he is a heartthrob with each party and is the main player who got NAFTA passed—he will do the same now because Obama’s focus and the administrations cohesion gives them massive clout with each party

SKFTA will pass because of Obama’s commitment to bipartisanship
WSJ 1/26 (“Obama to Urge Congress to Ratify South Korea Trade Pact” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704698004576104763065534144.html?mod=googlenews_wsj //Donnie)//
//President Barack Obama will urge Congress on Tuesday to throw its support behind the retouched trade agreement with South Korea, urging lawmakers to put aside partisanship to improve the country's competitiveness. "This agreement has unprecedented support from business and labor; Democrats and Republicans, and I ask this Congress to pass it as soon as possible," Mr. Obama will say, according to a copy of his remarks released by the White House an hour before he is set to begin the address. In order for Congress to take up the pact, the president will have to officially send it to Capitol Hill for lawmakers to consider, something he is expected to do shortly. Trade is considered one of the few areas where the White House can work together with the newly Republican-led House, and also forms a big part of its job-creation agenda. The administration hopes the South Korea deal will generate over $10 billion in exports and support tens of thousands of jobs. Earlier Tuesday, House Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (R., Mich.) called for Obama to seek congressional approval within six months for all three trade agreements he inherited from the previous administration, including those with Colombia and Panama. "This deadline isn't being driven by politics or posturing, it is driven by the need to create jobs for American workers," said Mr. Camp during a committee hearing. With a deal reached with South Korea late last year to finally conclude those talks, trade supporters had been hopeful that Mr. Obama would lay out a timetable to complete ongoing negotiations with Colombia and Panama. Following the breakthrough on the South Korea deal, a senior administration official said there could be a decision on when to submit all three pacts early this year. Mr. Obama used last year's address to announce a plan to double exports over the next five years, and so far is on track to achieve that goal. Exports are up nearly 17% on the year through November, ahead of the 15% annual gains that will be needed. Mr. Obama will highlight the progress made in his address, noting recent export deals signed with India and China.//
//But trade advocates say the free trade agreements will be necessary to keep up the pace and reach the target, and believe the prospects of passage have improved markedly now that Republicans have taken over the House.//

//More evidence—bipartisan pushing//
//AP 1/25 (“GOP calls for quick action on free trade pacts” http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jdeg4iN7BPIoH8rvhp8OZ-SwGUCg?docId=712083e78a2e4842a0d7511fdc26f94e// Donnie)
Rep. Dave Camp, the House Republican charged with overseeing trade policy, said Tuesday that Congress should act on all three pending free trade agreements within the next six months. Camp, who chairs the Ways and Means Committee, told a hearing that completion of the trade deals with South Korea, Colombia and Panama was "a sure-fire way to create American jobs by growing U.S. exports of goods and services." The Michigan lawmaker cited estimates made by President Barack Obama that the South Korean agreement alone could create 70,000 American jobs. All three agreements were signed in 2007 but Congress has put off ratification, with Democrats claiming the pacts didn't adequately address such issues as Korea's restrictions on U.S. autos and beef and violence against labor leaders in Colombia. The United States and South Korea recently reached a deal to further open Korea's auto market. Rep. Sander Levin, D-Mich., who chaired the committee before Republicans captured control of the House, defended the go-slow approach, saying they resulted in better deals. "You may have been willing to pass flawed trade agreements, but we were not," Levin told Republicans. "We went about fixing Peru, Panama and Korea." The last free trade agreement approved by Congress was in 2007 with Peru. Levin said, that in addition to the recent revision of the South Korean agreement, Panama was now preparing to address tax haven and labor law concerns and the new government in Colombia appeared to be making progress on improving worker rights. Camp stressed that time was of the essence because the European Union and Canada have signed, or are poised to sign, agreements with the three countries and "continued inaction on our agreements will result in further missed opportunities to create U.S. jobs. He pointed to a committee report showing that the U.S. share of Colombia's market for corn, wheat and soybeans fell from 71 percent in 2008 to 27 percent through the first 10 months of 2010. At the same time, the market share for Argentina was up by 37 percentage points as the agriculture provisions of its trade agreement with Colombia went into effect. Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Texas, who heads the trade subcommittee, also urged quick action. "Panama is ready to go. We have the votes to pass it tomorrow." Colombia too, he said, "continues to make dramatic improvements in human rights, labor rights." Supporters of the agreements argue that the three countries can already export almost all their goods to the United States duty-free, and that the pacts would significantly reduce tariffs and non-tariff barriers imposed on U.S. exports. Roy Paulson, president of a company producing eye and face safety equipment and a representative from the National Association of Manufacturers, said his company now faces tariffs ranging from 6 percent in Panama to 20 percent in Colombia. "My nightmare is that my competitors will get free trade agreements first," he said. Stephen Biegun, vice president for international governmental affairs at Ford Motor Company, expressed strong support for the South Korean accord, saying that with recent revisions Ford could confidently say that it will help open "what has been to date the world's most closed automotive market." Levin noted that in 2009 South Korea exported 476,000 cars to the United States, while U.S. automakers exported less than 6,000 cars to South Korea. Obama has backed approval of the trade agreements and has put forth a general plan to double trade in the next five years, supporting 2 million American jobs. But the trade pacts were not a priority in the past session of Congress. Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, D-Mont., whose committee oversees trade, said Monday he was traveling to Colombia and Brazil next month and that "now is the time to resolve outstanding issues and approve the (Colombia) free trade agreement so American ranchers, farmers and workers can have a chance to compete." Also in the Senate, Sen. Rob Portman, R-Ohio — a former U.S. Trade Representative — and Sen. Joe Lieberman, I-Conn., introduced legislation supporting the three pending trade agreements and reinstating the president's authority, called fast track, that provided for expedited congressional action on trade deals.

Lobbying campaigns by the administration means it will pass—they overcome any opposition, continued political capital is key
LA Times 1/25 (“On South Korea trade deal, Obama and chamber are on same side” http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-korea-fta-20110125,0,2282064.story //Donnie)//
//On the eve of President Obama's expected push for American competitiveness in his State of the Union speech, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce kicked off a lobbying campaign in Los Angeles to push the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement. Its most unusual feature: close cooperation between the business group and the White House. The trade deal, which would be the largest since NAFTA took effect in 1994, has provided the first notes of harmony between the Obama administration and the chamber, whose relationship has been strained almost since the moment Obama took office. The president recently hailed the U.S.-South Korea trade pact — negotiated by his predecessor George W. Bush but yet to be passed by Congress — as "a win for American workers." His support is part of larger campaign to boost U.S. exports to stimulate jobs and reduce the trade deficit, themes the president is expected to emphasize in his address Tuesday. It's also the latest in a series of moves by the White House to reach out to business leaders, many of whom have been cool to what they consider burdensome Democratic initiatives on healthcare, the environment and financial services reform. "It is significant," said Bill Miller, the chamber's political director. "Korea can happen if we work together." The U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement would eliminate tariffs on 95% of U.S. goods within five years of its signing and could boost U.S. exports by $11 billion annually, the International Trade Commission estimates. It would reduce trade restrictions and tariffs on U.S. auto and beef exports while continuing American tariffs on South Korean autos for a limited time. Southern California would almost certainly be a major beneficiary. Nearly $16 billion in goods moved between South Korean and Southland ports in 2009. What's more, the Los Angeles area is home to an estimated 600,000 Korean Americans, many of whom have strong business ties to their homeland and are heavily invested in the local economy. Southern California's entertainment industry also supports the pact, which would clamp down on unauthorized copying and sharing of music and videos in South Korea, where piracy is a serious problem. The campaign for the trade agreement kicked off Monday at the Port of Long Beach. Han Duk-soo, South Korea's ambassador to the U.S., climbed on a small launch with dozens of chamber representatives, congressional staffers and South Korean advisors to see firsthand the effects of trade on the local community. Wearing red, white and blue buttons proclaiming "Pass the U.S. Korean FTA," the delegation sailed past giant Hanjin shipping cranes and stacked shipping containers, with a determined optimism about the deal. "I think we will have good results," Han said. "We have very strong support from U.S. businesses, and even the congressmen who have a negative view on it are sincere in their efforts to listen." On his tour of the harbor, the ambassador passed by scrap-metal dealer SA Recycling, where cranes picked through piles of rusting parts on a giant dock. South Korean tariffs on scrap metal would drop to zero once the deal is passed, and a 6.5% tariff on recycled plastic would be phased out, said Chul Chung, chief economist with the Korea International Trade Assn. "It's not going to export jobs," he said, watching the cranes toss metal into piles. "It will deepen the intra-industry relationships that are taking place right now." South Korea is the United States' seventh-largest business partner; two-way trade reached $67 billion in 2009. The White House estimates the trade agreement could create 70,000 U.S. jobs by increasing demand for U.S. products in South Korea. The accord has drawn criticism from some industrial-state Democrats worried about foreign competition. The United Steelworkers, the AFL-CIO and other industrial unions say that the pact could cost more American jobs and that they would keep pressure on Congress to reject it. While the trade agreement gives South Korean manufacturers better access to the U.S. market, there is "insufficient assurance that the closed South Korean market will sufficiently open up to our auto exports and other manufactured goods, such as steel," Leo W. Gerard, international president of the United Steelworkers, said in a statement. "And while Korean workers at these companies in their home market benefit from union representation, their operations here in the United States actively and aggressively fight to deny workers their most basic labor rights," Gerard said. Although some labor groups, including the United Auto Workers, support the deal, business lobbyists say Obama's vocal support of the pact in defiance of his labor constituents could signal a new era of cooperation between the White House and business. On Friday, the president won kudos from industry leaders for naming General Electric Co. Chief Executive Jeffrey Immelt, a Republican, to head a White House economic advisory panel. The business community also hailed Obama's appointment of William Daley as White House chief of staff. Daley, a former executive with JPMorgan Chase & Co., was former President Clinton's point man on the North American Free Trade Agreement. In backing the accord, Obama last month cited provisions that could result in gains for auto workers and agricultural exports, two areas where South Korea has historically placed high trade barriers. "It will contribute significantly to achieving my goal of doubling U.S. exports over the next five years," he said. Although administration officials were not present during the Long Beach port tour, the chamber and White House are working together to build support for the plan. The lobbying campaign will soon head to more heavily unionized states, including Ohio and Pennsylvania, where opposition to the agreement is more pronounced. But the administration's support will make stops in those states much easier, said Leslie Schweitzer, senior trade advisor to the chamber. "When you have the support of the administration and Congress," she said, "It makes it much easier to fight these local battles."//

//The G.O.P. is pushing SKFTA for job creation—vote counts//
//AP 1/25/11 (Associated Press quoting Rep. Dave Camp, . Rep. Sander Levin, D-Mich, . Rep. Kevin Brady, Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, D-Mont and Stephen Biegun, vice president for international governmental affairs at Ford Motor Companyhttp://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jdeg4iN7BPIoH8rvhp8OZ-SwGUCg?docId=712083e78a2e4842a0d7511fdc26f94e //Colin)//

//WASHINGTON (AP) — Rep. Dave Camp, the House Republican charged with overseeing trade policy, said Tuesday that Congress should act on all three pending free trade agreements within the next six months. Camp, who chairs the Ways and Means Committee, told a hearing that completion of the trade deals with South Korea, Colombia and Panama was "a sure-fire way to create American jobs by growing U.S. exports of goods and services." The Michigan lawmaker cited estimates made by President Barack Obama that the South Korean agreement alone could create 70,000 American jobs. All three agreements were signed in 2007 but Congress has put off ratification, with Democrats claiming the pacts didn't adequately address such issues as Korea's restrictions on U.S. autos and beef and violence against labor leaders in Colombia. The United States and South Korea recently reached a deal to further open Korea's auto market. Rep. Sander Levin, D-Mich., who chaired the committee before Republicans captured control of the House, defended the go-slow approach, saying they resulted in better deals. "You may have been willing to pass flawed trade agreements, but we were not," Levin told Republicans. "We went about fixing Peru, Panama and Korea." The last free trade agreement approved by Congress was in 2007 with Peru. Levin said, that in addition to the recent revision of the South Korean agreement, Panama was now preparing to address tax haven and labor law concerns and the new government in Colombia appeared to be making progress on improving worker rights. Camp stressed that time was of the essence because the European Union and Canada have signed, or are poised to sign, agreements with the three countries and "continued inaction on our agreements will result in further missed opportunities to create U.S. jobs. He pointed to a committee report showing that the U.S. share of Colombia's market for corn, wheat and soybeans fell from 71 percent in 2008 to 27 percent through the first 10 months of 2010. At the same time, the market share for Argentina was up by 37 percentage points as the agriculture provisions of its trade agreement with Colombia went into effect. Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Texas, who heads the trade subcommittee, also urged quick action. "Panama is ready to go. We have the votes to pass it tomorrow." Colombia too, he said, "continues to make dramatic improvements in human rights, labor rights." Supporters of the agreements argue that the three countries can already export almost all their goods to the United States duty-free, and that the pacts would significantly reduce tariffs and non-tariff barriers imposed on U.S. exports. Roy Paulson, president of a company producing eye and face safety equipment and a representative from the National Association of Manufacturers, said his company now faces tariffs ranging from 6 percent in Panama to 20 percent in Colombia. "My nightmare is that my competitors will get free trade agreements first," he said. Stephen Biegun, vice president for international governmental affairs at Ford Motor Company, expressed strong support for the South Korean accord, saying that with recent revisions Ford could confidently say that it will help open "what has been to date the world's most closed automotive market." Levin noted that in 2009 South Korea exported 476,000 cars to the United States, while U.S. automakers exported less than 6,000 cars to South Korea. Obama has backed approval of the trade agreements and has put forth a general plan to double trade in the next five years, supporting 2 million American jobs. But the trade pacts were not a priority in the past session of Congress. Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, D-Mont., whose committee oversees trade, said Monday he was traveling to Colombia and Brazil next month and that "now is the time to resolve outstanding issues and approve the (Colombia) free trade agreement so American ranchers, farmers and workers can have a chance to compete." Also in the Senate, Sen. Rob Portman, R-Ohio — a former U.S. Trade Representative — and Sen. Joe Lieberman, I-Conn., introduced legislation supporting the three pending trade agreements and reinstating the president's authority, called fast track, that provided for expedited congressional action on trade deals.//



//SKFTA will pass all issues have been resolved//
//The Wall Street Journal 1/18/11 (Tom Barkley Assistant Professor of Finance at Whitman and a writer for the Wall Street Journal http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20110118-710979.html// Colin)

WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--U.S. and South Korean officials plan to meet this week to continue working out the final text of the free-trade agreement, following last month's breakthrough on the long-stalled pact between the two countries. Wendy Cutler, assistant U.S. trade representative, will meet Thursday and Friday with South Korean Deputy Trade Minister Choi Seok-young in Los Angeles, during the annual meeting of the U.S.-Korea Business Council. It will be their second meeting since a deal was reached in early December to resolve outstanding issues on the U.S. side on a free-trade pact originally concluded in 2007. The biggest bilateral trade agreement the U.S. has negotiated since the North American Free Trade Agreement is expected to boost exports of goods to South Korea by as much as $11 billion, according to the independent U.S. International Trade Commission. The planned amendments mostly involve provisions sought by the U.S. to improve access for auto exports, in return for some concessions on the phasing of tariffs on U.S. pork. Once the text is completed, presidents from both countries will submit the deal to lawmakers for approval. U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said last week the administration hopes for the pact to be voted on by July 1, which is the date that a trade agreement signed between South Korea and the European Union goes into effect.



The South Korea-U.S. free trade agreement will be ratified. There is bipartisan support for the bill, and various members of the auto industry, who initially opposed the bill, which caused Democrat opposition, now support it.
Shepardson 1/26/10 (David, Detroit News Washington Bureau, The Detroit News, “Ford urges S. Korea trade deal”, http://www.detnews.com/article/20110126/AUTO01/101260319/1148/Ford-urges-S.-Korea-trade-deal //Scott)//

//Washington— Ford Motor Co. called on Congress Tuesday to approve the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement, after the automaker won changes to the proposed pact last month. The deal, which will reduce South Korea's tariffs on U.S. cars and trucks, also is supported by the top Republican and the top Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee: Chairman Dave Camp, R-Midland, and ranking Democrat Sander Levin of Royal Oak. Stephen Biegun, vice president of international governmental affairs at Ford, told the committee that "we at Ford have worked diligently over the past three years to reach a point where we could confidently say the U.S.-Korea FTA will help open what has been to date the most closed automotive market in the world." Biegun said Ford executives "strongly encourage the Congress to approve this agreement. Under its authorities, the U.S. auto industry will have far greater opportunity to expand the export and sale of American-made vehicles in Korea." According to the government, the auto sector accounts for 75 percent of the $10.6 billion U.S. trade deficit with South Korea. The changes made last month to the agreement, initially announced in 2007, also won the backing of the United Auto Workers union, even though other unions oppose it. UAW President Bob King last week said the union was "angry" when the White House reopened talks on the trade agreement. He said he told President Barack Obama "very adamantly" about the probable fallout for U.S. automakers if the 25 percent U.S. tariff on South Korean trucks was lifted. "We were angry about our lack of access to the Korea market," King said, adding that he got to talk one-on-one with Obama before a deal was reached. "(Obama) told me he would really go in and fix the auto provisions." King said that while the UAW isn't entirely happy with the deal, it is "dramatically better" in its revised form. Camp wants the administration to submit the Korea agreement to Congress, along with free trade deals with Panama and Colombia, in the next six months. All were approved in 2007 but never submitted to Congress for ratification. Camp said it will take a few months for the Obama administration and South Korea to finalize the written agreement before it can be submitted to Congress for a vote. "Trade agreements are a sure-fire way to support U.S. jobs and boost economic growth by creating new markets for U.S. goods and services," Camp said. "The United States cannot afford to sit on the sidelines while the rest of the world is actively concluding new trade agreements that leave us out. The first step to getting back on the field is passing these trade agreements." Levin said Democrats have "been hard at work fixing" the three trade pacts. "Trade agreements need to be shaped so that as trade expands, the benefits are spread more broadly," he said. "It has been an intensive effort to get trade policy right. And it is working."Ford CEO Alan Mulally was involved in the talks that led up to the governments' deal on changes. "We were fortunate to have several strong partners in helping us bring the Korea FTA to this point. In addition to Chrysler and General Motors, we were able to work in partnership with the United Auto Workers to chart a course in which all could support the final outcome. I cannot recall another trade agreement, certainly not in the recent past, which generated bipartisan support as well as the backing of industry and organized labor," Biegun testified. South Korea is an important automotive market with annual sales of almost 1.5 million, Biegun said. The majority of the 4,000 vehicles sold in 2009 by Ford in South Korea were built in the United States. Levin noted that U.S. automakers exported fewer than 6,000 cars to South Korea in 2009. The U.S. auto industry, Beigun said, is a leading sector of American exports. Ford opposed the 2007 Korea Free Trade Agreement reached by the Bush administration, he said, because it "essentially locked out American-made vehicles from South Korea." But Ford said the new deal "makes significant improvements. It would keep the 2.5 percent U.S. tariff on autos in place until the fifth year. At the same time, Korea will immediately cut its tariff on U.S. auto imports in half, from 8 percent to 4 percent, and fully eliminate that tariff in the fifth year." It also protects U.S. automakers by letting the United States keep its 25 percent truck tariff until the eighth year and then phase it out by the 10th year while Korea eliminates its 10 percent tariff on U.S. trucks immediately. The U.S. International Trade Commission has estimated that the three pending trade agreements, combined, would increase U.S. exports at least $13 billion, Camp said.//


//IT will pass—in the US and the south//
//Seattle Times 1/18/10 (Bruce Ramsey, Seattle Times editorial columnist, “Outdated Korean labor gripes shouldn't block Korea-U.S. trade pact”, http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/opinion/2013969903_bruce19.html?prmid=op_ed// Scott)
The trade agreement with South Korea is coming up for ratification in Congress. There will be a fight about it, and it will pass. The fight is much more intense in Korea. A partisan in that battle, Kim Kyung-ran, was in Seattle last week to see her allies at the Washington Fair Trade Coalition. She speaks for the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions, which opposes the agreement. She said U.S. companies want the agreement in order to invest in Korea. Why would Korean labor oppose that? She answered that the jobs created by U.S. corporations won't be any good. They will be in services only and will have no guarantee of lifetime employment. She had just described the sort of job millions of Americans have, and are used to. But until a decade ago, the Korean worker was in a different system. His pay was much lower than the American's, but he had a lifetime job guarantee. Kim's union confederation wants to go back to that world — at least, to the guarantee. But that world is gone. Clark Sorensen, chairman of the Center for Korea Studies at the University of Washington, says the job guarantee was part of a social contract in which the big Korean corporations were financed by state banks. The state guaranteed the company and the company guaranteed the worker. That system, which was built up during conservative governments, collapsed in the Asian financial crisis of 1998, and was swept away by Korea's liberal reformer, President Kim Dae Jung. His policies worked. The Korean economy was the first to pull out of the Asian crisis, and in the recent recession it has suffered less than the United States. "The Korean economy is really changed," Sorensen says. But many Koreans still associate the companies with favoritism, he says, "and they don't believe the government." Maybe they shouldn't believe their televisions. Three years ago, Korean TV ran a documentary on the fatal dangers of U.S. beef, warning darkly of mad-cow disease. People responded with a huge candlelight demonstration against American food — a protest that fed right into the campaign against the trade agreement. Kim's group, the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions, does not speak for all of Korean labor, most of which is not organized and some of which is represented by a confederation more moderate on business issues. In a country of 49 million, Kim's group does speak for about half a million workers, and, says Yong-Sung Jonathan Kang, professor at the UW School of Law, it is "a big player on the left in Korea." It has helped to make the trade agreement a big political issue against President Lee Myung-bak, who, says Kang, has "expended a lot of his political capital" to support it. Such a fight seems odd for a country already made rich through a half-century of investment and trade. Since the Korean War ended in 1953, South Korea has pushed up its output per worker to 60 percent of the U.S. level. Life expectancy for men and women is now greater than in the United States. Korea is one of the most wired countries on the planet; its youth are the online fanatics of the video game "World of Warcraft." The recent history of trade agreements strongly suggests that the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement will be ratified. The business and political elites of both countries want it, and they will get it. And on this issue they will be right.



</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
===2NC Trade Impact Ext.=== 

CSM 12/6 (“South Korea trade pact: US beachhead for pacts with Japan, China”
http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/the-monitors-view/2010/1206/South-Korea-trade-pact-US-beachhead-for-pacts-with-Japan-China//Donnie)//
//But then, in this dormant American economy, the brightest prospects for creating new jobs lie in expanded exports. And a tentative trade agreement approved Friday between the Obama administration and South Korea is the brightest star so far in US efforts to boost the overseas sales of its goods and services. It is also critical to President Obama’s promise to double exports by 2015. Congress has few reasons to oppose this pact, which would be the largest one since the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Mr. Obama, who opposed the first tentative deal with Korea, negotiated in 2007 under President Bush, was able to extract enough concessions to give this pact a strong bipartisan sheen. For one, it breaks down more barriers to exports of US-made cars and gives US truckmakers more time to become more competitive with Korean-made trucks. It would eventually lift tariffs on both sides for about 95 percent of trade between the two countries. By official estimates, that would boost US exports by $10-12 billion a year, creating tens of thousands of jobs. But even more, ratifying a deal with South Korea – America’s seventh-largest trading partner – could also help create the possibility for free-trade pacts with Asia’s two economic giants, Japan and China. America’s trade history is full of attempts to roll back Asia’s twin problems in economics: an approach to business that curbs competition and a “command economy” in which governments favor domestic industries and set up nontariff trade barriers. US lawmakers would also be wise to act soon on the Korea pact as Seoul is racing to firm up trade deals with Europe, India, Australia, and other nations. Also, the recent attacks by North Korea that killed South Korean civilians serve as one more reason to reinforce the two nations’ military alliance by pushing more trade cooperation. (The US is only 10 percent of the South’s export market.) For Obama, winning approval of this pact in Congress will bolster his leadership in achieving other successes on the economy. And with the recent global recession triggering a resurgence of protectionism in many countries, the US must again assume the mantle of leadership and keep trying to open foreign markets. Far more American jobs have been created over time than lost because the US remained open to the world. Trade forces companies to be more efficient, creative, and nimble – the very qualities that have kept the US as the world’s biggest economy, and can continue to do so.//

//SKFTA ratification is key to Obama’s trade leadership//
//WSJ 12/6 (“A Korea-U.S. Trade Deal, At Last” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704767804576000542290721476.html//Donnie)
What a long, strange trip it's been for the South Korea-U.S. free trade agreement. The two sides announced this weekend that they've reached a deal on revisions to the draft that was signed in 2007 but never ratified. It comes not a moment too soon, given the boost this will give to a U.S. economy stumbling its way to recovery and with tensions rising on the Korean peninsula. The saga is also a lesson to future U.S. Presidents on the importance of trade leadership. Having campaigned against the pact in 2008, President Obama rediscovered its benefits once in office. Yet by then he was forced to re-open negotiations to justify his earlier opposition. The result is a deal that is slightly better than the excellent 2007 text in some ways, but slightly worse in others. And this after a delay that has cost the U.S. global credibility on economic issues, not to mention the cost to U.S. growth. The good news is that the 2007 agreement stays mostly in place. South Korea still offers significant opening of its sheltered economy to American manufactured goods, agriculture and services. Within five years of ratification the deal will eliminate tariffs on 95% of the countries' trade in goods, and it also clears the way for greater trade in services by, for instance, opening Korea's banking industry.



</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
===SKFTA Turns East Asia Aff's=== 

SKFTA ratification is key making presence sustainable in East Asia—solves all of your internal links to regionalism and north Korean war
Bandow your 1ac author 10 (Doug Bandow is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan, he is the author of several books, including Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire (Xulon) “U.S. Hurts Itself Sitting on South Korea Free Trade Agreement” http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12527/ /Donnie)
How have the Obama administration and the Democratic Congress responded to the twin challenges of continued high unemployment and China's displacing America as the number one trading partner with leading East Asian states? By retreating economically from Asia. The U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement sits unratified in Washington. This policy is remarkable for both its economic and geostrategic folly. Thankfully, U.S. trade policy is undergoing a reset. When he met South Korean President Lee Myung Bak at the last Group of 20 Summit, President Barack Obama advocated reviving the agreement. He hopes to wrap up outstanding issues by the next G20 meeting in November, to be held in Seoul. Still, the path to ratification is not clear. Leading congressional Democrats remain opposed, while Seoul refuses to renegotiate the accord. Ratification is a must. The South possesses one of the world's largest economies and is among the top dozen trading nations. It is a major importer of aircraft, cereals, chemicals, machinery and plastics. The FTA would expand the Korean market for American products. Jeffrey Schott of the Peterson Institute for International Economics reported: "The U.S.-Korea pact covers more trade than any other U.S. trade agreement except the North American Free Trade Agreement" and "opens up substantial new opportunities for bilateral trade and investment in goods and services." Roughly 95 percent of trade would become duty free within three years and most of the other tariffs would be lifted within a decade. Obviously, the FTA does not eliminate all economic barriers in South Korea — just as it does not eliminate all import restrictions in America. Nevertheless, both countries would benefit economically. According to the U.S. International Trade Commission, the elimination of South Korean tariffs alone should add $10 billion to $12 billion to U.S. gross domestic product. Demand for American audio visual, financial and telecommunications services also are likely to increase substantially. The longer-term gain could be even greater. First, South Koreans, like Chinese, remain less affluent individually than suggested by their GDP. Continued strong growth would greatly enhance individual buying power, leading to increased purchases of American goods and services. Second, reunification with the North is likely someday. A unified Korea will be an even more important market for U.S. concerns. Nor is economics the sum total of the issue. A rising China is bumping up against a still dominant America. Strengthening trade ties is one way for Washington to ensure continued American influence in East Asia. Despite the Wall Street debacle, the U.S. retains the world's largest and most productive economy. However, Washington's economic dominance in East Asia is waning. China has pushed American companies into second and even third place in many countries, most notably in South Korea and Japan. At the same time, China is asserting itself throughout Asia, including in South Korea. In June, Beijing finalized an economic framework cooperation agreement with Taiwan and is pressing for free trade agreements with Australia and Japan. China and South Korea also have discussed the possibility of a FTA. The fact that China is pursuing this strategy with America's three leading military allies in the region demonstrates Washington's problem. South Korea is not waiting for the U.S. Last year Seoul completed the world's largest bilateral trade pact, with the European Union. American manufacturers will soon find themselves at a disadvantage compared to European producers — with the likely loss of roughly $30 billion in exports. The primary benefit of the FTA is economic. Expanding trade ties offers geopolitical advantages as well. The Bush administration only slightly overstated the benefits when it argued: "By boosting economic ties and broadening and modernizing our long-standing alliance, it promises to become the pillar of our alliance for the next 50 years, as the Mutual Defense Treaty has been for the last 50 years." Washington's influence in East Asia is slowly ebbing. Today, the U.S.-South Korea military alliance is outdated. However, Washington can employ American "soft power" — access to the world's most important, advanced and productive economy — to actively engage friendly nations. The U.S. should press for multilateral and regional agreements. Washington already has forged FTAs with Australia and Singapore. The U.S. should move forward and negotiate FTAs with Japan, Taiwan and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, a collection of 10 highly trade-dependent states. The start is for the U.S. Congress to ratify the pending accord with South Korea. Failing to approve the South Korean FTA is likely to result in permanent economic and geopolitical damage. This would be a high price for America to pay at any time, but especially when China is rapidly expanding its influence throughout East Asia.

</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
==**START DA**== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">START will pass – has enough support now even without Kyl – plus Kyl vote isn’t off yet and he will bring other republicans over with him after the nuclear modernization deal is over

Washington Post 11/17/10</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mary Beth Sheridan and Walter Pincus; November 17, 2010 Wednesday; Senate's ratification of START hinges on Kyl's vote; - Lexis]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sen. </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/lnacui2api/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T10632564221&returnToId=20_T10632572147&csi=8075&A=0.7525221246931575&sourceCSI=9369&indexTerm=%23PE0009XOR%23&searchTerm=Jon%20Kyl%20&indexType=P|Jon Kyl ]]</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Ariz.), …supports the treaty__.__ </span>**
**[Insert Plan Drains Political Capital]**
Political capital is key to START – passage must be in the lame duck
**<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">BBC 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sergey Rogov, director of the Russian Academy of Science US and Canada Institute, 4/9, BBC, “Russian pundit questions outlook for US ratification of new arms cuts deal,” p. Lexis)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span class="term"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Obama</span></span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> will …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the </span><span class="term"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senate</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">".</span>**
<span class="TagChar0"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">START solves accidental launch</span>
</span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Podvig 6</span></span> (Pavel, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, “Reducing the risk of an accidental launch”, Science and Global Security, 14:75-115, online)**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Part of the …</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">with nuclear weapons</span>.</span>**
US-Russia war is the only existential risk – sheer magnitude of nuclear arsenals
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom 2</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick, Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A much greater existential ….</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the 21st century</span>**







</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
==COIN Good DA== 
===1NC=== 
WE ARE WINNING THE WAR, and there is no resentment of our presence, losing risks nuclear terrorism indo/pak war and collapsing US heg
Riedel 10 (Bruce Riedel, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Saban Center for Middle East Policy “Who's Winning This War?”Mar. 28 http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0328_afghanistan_war_riedel.aspx//Donnie)//
//Today al Qaeda is …mission is.//

//Small foot-print strategy’s like the aff cause civil war in Afghanistan because it allows for total taliban takeover—that destabilizes the whole region and causes nuclear war//
//Kagan and Kagan, 9 - * former prof of military history @ West Point AND **military historian (Fredrick W., Kimberly, “Don't Go Wobbly on Afghanistan”, 10/12/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/101110)**//
//**It is very likely that …use of nuclear weapons.**//

//**COIN is key to heg—it shows commitment, shift to counterterrorism obliterates US credibility**//
//**Twining 2009 [Dan- senior fellow for Asia at the German Marshall Fund of the United States , “The Stakes of Afghanistan Go Well Beyond Afghanistan”, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan]**//
//**And that is …nor our values**//

//**We also read a card that it hurts intellegence gathering, the card is Riedel and O’Hanlon 9 and it’s the same cite as the card in the 2NC section…sorry I cant find the first and last word but it will be posted soon smile face **//


</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
===//**2NC CT fails**//=== 
//**CT empirically fails at solving instability—COIN is key to it being successful**//

//**Kagan 9 (Fredrick W. is an American resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute (AEI), and a former professor of military history at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point “Afghanistan Is Not Vietnam” feb 11 http://www.newsweek.com/2009/02/10/afghanistan-is-not-vietnam.html**//**Donnie)**
**As in Iraq since 2006, …have been comparable.**

**COIN increasing instability now CT crushes it**
**Dobbins 10/26 (James, directs the International Security and Defense Policy Center at the RAND Corporation and served as Assistant Secretary of State “Your COIN Is No Good Here How "Counterinsurgency" Became a Dirty Word” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/66949/james-dobbins/your-coin-is-no-good-here?page=show//Donnie)//**
**//What this and …in these endeavors?//**

**//Israel proves CT fails—it lacks intelligence, support, and makes pakistan collapse inevitable//**
**//Byman 9 (DANIEL BYMAN is Director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies at Georgetown University, a Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy, and the author of the forthcoming book, A High Price: The Triumphs and Failures of Israeli Counterterrorism. “Taliban vs. Predator” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/64901/daniel-byman/taliban-vs-predator//Donnie)**
**Taliban and al Qaeda …from bases in Pakistan).**

**No chance of CT working—no where to strike and local leaders get corrupted by the Taliban**
**Boot 9/2 (Max Boot, Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow for National Security Studies**
**“Afghanistan: The Case for Optimism” http://www.cfr.org/publication/22878/afghanistan.html//Donnie)//**
**//In a chaotic environment …West) be damned.//**


</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
===**//2NC Intel DA//**=== 
**//The strategy fails - can’t get intelligence//**

**//Riedel and O’Hanlon, 9 - *Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Saban Center for Middle East Policy AND//** //Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy at Brookings (Bruce and Michael, USA Today, 9/24, “Why We Can't Go Small In Afghanistan,” http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0924_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx)//

//Those who favor the …drying up of intelligence.//

//Turns the case cant win without intelligence//
//Grant 10 (George, is the Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director at//
//The Henry Jackson Society “Succeeding in Afghanistan” http://www.henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf//
Donnie
No operation of …resourced at every level.

Squo is solving intelligence COIN is doing it and its key
Grant 10 (George, is the Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director at
The Henry Jackson Society “Succeeding in Afghanistan” http://www.henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf//Donnie//
//The main argument …whenever it appears.//

//Fewer Troops Sparks Antiamericanism – It Decreases Intelligence//
//Hegghammer 2009, senior research fellow at the Norwegian Defense Research Establishment, [Thomas “The Big Impact of Small Footprints,” November 11th, http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/11/11/the_big_impact_of_small_footprints]//
//Moreover, the …from the aftermath.//






</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
==//**India Relations DA**//== 
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-India relations are at an all time high—co-operation and visit </span></span>//


//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twining 11/12</span></span> **(Dan, Senior Fellow for Asia at the German Marshall Fund of the United States (GMF). He is also a consultant to the U.S. government on South Asia and Asian security issues. writes @ foreign policy, “Are U.S.-India relations oversold?” http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/11/12/are_us_india_relations_oversold**//**Donnie)**
**The biggest disappointment …<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">the 21st century</span>.</span>**
Plan devastates relations—they view the aff as abandoning India
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kaplan 10</span></span> **(Robert D. Kaplan is is a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, the author of** //**Monsoon: The Indian Ocean and the Future of American Power**//**, a national correspondent of //The Atlantic// and a member of the Defense Policy Board http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf//Donnie)//**
//**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">He or she …</span><span class="Emphasis2">it deserts India. </span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Key to prevent Asian instability, terrorism and prolif</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"><span class="cite">Burns, 5</span></span> – Undersecretary for Political Affairs (Nicholas Burns, Under Secretary for Political Affairs, 9-8-05, Congressional Testimony before the House International Relations Committee, “The U.S. and India: An Emerging Entente?” **[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/official_docs/dos/dos090805.pdf]]**)//
//A strong democratic <span style="font-weight: normal;">…</span>**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">for both countries</span>. </span>**//
//Causes global nuclear war//
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cimbala, 10</span></span> - Prof. of Political Science @ Penn State, (Stephen, Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century, p. 117-8)//
//**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Failure to contain …mistaken preemption.</span></span>**//



</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
==//**2NC Impact OV**//== 
//**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">US-India relations key to investment—solves warming</span></span>**//


//**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burns 10</span></span> (William J. Burns, Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs “India’s Rise and the Future of the U.S.-India Relationship” http://www.cfr.org/publication/22326/indias_rise_and_the_future_of_the_usindia_relationship.html**//**Donnie)**
**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Our strategic dialogue …</span></span><span class="Emphasis2">emissions by 2030.</span>**



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Warming is reversible but is about to hit a tipping point—will cause extinction </span></span>**


</span>Brown 8—**Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S., 2008 [Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”]**

**In 2004, Stephen Pacala …under these extreme stresses.**
**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">US withdrawal hurts relations to a point that India moves towards china away form the US—that guts heg here is reverse causal evidence </span></span>**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 11/5</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Ashley </span></span>is a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues.<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> “</span></span>Reimagining U.S.-India Relations” http://carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41889**//**Donnie )**//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">But the </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">United States …of all concerned</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span>**//
//**Best way to make CT work**//
//**<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">K. Alan </span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kronstadt,</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> Coordinator Specialist in South Asian Affairs Paul K. </span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kerr </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Analyst in Nonproliferation Michael F. </span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Martin</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> Specialist in Asian Affairs and Bruce </span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vaughn</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> Specialist in Asian Affairs </span></span>“India-U.S. Relations” <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10/27</span></span>/10 http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33529.pdf**//**Donnie)**
**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">One facet of …observers remain skeptical.242 </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S.-India relations are key to trade, our presence in Asia and sustained economic growth </span></span>**India News Online, 7 **(“Fear not a rising India: US official,” 11-5-2007, [[http://news.indiamart.com/news-analysis/fear-not-a-rising-in-17168.html]]**)
Rather than fear **<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">…us than Pakistan</span></span>**," he said.


That means we control the only internal link to conflict escalation
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Levkowitz, 8</span> **– The International Relations Department, Hebrew University (May 2008, Alon, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “The seventh withdrawal: has the US forces' journey back home from Korea begun?” vol. 8, no. 2., Oxford Journals)**
**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Regional tasks –…in the region</span></span>** (Lee, 1978, pp. 107–108, 1982, p. 102).
**More ev—relations prevent escalation—__all__ their impacts are mitigated**
Richard L. **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Armitage </span></span>**President, Armitage International, **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">and </span></span>**Co-Chair R. Nicholas **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Burns</span></span>** Professor of the Practice of Diplomacy and International Politics, Harvard University, Co-Chair Richard Fontaine Senior Fellow, Center for a New American Security**<span class="underline"> “</span>**A Blueprint for the Future of U.S.-India Relations” 20**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">10 </span></span>**http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Natural%20Allies_ArmitageBurnsFontaine.pdf//**Donnie )** A strong U.S.-India … in the international community.//


</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
==//**Uniqueness**//== 



//**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US and India are co-operating on proliferation climate change a whole range of other issues—the recent commitments of Obama to India by visiting have strengthened ties to an all time high—that’s Twinning Prefer our evidence—it assumes obama’s visit US-India relations high now—commitments and co-operaton</span></span>**//
//**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burns 10</span></span> (William J. Burns, Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs “India’s Rise and the Future of the U.S.-India Relationship” http://www.cfr.org/publication/22326/indias_rise_and_the_future_of_the_usindia_relationship.html**//**Donnie** ) **<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Realizing the full …</span></span>and our society?**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">There is a brink—US india relationship can swing dowards—but its still good now</span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 11/5</span></span><span class="underline"> (Ashley</span> is a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues.<span class="underline"> “</span>Reimagining U.S.-India Relations” http://carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41889**//**Donnie )**//
//**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">This is a very …looking forward to that</span>.</span>**//
//**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Focus and co-op prove uniqueness</span></span>**//
//**<span class="underline">K. Alan </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kronstadt,</span></span><span class="underline"> Coordinator Specialist in South Asian Affairs Paul K. </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kerr </span></span><span class="underline">Analyst in Nonproliferation Michael F. </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Martin</span></span><span class="underline"> Specialist in Asian Affairs and Bruce </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vaughn</span></span><span class="underline"> Specialist in Asian Affairs </span>“India-U.S. Relations” <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10/27</span></span>/10 http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33529.pdf**//**Donnie)**
**<span class="underline">Further U.S. attention …civil nuclear cooperation.</span>**



</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
==//**China Bashing DA**//== 
//China currency bill may pass the Senate, but Obama has the political capital to veto it//







//**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters 10/25</span></span> (“GOP poised to gain tax, banking clout in U.S.” http://blogs.reuters.com/columns/2010/10/25/gop-poised-to-gain-tax-banking-clout-in-u-s/Donnie)**//

**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">This may be …</span></span>favored by Republicans.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"><Insert plan drains capital>

</span>**A bad political environment is driving the bill—Obama needs political capital to hold it off**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters 9/8</span></span> (“Senate, House eye action on China currency”**
**http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6875RK20100908?pageNumber=1**//**Donnie)**//
//**<span class="Emphasis2">A volatile political environment …</span><span class="underline">their union base</span>," Griswold said.**//

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Statements by Chinese officials prove Obama __signing__ it causes a trade war</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miami Herald 10/8</span> **(“U.S.-China trade war feared” http://www.miamiherald.com/2010/10/08/1862882/us-china-trade-war-feared.html**//**Donnie)**
**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The Chinese ambassador …</span></span>opportunities in China.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China bashing escalates to trade war that goes hot—even if the US wins the shooting war it still collapses its geopolitical position
</span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Liu 5</span></span>** (Henry C K Liu **is chairman of a New York-based private investment group.** “<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">Trade wars can lead to shooting wars” </span>**<span style="color: black;">http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/GH20Dj01.html</span>**//**Donnie**//
//**<span class="underline">US </span>**geopolitical **<span class="underline">hostility …plagued with overcapacity</span>**//



//**.**//













//**1NC K aff Impact**//






//**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">China bashing is grounded in securiterized racist fear of the Other shattering US hegemony—reject this paradigm to end otherwise inevitable war </span></span>**//
//**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Liu 5</span></span>** (Henry C K Liu **is chairman of a New York-based private investment group.** “ <span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">Trade wars can lead to shooting wars” </span>**<span style="color: black;">http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/GH20Dj01.html</span>**//**Donnie** )
**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The fear of China …be stopped by war</span>.</span>**





//**Uniqueness**//




//**The Bill wont be taken up now—but there is existing political pressure, the plan would push it over the brink**//

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters 10/26</span></span> (“Yuan Bill unlikely to pass US Senate” http://sify.com/finance/yuan-bill-unlikely-to-pass-us-senate-news-news-kk0aPuhidca.html//Donnie)//**
//**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The US Senate is …until the next Congress."</span></span>**//

//**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The bill being taken up now is key—leaving it to the next Congress kills it—the timeframe is __now__</span></span>**//
//**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Financial Times 10/5</span></span> (“Nuclear option paraded but unlikely to be deployed” http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/d63bf800-d241-11df-8fbe-00144feabdc0.html**//**Donnie)**
**But <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Congressional …</span>.</span>Heritage Foundation.**

**Obama wants to veto it now—but hes on the brink**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">NPR 9/29</span></span> (“House Passes Bill Aimed At Chinese Currency” http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130218922//Donnie)//**
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SIEGEL: The Senate is …</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">came to him.</span></span>**//








<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">

</span>//**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Japan Rearm Disad- Greenhill RR</span>**//









//**Japan does not want to rearm they’re satisfied with American protection**//



//**Asia for Educators 6/23**//





///10 (part of Columbia University, “Essay: An Overview of Japan's Postwar Defense Policy,” http://afe.easia.columbia.edu/japan/japanworkbook/fpdefense/artnine.htm, 6/30/2010)//
//**Ironically, by the...in foreign affairs.**//


//**This is because the US Japan security alliance has been strengthened with new Japanese PM**//



//**Kyodo News International 6/27**//





///10 [2ND LD: Japan, U.S. agree to deepen alliance, cooperate on Futenma, N. Korea 6.27.2010, http://www.istockanalyst.com/article/viewiStockNews/articleid/4254904]//
//**Japan and the United States...India and Russia.**//


//**Withdrawal force of US forces causes Japan to build its conventional & nuclear arsenal – makes arms race and war inevitable – destroys security commitment**//



//**Khalilzad 98**////[Zalmay Khalilzad, Policy Analyst at the Rand Corporation 1998 Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century]//
//**The third vital interest ...and possibly war.**//


//**Asian arms races will spark nuclear conflict**//
//**Cimbala 8**////[Stephen Cimbala, Comparative Strategy, Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia, Vol. 27 #2, 2008, informaworld]//
//**The spread of nuclear weapons ... center of gravity (in the present century).14**//



</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
=======South Korea Econ DA======= 
</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
======1NC====== 


Plan guts investment in South Korea which collapses its economy
Magnum 4**- __Brigadier Commanding General for Special Operations in South Korea__**
**<span class="Underline">__(Spring 2004, Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, “Joint Force Training: Key to ROK Military Transformation”, pg online @ [http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/13/06_ronald_s_mangum.pdf__</span>**
**<span class="Underline"> __Many Koreans ignore of its forces.__</span>**

**<span class="Underline"> __South Korean economy is key to Asian democracy__</span>**
**<span class="Underline"> __NEWSWEEK, 10 1/29/10, “Selling South Korea,” [[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/01/28/selling-south-korea.html__</span>**In short, the South Korean…,__ that of China."Diamond //Independently, withdrawal will stop U.S. foothold in the Asian Pacific Market which will collapse the U.S. economy// **//Kinne 04//**- Colonel and US Army Researcher (5/3/04, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea” pg online @ [http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691])withdrawal of U.S. …the global marketplaceMead ======2NC Uniqueness ======South Korea’s economy is high now—<span class="Underline">A. Domestic demand and global recoveryReuters 10</span> (“S.Korea fin min sees economy growing 5 pct in 2011” April 27 http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSSUL00003520100427//**Donnie)** **<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">South Korea's economy …</span></span>expansion in 2011** **B. Won stronger** **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bloomberg 10/14</span></span> (“Dollar Falls, Commodities Climb as Fed Seen Boosting Economy; Stocks Drop” http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/dollar-stocks-retreat-as-u-s-economic-reports-point-to-weaker-recovery.html**//Donnie)**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">South Korea’s won</span> …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the end of 1993. </span>**//C. Energy bill passage// <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bloomberg 10/12</span></span> (“South Korea to Spend $36 Billion on Clean Energy by 2015 to Gain Markets” http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/south-korea-to-spend-36-billion-on-clean-energy-by-2015-to-gain-markets.html)<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">South Korea</span></span>, Asia’s …<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the statement</span>.D. Investor confidence<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yonhap News 10/14</span></span> (“(LEAD) Korean won hits 5-month high to U.S. dollar” http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/business/2010/10/14/10/0503000000AEN20101014007000320F.HTMLDonnie <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The South Korean …</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">at Woori Futures Co.</span> **======2NC Link ======//Withdrawal crushes South Korean econ – defense expenditures//Suh, 10 –** Associate Professor and Director of Korea Studies at SAIS, (5/17/10, J.J., Foreign Policy in Focus, “Allied to Race? The U.S.-Korea Alliance and Arms Race,” http://www.fpif.org/articles/allied_to_race_the_us-korea_alliance_and_arms_race)Using the second, …for its absence.**Plan forces massive increase in defensive spending – hurts ROK spendingEberstadt, et al, 07** -- <span style="font-style: normal;">Henry Wendt Scholar in Political Economy at AEI (Nicholas, Christopher Griffin – research fellow at AEI, Friedberg – prof at Princeton, AEI, 10/6/2007, “</span>Toward an America-Free Korea.” [[http://www.aei.org/article/26924]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Economic Performance. </span>Dramatically ..a post-alliance era?

**Military Presence facilitates foreign investment and economic growth**
**Hwang 06** – PhD and Senior Policy Analyst for Northeast Asia in the Asian Studies Center
(10/16/06, “The U.S.-Korea Alliance on the Rocks: Shaken, Not Stirred” pg online @ [http://www.heritage.org/Research/Lecture/The-US-Korea-Alliance-on-the-Rocks-Shaken-Not-Stirred])
For South Korea, …//**economic future of Korea.**//



</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
==1NC Unification DA== 

Unification by 2015
Haselden 2 (Carl B. Haselden Jr “The effects of Korean unification on the US military presence in Northeast Asia” http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0IBR/is_4_32/ai_95447365///Donnie)//
//The Korean peninsula remains one of the last bastions of the Cold War. The United States has forward deployed approximately 91,500 personnel to the Republic of Korea (ROK) and Japan, in part to deter North Korean aggression or to provide the initial military response if deterrence fails.(2) However, ongoing diplomatic negotiations between the ROK and North Korea show the potential for a peaceful reconciliation and eventual reunification of the two nations. While a unified Korea is not a certainty, a political settlement on unification may be reached by 2015. (3) Korean unification would be a catalyst for a major revision of the security architecture in Northeast Asia, involving not only Korea and the United States, but also Japan, China, and Russia. (4) One of the principal US concerns is that the perceived regional stability would lead to a call for the withdrawal of US forces based in Northeast Asia. The groundwork needs to be laid now for maintaining a continued US presence after unification in order to fu lfill our national interests. (5)//

//Absent presence, reunification causes proliferation//
//Jackson 2k (Richard S. Jackson Major, United States Air Force Director of Operations “Security of the Korean Peninsula: U.S. Continuing Commitment”//
//www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/cc/jackson.html//Donnie)
Korean unification might lead one to conclude that a United States presence on the peninsula will no longer be necessary. To the contrary, withdrawal of U.S. forces from the Korean peninsula would lead most likely to increased tensions in the region as North and South transition to a new form of government and create a potential destabilizing situation in East Asia. If the German experience is any indicator, a united Korea will be economically focused inward for several years while trying to develop the industrial infrastructure of the northern half of the country. Feeling vulnerable to external threats during this period, a united Korea's dormant hostilities and suspicions of traditional adversaries have the potential of resurfacing. Korea would be suspicious of not only Japan, but particularly of an emerging China with no effective "counterbalance." During this period of increased economic drain, it is not inconceivable for the new Korea to establish a nuclear deterrent to offset a diminished military capability, further aggravating international attempts to restrain nuclear proliferation. The U.S. can mitigate the disruptive consequences of unification as the two current Koreas recreate a national government by remaining military engaged on the peninsula. Having U.S. forces in Korea during reunification, whether a rapid or long term transition, provides a sense of security for both nations from outside distractions and provides an environment conducive to peaceful reconstruction.


Cimbala

2NC Stuff
Reunification’s inevitable

A. Talks prove they have plans for 2015 to get together—that’s Haseleden

B. Expert opinion
Parker 3 – U.S. Colonel (Richard H. Parker, “US Military Presence in a Unified Korea,” Strategy Research Project, 4/7/03, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA414532)
Recently, top aides to Defense Secretary Rumsfeld stated that the United States should consider reducing its military presence in Korea—without abandoning its responsibility to protect a close ally. They argue that with the tremendous capabilities provided by modern technology, coupled with a much more powerful South Korea military, an opportunity exists to drawdown forces.1 According to many, Korean unification is no longer a question of “if”, but simply “when”. 2 Once it occurs, there will be demands from both sides of the Pacific for reduction, or complete withdrawal, of US forces from Korea. Although North Korea’s public admission of a nuclear weapon program3 causes immediate concern, the greater issue may be whether a unified Korea maintains a nuclear weapon capability—or, whether Japan heads in that direction.

C. Statements prove
The Economist 10 (“Invitation to a reunion” Aug 18. http://www.economist.com/blogs/asiaview/2010/08/south_koreas_reunification_tax//Donnie)//
//IN HIS independence-day speech of August 15th, President Lee Myung-bak made a pronouncement that caught even his own party off-guard: “reunification will happen”. A moment later he added that South Korea must do more to develop “real and substantive ways to prepare for reunification, such as the adoption of a unification tax”.//

//D. North collapse//
//Beck 10 (Mr. Beck is the Pantech Research Fellow at Stanford University and teaches at American University and Ewha Womans University. “Contemplating Korean Reunification” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704340304574635180086832934.html//Donnie)
North Korea's nuclear program has preoccupied foreign policy makers for years, but it's not the only problem on the Korean Peninsula. Kim Jong Il's regime looks increasingly unstable and could collapse. That could lead to North Korea's reunification with the South and could present foreign leaders with the expensive task of modernizing the North's economy.



E. Politics
Koehler 6 (Robert Koehler an award-winning, Chicago-based journalist, is nationally syndicated writer.
“In the wake of Korean reunification” http://www.rjkoehler.com/2006/04/17/in-the-wake-of-korean-reunification///Donnie)//
//Allow me to add some comments of my own. Let me start off with the question of Korean reunification. I agree the reunification is pretty much inevitable, although I think most Koreans already believe the process will be extraordinarily painful. My own guess is that when the realities of the gulag state are revealed in a way that can no longer be denied or ignored, the left will be too busy trying to take credit for “subverting” the North Korean state through Sunshine and fending off attacks from the right and the right too busy racking in political capital by blaming the left (especially if, as some suspect, the collapse of North Korea is accompanied by the revelation that more than a few South Korean figures were on Pyongyang’s payroll) for either group to focus primarily on blaming outside powers. And at any rate, the post-unification process is likely to be so painful that it might force Korea to be rather self-absorbed with its own problems for quite some time. The chances of post-unification Korean nationalism taking on a nasty streak, however, could increase dramatically depending on how the collapse of North Korea/reunification process goes down. In particular, there could be a great deal of resentment if Chinese troops are included in any international peacekeeping force sent to stabilize North Korean territory in the wake of an implosion. As it stands now, it seems the question is not whether or not China will send troops to North Korea for security reasons and/or to gain leverage over the reunification process, but rather how many troops it will send. If the Chinese are perceived to be pursuing an agenda quite apart from Seoul’s, Koreans might start to look for their modern-day Kim Yu-sin.//



//F. Consensus—20 to thirty years is the timeframe because of succession crisis//
//Bain 10 (George S., is a freelance writer/editor and former copy editor for the Syracuse Newspapers. He holds an M.A. in public administration from the Maxwell School “One Korea: How a collaboration in public management and information technology hints at peninsula's political future” http://www.syracuse.edu/news/articles/maxwell-north-korea-01-10.html//Donnie)
Ambassador Donald P. Gregg, for whom Thorson’s new post is named, was the U.S. ambassador to South Korea from 1989-93. He foresees direct negotiations between the United States and North Korea within a year. In an upcoming article in The Ambassadors Review, Gregg writes that the United States should forgo thoughts of regime change and pursue negotiations, both bilateral and in the six-party talks, to end the North’s nuclear weapons program in exchange for full U.S. relations and a formal end to the Korean War. “I think North-South unification is inevitable, but neither side wants it to happen quickly, as a result of either implosion or explosion in North Korea,” he says. Or, as Han phrases it, all parties “should seek a soft landing, not a hard landing.” The transition of power from Kim Jong-il, who reportedly had a stroke in 2008, remains a concern. He is now said to favor his youngest son, Kim Jong-un, who has no prior experience in government or international affairs. Han sees the senior Kim walking a tightrope: “The military power in North Korea, in general, does not want to negotiate with the U.S., while Kim Jong-il has attempted to normalize the relationship with the U.S. Thus, he was trying to address the concerns of both military and foreign policy teams by taking an all-in approach with nuclear weapons and engagement with the U.S.” The question, says Han, is whether Kim can continue his foreign policy and pass power to his son. Gregg identifies the young Kim as a key player: “Both sides look for a gradual process of accommodation, which is why I feel that young Kim, educated in Switzerland, is such a potentially important figure.” However, “no one really knows how the North Koreans think about all this,” Wallerstein says, “given their proclivity for self-isolation and self-reliance.” He poses a series of questions: “What are the dynamics within the North Korean government? How ill is Kim? How capable is his youngest son? What will the military hardliners do in a period of transition? There’s so much uncertainty.” He concurs with Gregg’s reunification timetable of 20-30 years, anticipating “a gradual evolution toward reunification, beginning with security confidence-building measures.”






GOP will win now—enthusiasm gap guarantees—but dems base motivation could turn it around



Daily News 9/7





**(Michael McAuliff staff writer “Talk About an Enthusiasm Gap” http://www.nydailynews.com/blogs/dc/2010/09/talk-about-an-enthusiasm-gap.html Donnie)**
Here’s another data point ... have outsize impacts.


The base is isolationist, they hate forward deployment—plan placates them



Black 9





**(Conrad, A New Isolationism?, National Review, DA 7-11-2010, http://article.nationalreview.com/412047/a-new-isolationism/conrad-black_**
In the 2006 and ...or at least isolationists.


Placating the base makes them turn-out—causes prevents GOP takeover



Montpoli 9





**Brian, Liberal Base "Worried" About Obama Agenda, CBS News, http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-503544_162-5603617-503544.html**
Jane Hamsher, the founder... is here," she said.


GOP win of ONE of the houses is key to the economy –biz con and stock trading



Task 8/5





**(Aaron, staff writer for yahoo finance “Jeff Matthews: GOP Midterm Victory Will Lift "Wet Blanket" Off Economy, Stocks” 2010. http://finance.yahoo.com/tech-ticker/article/535298/Jeff-Matthews%3A-GOP-Midterm-Victory-Will-Lift-%22Wet-Blanket%22-Off-Economy,-StocksDonnie)**
Stocks drifted lower early ... pounding the table on."


Continued economic decline causes nuclear word war three



O’Donnell 9 **(Sean BA in history @ University of Maryland “Will this recession lead to World War III?”Feb. 26 [[http://www.examiner.com/republican-in-baltimore/will-this-recession-lead-to-world-war-iii/Donnie|http://www.examiner.com/republican-in-baltimore/will-this-recession-lead-to-world-war-iii//Donnie]])**




<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Could the current... [[http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d10-Maryland-Democrats-dont-learn-economic-lessons-from-the-past|history repeats itself]]. </span>

</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
==SoKo Prolif DA== 

US assuring South Korea now—nuclear umbrella and conventional troops
Roehrig 10 [Associate Professor in the National Security Decision Making Department at the U.S. Naval War College, 2010 Terence, Nuclear Weapons and Extended Deterrence: The U.S. Nuclear Umbrella over South Korea, pg 18-19, http://www.allacademic.commeta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/4/1/6/5/7/pages416574/p416574-19.php]
The 2009SCM Joint Communiqué … to deter North Korea.

Withdrawing from South Korea would cause them to nuclearize.
Eberstadt et al 07 – Henry Wendt Scholar in Political Economy at AEI (Nicholas, Aaron L. Friedberg is a professor at Princeton University, Christopher Griffin is a research fellow at AEI, 10/06/07, “Toward an America-Free Korea ,” http://www.aei.org/article/26924) A Nuclear Crisis--in South Korea.
If forced to …South Korea's international standing.

ROK prolif will spur Asian arms race
Chanlett-Avery and Squassoni 6 [Emma Chanlett-Avery, Analyst in Asian Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division AND Sharon Squassoni. Specialist in National Defense, Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, 10/24/06, CRS Report for Congress, “North Korea’s Nuclear Test: Motivations, Implications, and U.S. Options” Google]
Many regional experts …for both countries.24

Asian arms races will spark nuclear conflict
Cimbala 8 [Stephen Cimbala, Comparative Strategy, Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia, Vol. 27 #2, 2008, informaworld]
The spread of nuclear …(in the present century).14


</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
=====2NC Cards===== 
Uniqueness
US Security commitments to ROK is solid now—
A. The US nuclear umbrella and assurance to launch conventional war against North Korea prove—that’s Roehrig
B. Troop presence makes ROK feel secure—prevents prolif long into the future
Choong 2010 (6/12/10, The Straits Times, William, The Nation, LexisNexis, YU)
Something unusual happened …become an option.

C. ROK officials trust us now—but its on the brink
Glosserman and Cossa 9 [Brad Glosserman executive director and Ralph Cossa president of the Pacific Forum CSIS, 8/4/2009, Pacific Forum CSIS PacNet 54, U.S.-ROK relations: a Joint Vision – and concerns about commitment, Google]
Despite all the talk …defense of the ROK.

c. Joint military exercises
Associated Press 6/27/2010 (Ron Powers, Politics News, US, South Korea to test military force as deterrence to North Korea ‘Future aggression’, May 24, 2010, http://blog.taragana.com/politics/2010/05/24/us-south-korea-to-test-military-force-as-deterrence-to-north-korea-future-aggression-38519/, )
WASHINGTON — The U.S. and South… stoke tension unnecessarily.


Links
We’ll isolate a few links--
A. Protection link--Withdrawal forces the ROK to get nukes to protect itself from the North—that’s Eberstadt

B. Flip flop link—the plan makes the US look uncredible to SoKo in all areas-collapses all commitments
Hendricks 5 (Todd, Lieutenant Commander, Civil Engineer Corps, US Navy, “Adverse Effects of Prospective U.S. Forces Korea Troop Realignments”, Department of Joint Military Operations requirement paper, 2-14, Naval War College)
The ROK will …without focusing on USFK.”1

This outweighs any of their dumb link defense arguments
Rey 9 [Santaro Rey, staff writer at the Asia Times, 2009 “World powerless to stop North Korea,” Asia Times, 5/27/2009, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/KE27Dg01.html, 7/5/2010]
For more than 60 years,… on the US itself.

B. Fear link North Korean threats make the link certain
Lee 7 [Dong Sun Lee, Assistant Professor at the Department of Political Science and International Relations, Korea University, author of Power Shifts, Strategy, and War (Routledge, 2008), Australian Journal of International Affairs 12/1/2007, “A nuclear North Korea and the stability of East Asia: a tsunami on the horizon?” GoogleScholar pg. 16-17]
If the arming …would nuclearise East Asia.

D. Trip wire link: plans troop reduction makes the South Uneasy about all commitments causes prolif
Choi and Park 8 [Kang Choi, Director-General and Professor of American Studies @ Institute of Foreign Affairs and National Security, andJoon-SungPark, Distinguished Researcher @ Department of National Security and Reunification @ the Institute for Foreign Affairs and National Security, 2008, The Long Shadow: Nuclear Weapons and Security in 21st Century Asia, P. 392-393]
The possibility of either… with North Korea.

</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
==Japan Rearm 1NC Shell== 

Japan does not want to rearm they’re satisfied with American protection
Asia for Educators 6/23/10 (part of Columbia University, “Essay: An Overview of Japan's Postwar Defense Policy,” http://afe.easia.columbia.edu/japan/japanworkbook/fpdefense/artnine.htm, 6/30/2010)
Ironically, by the …passivism in foreign affairs.

This is because the US Japan security alliance has been strengthened with new Japanese PM
Kyodo News International 6/27/10 [2ND LD: Japan, U.S. agree to deepen alliance, cooperate on Futenma, N. Korea 6.27.2010, http://www.istockanalyst.com/article/viewiStockNews/articleid/4254904]
Japan and the …China, India and Russia.

Withdrawal force of US forces causes Japan to build its conventional & nuclear arsenal – makes arms race and war inevitable – destroys security commitment
Khalilzad 98 [Zalmay Khalilzad, Policy Analyst at the Rand Corporation 1998 Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century]
The third vital …and possibly war.

Asian arms races will spark nuclear conflict
Cimbala 8 [Stephen Cimbala, Comparative Strategy, Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia, Vol. 27 #2, 2008, informaworld]
The spread of …(in the present century).14




</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
===Japan Rearm Link=== 
US Security Credibility through the deployment of troops is key to keep Japan from rearming – assures our nuclear deterrence
Nye 9 (Joseph, Prof. IR – Harvard U., CQ Transcriptions, DEL. ENI H. FALEOMAVAEGA HOLDS A HEARING ON JAPAN'S CHANGING ROLE, 6-25, L/N)
And, this raises …than decrease proliferation.

Loss of US confidence causes Japan to rearm – security issues
China Post 3 (“Taiwan No. 8 'Volcano' On Globe: Forbes”, 3-1, lexis)
Japan was sixth …the Forbes analysis.

Without security guarantees Japan will nuclearize causing instability in the region – North Korea threat
Belfast Telegraph 6 (“North Korea Triggers Fears Of Atomic Arms Race in Asia; Rice's Warning Follows Nuclear Test”, CTY Edition, News, p.8, 10/18, lexis)
The US is …and to South Korea."

U.S. presence in Japan restrains Japanese armament
Katzenstein and Okawara 9 [Peter J. Katzenstein the Walter S. Carpenter, Jr. Professor of International Studies at Cornell University and Nobuo Okawara Professor of Political Studies at Kyushu University 2009 “Japan, Asian-Pacific Security, and the Case for Analytical Eclecticism,” International Security Vol. 26 No. 3 p. 153-155 can be accessed at: http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/international_security/v026/26.3katzenstein.html#authbio1
To many observers, …to make it so.

</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
==Deterence DA vs Japan Aff== 
Plan leads to China taking Senkaku
Jitsuro 10 (Terashima Jitsuro is the president of Tama University, as well as president of the Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute and chairman of the Japan Research Institute. “The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure, and the Future” http://japanfocus.org/-Terashima-Jitsuro/3398 //Donnie)//
//This is Funabashi's argument: "… post-Cold War international order.//

//That causes Sino-Japanese war//
//Han 10 (Dongping Han is Professor of History and Political Science at Warren Wilson College, NC. The opinions expressed are his own. “Disputes over Diaoyu Islands do Japan no good” http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/opinion/2010-09/14/content_11300070.htm// Donnie)
But the Chinese students …arrest them all?


Goes nuclear
Lim 05 – Prof. IR at Nanzan U. in Japan(Robyn, Prof. IR – Nanzan U. in Japan, “Geostrategic Trends in Asia”, 1-6, http://www.icasinc.org/2005/2005l/2005lrxl.html)
For example, the …of the equation.

</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
===2NC Presence Link=== 
Presence key
Crowell 10 (Todd Crowell covered Tiananmen as Chief of Correspondents for Asiaweek. He comments on Asian affairs at Asia Cable (www.asiacable.blogspot.com). “Can Japan Defend Its Islands From China?” http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2010/09/21/will_japan_lose_its_southern_islands_99192.html //Donnie)//
//Currently, China …to occupy them?//


//More evidence—and they would get drawn into the war—turns the kadena impact//
//Ito 12/14/10 (Masami, staff writer, “Suddenly, U.S. alliance is back in vogue” http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20101014f1.html// Donnie)
But owing to a …hort distance immediately."

No risk of kickout now because of the dispute—this disproves the aff’s uniqueness stance on each advantage, quick timeframe for the link
Mulgan 10 (Aurelia George Mulgan is Professor of Politics at the University of New South Wales, Australian Defence Force Academy. “US-Japan alliance the big winner from the Senkaku Islands dispute” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/10/26/us-japan-alliance-the-big-winner-from-the-senkaku-islands-dispute/ //Donnie)//
//Funabashi Yoichi concurs …a ‘Senkaku tailwind’.//

//China is becoming more and more assertive—presence is key to check their invasion of Japan//
//Japan Today 10 (“Japan wary of China's military, deems U.S. forces key to security” http://www.japantoday.com/category/national/view/japan-wary-of-chinas-military-deems-us-forces-key-to-security// Donnie)
Japan remains wary …replacement facility elsewhere.

</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;">
===2NC Perception Link=== 
Perception of alliance break up is the biggest internal link—your “other forces check arguments” don’t mater
Goodenough 10 (Patrick, besides having an awesome name, he is a staff writer for CNN “China-Japan Maritime Dispute Suggests China May Sense a Weakening in U.S.-Japan Ties” http://www.cnsnews.com/node/75423 //Donnie)//

//China on Friday …stability across Asia.”//



//China is waiting for a signal of weakness—low threshold for the link –failure causes massive chinese nationalism and rampant invasions//
//Snyder 10 (Scott A. Snyder, Adjunct Senior Fellow for Korea Studies, Council on Foreign Relations http://www.cfr.org/publication/23196/checking_chinas_territorial_moves.html// Donnie)
Assure American allies …based on nationalism.


Resolve is key—the US needs to stand up for every interest or it risks total Chinese hegemony
Economy 10 (Elizabeth C. Economy, C.V. Starr Senior Fellow and Director for Asia Studies, Council on Foreign Relations http://www.cfr.org/publication/23196/checking_chinas_territorial_moves.html //Donnie)//
//Chalk one up for the …again and again.//















Case








<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">











</span>
AT: Bio-D advantages








<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">











</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
==Species Loss Good== 

Species loss causes better-adapted species to evolve—solves larger extinctions
Dodds 7**– MS in PE. President, North Pacific Research (Donald, The Myth of Biodiversity, [[http://northpacificresearch.com/downloads/The_myth_of_biodiversity.doc]])**
**Notice next that at …<span class="underline">with a changing environment.</span>**

Diversity is comparatively worse
Heath 99 **(Jim, Orchids Australia, December, [[http://www.orchidsaustralia.com/whysave.htm]])**
Some people say … biological world more stable.


Current human impacts on nature bring long-term evolutionary benefit
Boulter 2 – **professor of paleobiology at the University of East London (Michael, Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man, p 170)**
**The same trend … of**
vulnerable organisms

</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
===2NC Intervention Bad=== 
Human intervention in evolutionary progress prevents natural selection

Kunich 94



– Professor of Law, Appalachian School of Law (John, 24 Envtl. L. 501)
**The ESA manifests no evidence that …culminates in extinction**

Berliner 8
(Michael S. Berliner is co chairman of the board of directors of the **[[http://aynrand.org/|**Ayn Rand Institute**]]** in Irvine, Calif. **The Institute promotes the philosophy of Ayn Rand, author of [[http://www.aynrandbookstore2.com/store/prodinfo.asp?number=AR01B&variation=&aitem=27&mitem=33|Atlas Shrugged]] and [[http://www.aynrandbookstore2.com/store/prodinfo.asp?number=AR02B&variation=&aitem=28&mitem=33|The Fountainhead]]. “The Danger of Environmentalism” http://www.aynrand.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=8403&news_iv_ctrl=2464 Donnie)**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> The fundamental goal … makes life on earth possible.</span>
</span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
===2NC Impact Calc=== 

Unlimited species growth causes final extinction
Boulter 2 – professor of paleobiology at the University of East Londo

(Michael, Extinction:===

Evolution and the End of Man, p 67)
**If bio==**
**logical evolution …**
Extinctions are necessary to retain life on this planet.
Mass extinctions are key to life on Earth
Boulter 2 –** professor of paleobiology at the University of East London (Michael, Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man, p 183-4) The system of life on Earth behaves… to start again from scratch.
</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> They don’t access extinction—empirics prove
Jablonski 1</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Prof @ Department of Geophysical Sciences, University of Chicago “Lessons from the past: Evolutionary impacts of mass extinctions” May 16. http://www.pnas.org/content/98/10/5393.full//Donnie)//
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mass extinctions …</span>//</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">


</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> //survival without recovery (“dead clade walking”), and (//
v//) unbridled diversification.//




//<span style="font-family: Arial;">(Kenneth Anderson is a professor of international law at Washington College of Law, American University, Washington, D.C., and a visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution. He specializes in international law, human rights and the laws of war, as well as international business law, international development, and not-for-profit law. Before joining the American University law faculty, he was founding director of the Human Rights Watch Arms Division and later general counsel to the Open Society Institute/Soros Foundations Foreign Law and the U.S. Constitution http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/2932196.html</span>//
Donnie)


</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
===1NC Japan Kickout Advantage Frontline=== 

The aff would lead to more kickouts—not less
Feffer 10 (John Feffer is the co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies and writes its regular World Beat column. “Pacific Pushback Has the U.S. Empire of Bases Reached Its High-Water Mark?” http://www.tomdispatch.com/blog/175214/tomgram:_john_feffer,_can_japan_say_no_to_washington //Donnie)//
//Wherever the U.S. military puts down its foot overseas, movements have sprung up to protest the military, social, and environmental consequences of its military bases. This anti-base movement has notched some successes, such as the shut-down of a U.S. navy facility in Vieques, Puerto Rico, in 2003. In the Pacific, too, the movement has made its mark. On the heels of the eruption of Mt. Pinatubo, democracy activists in the Philippines successfully closed down the ash-covered Clark Air Force Base and Subic Bay Naval Station in 1991-1992. Later, South Korean activists managed to win closure of the huge Yongsan facility in downtown Seoul. Of course, these were only partial victories. Washington subsequently negotiated a Visiting Forces Agreement with the Philippines, whereby the U.S. military has redeployed troops and equipment to the island, and replaced Korea’s Yongsan base with a new one in nearby Pyeongtaek. But these not-in-my-backyard (NIMBY) victories were significant enough to help edge the Pentagon toward the adoption of a military doctrine that emphasizes mobility over position. The U.S. military now relies on “strategic flexibility” and “rapid response” both to counter unexpected threats and to deal with allied fickleness. The Hatoyama government may indeed learn to say no to Washington over the Okinawa bases. Evidently considering this a likelihood, former deputy secretary of state and former U.S. ambassador to Japan Richard Armitage has said that the United States “had better have a plan B.” But the victory for the anti-base movement will still be only partial. U.S. forces will remain in Japan, and especially Okinawa, and Tokyo will undoubtedly continue to pay for their maintenance. Buoyed by even this partial victory, however, NIMBY movements are likely to grow in Japan and across the region, focusing on other Okinawa bases, bases on the Japanese mainland, and elsewhere in the Pacific, including Guam. Indeed, protests are already building in Guam against the projected expansion of Andersen Air Force Base and Naval Base Guam to accommodate those Marines from Okinawa. And this strikes terror in the hearts of Pentagon planners. In World War II, the United States employed an island-hopping strategy to move ever closer to the Japanese mainland. Okinawa was the last island and last major battle of that campaign, and more people died during the fighting there than in the subsequent atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki combined: 12,000 U.S. troops, more than 100,000 Japanese soldiers, and perhaps 100,000 Okinawan civilians. This historical experience has stiffened the pacifist resolve of Okinawans. The current battle over Okinawa again pits the United States against Japan, again with the Okinawans as victims. But there is a good chance that the Okinawans, like the Na’vi in that great NIMBY film Avatar, will win this time. A victory in closing Futenma and preventing the construction of a new base might be the first step in a potential reverse island hop. NIMBY movements may someday finally push the U.S. military out of Japan and off Okinawa. It’s not likely to be a smooth process, nor is it likely to happen any time soon. But the kanji is on the wall. Even if the Yankees don’t know what the Japanese characters mean, they can at least tell in which direction the exit arrow is pointing.//

//You gut deterrence—no air fields—you overburden Kadena—internal link turns the case//
//Klinger 9 (Bruce, is Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation. “U.S. Should Stay Firm on Implementation of Okinawa Force Realignment” http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2009/12/us-should-stay-firm-on-implementation-of-okinawa-force-realignment// Donnie)
Okinawa's strategic location contributes to potent U.S. deterrent and power projection capabilities as well as enabling rapid and flexible contingency response, including to natural disasters in Asia. Marine ground units on Okinawa can utilize Futenma airlift to deploy quickly to amphibious assault and landing ships stationed at the nearby U.S. Naval Base at Sasebo, Nagasaki Prefecture. Okinawa has four long runways: two at Kadena Air Base, one at Futenma, and one at Naha civilian airfield. The Futenma runway would likely be eliminated after return to Okinawa control to enable further civilian urban expansion. The planned FRF would compensate by building two new (albeit shorter) runways at Camp Schwab. However, if the Futenma unit redeployed to Guam instead, no new runway on Okinawa would be built. Japan would have thus lost a strategic national security asset, which includes the capability to augment U.S. or Japanese forces during a crisis in the region. Not having runways at Futenma or Schwab would be like sinking one's own aircraft carrier, putting further strain on the two runways at Kadena. Redeploying U.S. forces from Japan and Okinawa to Guam would reduce alliance deterrent and combat capabilities. Guam is 1,400 miles, a three-hour flight, and multiple refueling operations farther from potential conflict zones. Furthermore, moving fixed-wing aircraft to Guam would drastically reduce the number of combat aircraft sorties that U.S. forces could conduct during crises with North Korea or China, while exponentially increasing refueling and logistic requirements.

No kickout in status quo—politics, economics, fear
Time 10 (“Why Japan and the U.S. Can't Live Without Okinawa” http://www.time.com/time/nation/article/0,8599,1994798,00.html //Donnie)
Japan's new Prime Minister, Naoto Kan, confirmed his nation's inherent conservatism on Sunday. In a 15-min. phone call with President Obama, the new Japanese leader pledged that he would work to fulfill the 2006 deal under which the U.S. Marines' Futenma air base on Okinawa would be relocated from its current cramped quarters to a more remote part of the island. Kan honored the agreement by confirming on Tuesday that he would move the base to a less-crowded part of Okinawa, as well as try to reduce the burden on the island for hosting the many U.S. military bases that are part of the joint security pact. With the region increasingly jittery following North Korea's alleged sinking of the South Korean warship Cheonan in March — and amid increased Chinese muscle-flexing — Hatoyama ultimately acceded to Washington's demands. "[Removing the U.S. base from Okinawa] has proved impossible in my time," Hatoyama said when he announced his decision to step down. Not since 1960 — when Prime Minister Nobusuke Kishi resigned after pushing through an unpopular U.S.-Japanese security treaty — has a Japanese leader been forced from power over the country's military ties with the U.S. "Someday," Hatoyama said, "the time will come when Japan's peace will have to be ensured by the Japanese people themselves." That's not going to happen anytime soon, in part because both sides benefit from the current agreement. The U.S. gets to station a potent punch amid one of the world's most dynamic but unsettled regions, while Japan is relieved of an additional defense-spending burden that would do little to help revive its flagging economy.

</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
===2NC No Kickout=== 

Extend the times evidence—there will be no kickouts—Japan fears Island disputes with China and North Korea too much to just force us to leave, also fears over the economic burden of rearmament after kickout and fear of loss of political capital all prevent it.

More evidence---fear means the bases will stay—the most influential leaders want the squo—note that this argument also proves the alliance is going to stay, it takes out both advantages
Chaffin 10 Greg, is an intern with Foreign Policy In Focus
www.ips-dc.org/.../okinawa_and_the_changing_us-japan_alliance //Donnie)//

//In the meantime, the status quo holds. The United States does not feel that Japan is adequately capable of filling the operational void that would be left were it to withdraw key forces from Okinawa. As a result, Washington has pressured Tokyo into accepting the 2006 realignment agreement as a transitional phase while the United States reduces its capabilities and Japan enhances its own. In Japan, meanwhile, the strongest voices in Japanese politics call for a continued U.S. military presence in order to ensure Japanese security, at least until Japan is able to more fully take on responsibility for its own security. Furthermore, Japanese concerns over the rise of China as well their unpredictable nuclear-armed neighbor, North Korea, have strengthened the domestic case for remaining close to the United States while pursuing indigenous defense capabilities within the context of the security alliance.//

//More//
//Chaffin 10 (Greg, is an Intern/Research Assistant with Foreign Policy in Focus.//
//“Pivotal Election in Okinawa” http://www.fpif.org/articles/pivotal_election_in_okinawa// Donnie
A difficult road lies ahead as the inhabitants of Okinawa confront both Tokyo and Washington. Attempts to reconcile the population with the relocation plan have met such stiff resistance that it has become politically impossible. Unfortunately, there seem to be few palatable alternatives. For Tokyo, simply increasing federal subsidies to Okinawa in a transparent effort to buy off the populace is no longer a viable option, nor is ignoring popular frustration with the negotiating process. The Japanese government must be willing to push back against U.S. pressure on behalf of its citizenry. However, territorial clashes with China coupled with the flare-up of tensions on the Korean peninsula have led many in Japan to advocate tightening the alliance with the United States.


Polls and threats prove
Epoch Times 12/2/10 (“Okinawa Election Results Favorable to US Base” http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/content/view/46876/ //Donnie)//
//The relocation of the controversial U.S. military air base in Okinawa, Japan, has a better chance of a U.S.-favored resolution following the re-election of Gov. Hirokazu Nakaima. Both Nakaima and his competitor Yoichi Iha stated their desires to close the Futenma base and relocate to a different facility. Yet while Nakaima Dur, Iha—supported by Japan’s Social Democrats and Communists—didn’t want the base in Japan at all, according to an Institute for Policy Studies report. For the Futenma military base, the U.S. interest is to relocate from its current urban setting, to a less populated area along the coast of Okinawa. “The Obama administration put maximum pressure on the Japanese government to abide by an earlier agreement to build a replacement facility on Okinawa,” states an Institute for Policy Studies report. “The U.S. military bases in Japan play a vital role in military power in Asia. We couldn't have fought the Korean and Vietnam wars without the nearly 90 military bases scattered around the islands of our major Pacific ally,” states a Japan Policy Institute report. “Even today, Japan remains the anchor of what's left of America's Cold War containment policy when it comes to China and North Korea.” Japanese residents in Okinawa have largely opposed the U.S. Futenma Marine air base. The island was home to the last major battle between the United States and Japan during World War II, and was one of the targets of the atomic bombings. According to the Japan Policy Institute report, more people were killed in Okinawa than were killed by the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki combined. More recent incidents have also lowered public opinion of the base—particularly in 1995 when three U.S. soldiers raped a 12-year-old girl on the island. “The reaction to that rape throughout Japan and around the world mobilized otherwise inattentive people to the persistence of Cold War-type relationships in East Asia—particularly to the presence of 100,000 American troops,” states a book description of “Okinawa: Cold War Island” by Johnson Chalmers. Recent developments, however, principally rising tensions between Japan and China, have given Japan new reason to host the base in Okinawa. The two countries are locked in a dispute over territory in the East China Sea. Japan plans to send troops to the disputed islands in the East China Sea in response to Chinese naval activity there In September, tensions rose to new heights when a Chinese fishing boat collided with two Japanese coast guard vessels. The recent rise in tensions between the Koreas—North Korea’s sinking of South’s Cheonan Navy vessel in March, and the North’s shelling of a South Korean island on Nov. 23—has also made the region strategically more sensitive. Two top level politicians from the Democratic Party of Japan—former parliamentary Vice Minister for Defense Akihisa Nagashima and former parliamentary Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs Shuji Kira—issued a detailed report in late September “outlining a post-Cheonan regional security strategy for Japan, that called for closer strategic ties with like-minded states and U.S. allies across the Asia-Pacific region,” states a report from the Center for Strategic & International Studies (CSIS). Michael J. Green, CSIS senior adviser & Japan chairman, gave a statement on relations between the United States and Japan before the House Foreign Affairs Committee in June 2009. He said polls showed 76 percent of Japanese think the alliance with the United States is useful to Japan; while 80 percent of Americans consider Japan a “reliable ally.” He added that a poll showed 69 percent of Japanese believe they could go to war in the near future. “That is why the Japanese press and politicians are watching nervously to see whether the Obama administration will keep a firm line with North Korea after two years of unilateral U.S. concessions to the North that sparked unprecedented debate in Tokyo about the credibility of the U.S. extended nuclear deterrent,” Green said.//

//Super sweet political horse trading will prevent controversy and solve the issue—shores up the alliance and keeps bases//
//Stimson 12/15/10 (“Okinawa’s Election: A Glimmer of Hope for the U.S.-Japan Alliance” http://www.stimson.org/spotlight/okinawas-election-a-glimmer-of-hope-for-the-us-japan-alliance/// Donnie)

On November 28th, Governor Hirokazu Nakaima of Okinawa, the Japanese prefecture at the center of a U.S. base relocation controversy, was narrowly reelected in a contest against a candidate who strongly opposes the local U.S. military presence. Although many challenges remain, Nakaima's reelection gives Washington and Tokyo a glimmer of hope for finally overcoming the dispute that has caused considerable damage to the bilateral relationship. This is definitely welcome news; developments such as the apparent shift in Chinese maritime strategy and unprecedented tensions on the Korean peninsula have reminded policy makers on both sides of the Pacific of the continued value of the partnership. The election results give the two countries an important opportunity to repair some of the damage of the past year and to reinvigorate the U.S.-Japan security alliance. The base relocation controversy involves a 2006 agreement between the U.S. and Japan to move Marine Corps Air Station Futenma in Okinawa from the center of a major city to Henoko, a less densely populated area on the island. This compromise was settled on after the Japanese government under the leadership of the long-ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) agreed with American officials that despite local discontent with the major U.S. military presence, removing the base from the island completely was not strategically viable. The trouble began during the 2009 general election when former Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama-then leader of the opposition Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ)-made a campaign promise to move the unpopular base "at least outside" Okinawa. This created a misled sense of hope among the local population, and when political realities forced Hatoyama and the DPJ to make an agreement in May that was substantively identical to the 2006 agreement, massive public demonstrations against the relocation erupted in Okinawa. Hatoyama resigned in June in an attempt to reverse the considerable damage the controversy caused the DPJ in time for the July upper house election, and his successor, current Prime Minister Naoto Kan (DPJ), has since reaffirmed Tokyo's support for relocation of MCAS Futenma to Henoko. The DPJ's newfound support for the agreement does not mean there are no longer challenges facing the alliance. Prime Minister Kan still has the unenviable task of devising a way to get Okinawa to swallow the move of MCAS Futenma despite continued overwhelming local resistance, plummeting domestic approval ratings and political deadlock. This comes at a time when Japan is being buffeted by several regional security challenges, such as Chinese encroachment on the Senkaku Islands, Russian President Medvedev's visit to disputed islands in the Northern Territories and North Korea's revelation of a uranium processing facility and subsequent shelling of South Korean territory. The U.S., too, faces multiple challenges in the region, all of which have been exacerbated by the loss of confidence in the alliance caused by Tokyo's handling of the Futenma controversy and lingering doubts about the DPJ's commitment to the U.S.-Japan relationship. Despite these doubts, policy makers in Washington must recognize that Japan is still an important ally and that the strength of the alliance is central to maintaining stability in East Asia. It is crucial for both Tokyo and Washington to work together to restore the credibility and strength of the alliance, and to do so, they must first overcome the seemingly intractable challenge posed by this basing issue. Luckily, Nakaima's reelection gives Prime Minister Kan and the U.S. some breathing room. Nakaima was initially in favor of the 2006 agreement and only reversed his position when Hatoyama's election pledge made it a political necessity. If given enough time and the right political cover, he may be able to return to that position. Ironically, Kan has an opportunity to take advantage of the security challenges mentioned above to help convince Nakaima that moving forward with the 2006 agreement is best for the security of country. The U.S. could do its part by being flexible on reopening negotiations regarding the base, which may seem unpalatable especially since the last negotiations took fifteen years. However, the negotiations would be much easier since both sides have recognized there is no alternative to the location of the base, and compromising on other less important details such as the number of runways and hours of operation will give Nakaima a chance to claim some sort of victory for the people of Okinawa.


</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
=Impact Turns= 
==China War Good== 
Security competition makes war inevitable
Mearshimer 5 (John, prof of IR and pol sci @ U of Chicago “Clash of the Titans,” Foreign Policy, http://www.ou.edu/uschina/texts/BrzezinskiMearsheimer2005ClashTitans.pdfDonnie
China cannot rise ..contain China’s power

The US navy means the US will win now
Brzezinski 5 (Zbigniew Brzezinski is a counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies Clash of the Titans http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=16538
There will be …would be paralyzed.

War is better now—
First heg!
Modernization devastates US heg
O’Rourke 4/9 (Ronald O'Rourke Specialist in Naval Affairs April 9, 2010China Naval Modernization: Implications for U.S. Navy Capabilities—Background and Issues for Congress http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33153.pdf)
In the absence of …a major world power.

Kagan

(East Asia withdrawal affs only) China’s naval modernization threatens to kick the US navy out—the plan uniquely makes us lose the war
Cheng 10 (Dean Cheng is Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation. “Yo-Ho-Ho and a Bottle of … Mao Tai?” http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/05/yo-ho-ho-and-a-bottle-of-mao-tai//Donnie)//
//What is …rather than later.//

//That causes instability//
//Haselden 2 (Carl B. Haselden Jr “The effects of Korean unification on the US military presence in Northeast Asia” http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0IBR/is_4_32/ai_95447365///Donnie)
The region not …and the global economy.

Landay 2000

Next, Nanoweapons!!
China is developing nano weapons to be used in a future war, this will outweigh nuclear war
Navrozov 07 [Lev, the winner of the Albert Einstein Prize for outstanding intellectual achievements, and more than twenty of his articles are in the United States Congressional Record. He is also president of the nonprofit Center for the Survival of Western Democracies, “Nanotech and Sun Tzu: China's secret weapons?”, Sept 3, http://www.worldtribune.com/worldtribune/WTARC/2007/lev8_31.asp]
In 1945, the …govern a territory of a world.

Third—CCP!!
The US will win now—that’s key to CCP collapse
Ross 5 (Prof Poly Science Boston College, [Assessing the China Threat National Interest Fall, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2751/is_81/ai_n15753420/print]
Improved Chinese capabilities will …and cause its collapse.

Key to democracy
Ma 6 (Ying, visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution on War “China's Stubborn Anti-Democracy” http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/5850//Donnie//
//Simultaneously, the ccp …has remained the same.//

//Chinese Democratization prevents a Sino-Japan War//
//Friedman 2k – Professor of Pol. Sci. at U. Wisconsin//
//(Edward, Hawkins Chair, in “What if China Doesn’t Democratize? Implications for War and Peace, Ed. Edward Friedman and Barrett L. McCormick, p. 99-105)//
//If China does not ….if peace is to prevail.//


//That goes nuclear//
//Lim 05 – Prof. IR at Nanzan U. in Japan//
//(Robyn, Prof. IR – Nanzan U. in Japan, “Geostrategic Trends in Asia”, 1-6, http://www.icasinc.org/2005/2005l/2005lrxl.html)//
//For example, the …of the equation.//


//Forth Economy!!//
//China war is key to ending the recession 5% GDP growth and near full employment//
//Mitha 8/4 (Gulam Mitha is a Process & Safety Engineer in Calgary, Alberta, with over 30 years of experience in the oil and gas processing industry. “Economic Justification For America's Next War” http://brechtforum.org/economic-justification-americas-next-war//Donnie)
December 2007 was …The than make up a fist.

Mead

Fifth, lasers
China is developing laser weapons
Kopp 8 (Dr Carlo Kopp, SMAIAA, MIEEE, Peng “High Energy Laser Directed Energy Weapons” http://www.ausairpower.net/APA-DEW-HEL-Analysis.html//Donnie)//
//A survey of unclassified journal publications in relevant technologies is very revealing, and shows that China does indeed …of beam quality.//

//Extinction//
//Bearden 96 (WEAPONS THAT USE TIME-REVERSED ELECTROMAGNETIC WAVES http://www.cheniere.org/books/excalibur/part4.htm//Donnie
We are referring …psychologically - to face.

2NC/1AR US Will Win
China will lose terribly now—the US navy is more ready and efficient, they will overtake the Chinese navy and blockade them collapsing the Chinese economy—that’s Brezenski More ev, one Trident sub can destroy their entire arsenal 7 times over

Godwin 2K, Prof Intl Affairs National War College, visiting Prof at Chinese National Defense University, 2k (Paul HB Washington Journal of Modern China. China's Defense Modernization: Aspirations and Capabilities http://www.ndu.edu/inss/symposia/pacific2000/godwinpaper.htm)
Although definitely a …to be assured.

Even if the war went nuclear the US would win—China fails now for a few reasons
a.)no early warning system
b.)too small an arsenal
c.)the US knows where the arsenal is
d.)missiles cant launch on time
e.) decoys don’t solve
Lieber and Press 6 (Keir A. Lieber, the author of War and the Engineers: The Primacy of Politics Over Technology, is Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame. Daryl G. Press, the author of Calculating Credibility: How Leaders Assess Military Threats, is Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania. “The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy” http://www.ituassu.com.br/theriseofusnuclearprimacy.pdf//Donnie)//
//China's nuclear arsenal …from fake ones.//

//The missile strikes the aff is afraid of is a farce—China cant launch with DF-31’s//
//Lieber and Press 6 (Keir A. Lieber, the author of War and the Engineers: The Primacy of Politics Over Technology, is Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame. Daryl G. Press, the author of Calculating Credibility: How Leaders Assess Military Threats, is Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania. “The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy” http://www.ituassu.com.br/theriseofusnuclearprimacy.pdf//Donnie)
Even when they …a decade or more.

US spends more—proves we win now
Thompson 10 ( Drew Thompson is director of China studies and Starr senior fellow at the Nixon Center.
“Think Again: China's Military” April/May
http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/think_again_chinas_military?page=0,0//Donnie )//
//Yes, but it depends …U.N. peacekeeping operations.//

//But that’s all about to change, new missiles subs and satellites mean China will be able to win soon//
//Thompson 10 ( Drew Thompson is director of China studies and Starr senior fellow at the Nixon Center. “Think Again: China's Military” April/May//
//http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/think_again_chinas_military?page=0,0//Donnie )
China's military today …and intercept ballistic missiles.

China wont first strike five reasons: Underlying principals, maintaining stability, arms control, reputation, and media
Zhenqiang 5 (Pan Zhenqiang is Professor of International Relations at the Institute for Strategic Studies, National Defence University of the People¡¯s Liberation Army of China, Beijing, where he earlier served as Director of the Institute. Mr. Zhenqiang is a retired Major General of the People¡¯s Liberation Army “China Has Assisted On No First Use of its Nuclear Weapons” http://www.irchina.org/en/news/view.asp?id=403//Donnie )//
//If those reports are…, particularly for China?//
</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
===2NC Inevitable=== 
Security and energy competition with China will escalate proves war is inevitable—that’s Mearshimer
More ev.
a.) China rise causes US containment
Mearshimer 5 (John, prof of IR and pol sci @ U of Chicago “Clash of the Titans,” Foreign Policy, http://www.ou.edu/uschina/texts/BrzezinskiMearsheimer2005ClashTitans.pdfDonnie
Why should we …during the Cold War.

b.) Economics wont deter conflict
Mearshimer 5 (John, prof of IR and pol sci @ U of Chicago “Clash of the Titans,” Foreign Policy, http://www.ou.edu/uschina/texts/BrzezinskiMearsheimer2005ClashTitans.pdf//Donnie//
//You also argue …to deal with Taiwan.//

//c.) China ambition//
//Mearshimer 5 (John, prof of IR and pol sci @ U of Chicago “Clash of the Titans,” Foreign Policy, http://www.ou.edu/uschina/texts/BrzezinskiMearsheimer2005ClashTitans.pdf//Donnie
If the Chinese are …hegemon appears in Asia.

d.)Chinese nationalism and public
Thompson 10 ( Drew Thompson is director of China studies and Starr senior fellow at the Nixon Center.
“Think Again: China's Military” April/May
http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/think_again_chinas_military?page=0,0//Donnie )//
//Some wonder whether …other powers.//

//e.) transition from communism to fascism and US debt//
//Frisch 05 Research Ed/geopolitical analyst for HSL(Itntl. investment,economic, geopolitical newsletter) (Gordon, Commentary on Global Issues, 3/5 http://www.jrnyquist.com/frisch_2005_0621.htm)//
//The continent of Asia …borrowed from PACOM.//

//f.)Most recent evidence proves China war is inevitable//
//Klare 9/19 (Michael T. Klare is a professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College and the author, most recently, of Rising Powers, Shrinking Planet. “Twenty-First Century Energy Superpower” http://www.truth-out.org/twenty-first-century-energy-superpower63382//Donnie)
What will happen under …shake the world
</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
==North Korea War Good== 
First—US North Korea War is inevitable—diplomatic stalemates and proliferation
The Observer 3 (North Korea and the US 'on a slide towards conflict'
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2003/apr/06/usa.northkorea
War in North Korea …deported UN monitors.

And, North Korea would lose the war horribly—we spend 1000 times more on our military and Russia and China each got our back—their nukes cannot even each our soil
Feffer 9(John Feffer Co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus North Korea Attacking Hawaii? http://www.huffingtonpost.com/john-feffer/north-korea-attacking-haw_b_219837.html //Donnie)//
//North Korea has …close to home.//


//But North Korea is modernizing—they become more of a missile threat every day—they cant hit the US now but they will be able to nuke us soon—war is better now—this means we access their terminal impact through delay but they don’t because war would mean nothing now//
//Klingner 3/11 Bruce Klingner is Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation.//
//New North Korean Missile Unit Reflects Growing Missile Threat http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/03/New-North-Korean-Missile-Unit-Reflects-Growing-Missile-Threat// Donnie
North Korea has …2009 test flight.

US war with North Korea would guarantee the US take out all of Nkorea’s nuclear weapons—we would launch an air strike that would be successful because we a.)already know where the nukes are and b. the Nkorean’s only have 16 aircraft—this will solve Nkorean prolif which causes an east asian arms race
Robinson and Baker 3 (Colin RobinsonRear Adm. (Ret.) Stephen H. Baker
Senior Fellow Center for Defense Information CDI Research AnalystStand-off with North Korea: War Scenarios and Consequences http://www.cdi.org/north-korea/north-korea-crisis.pdf //Donnie)
The United States, not …2.5 million people.

North Korea with nukes causes nuclear terrorism
Mandelbaum 5 ( Michael is a prof of American foreign policy at the John Hopkins University of Advanced International Studies “The Case for Goliath “ pg 191)
A North Korean …for financial gain.

Sid-Ahmed</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
=**IHSA Neg**= 
==War on Terror Neg== 
===1NC case Frontline=== 
Mearshimer 95 (IR prof @ University of Chitown boooiii “Liberal talk, realist thinking” http://www.irchina.org/en/xueren/foreign/view.asp?id=44 //Donnie)//
//Liberalism and realism are the two bodies of theory which hold places of privilege on the theoretical menu of international relations. Most of the great intellectual battles among international relations scholars take place either across the divide between realism and liberalism, or within those paradigms. The liberal tradition has its roots in the Enlightenment, that period in 18th-century Europe when intellectuals and political leaders had a powerful sense that reason could be employed to make the world a better place. Accordingly, liberals tend to be hopeful about the prospects of making the world safer and more peaceful. Most liberals believe that it is possible to substantially reduce the scourge of war and to increase international prosperity. For this reason, liberal theories are sometimes labeled "utopian" or "idealist." Liberalism’s optimistic view of international politics is based on three core beliefs, which are common to almost all of the theories in the paradigm. First, liberals consider states to be the main actors in international politics. Second, they emphasize that the internal characteristics of states vary considerably, and that these differences have profound effects on state behavior. Furthermore, liberal theorists often believe that some internal arrangements (e.g., democracy) are inherently preferable to others (e.g., dictatorship). For liberals, therefore, there are "good" and "bad" states in the international system. Good states pursue cooperative policies and hardly ever start wars on their own, whereas bad states cause conflicts with other states and are prone to use force to get their way. Thus, the key to peace is to populate the world with good states. Third, liberals believe that calculations about power matter little for explaining the behavior of good states. Other kinds of political and economic calculations matter more, although the form of those calculations varies from theory to theory. Bad states might be motivated by the desire to gain power at the expense of other states, but that is only because they are misguided. In an ideal world, where there are only good states, power would be largely irrelevant. In contrast to liberals, realists are pessimists when it comes to international politics. Realists agree that creating a peaceful world would be desirable, but they see no easy way to escape the harsh world of security competition and war. Creating a peaceful world is surely an attractive idea, but it is not a practical one. "Realism," as E. H. Carr notes, "tends to emphasize the irresistible strength of existing forces and the inevitable character of existing tendencies, and to insist that the highest wisdom lies in accepting, and adapting oneself to these forces and these tendencies." This gloomy view of international relations is based on three core beliefs. First, realists, like liberals, treat states as the principal actors in world politics. Realists focus mainly on great powers, however, because these states dominate and shape international politics and they also cause the deadliest wars. Second, realists believe that the behavior of great powers is influenced mainly by their external environment, not by their internal characteristics. The structure of the international system, which all states must deal with, largely shapes their foreign policies. Realists tend not to draw sharp distinctions between "good" and "bad" states, because all great powers act according to the same logic regardless of their culture, political system, or who runs the government. It is therefore difficult to discriminate among states, save for differences in relative power. In essence, great powers are like billiard balls that vary only in size. Third, realists hold that calculations about power dominate states’ thinking, and that states compete for power among themselves. That competition sometimes necessitates going to war, which is considered an acceptable instrument of statecraft. To quote Carl von Clausewitz, the 19th-century military strategist, war is a continuation of politics by other means. Finally, a zero-sum quality characterizes that competition, sometimes making it intense and unforgiving. States may cooperate with each other on occasion, but at root they have conflicting interests. Although there are many realist theories dealing with different aspects of power, two of them stand above the others: human nature realism, which is laid out in Hans Morgenthau’s Politics among Nations (1948), and defensive realism, which is primarily presented in Kenneth Waltz’s Theory of International Politics (1979). What sets these works apart from those of other realists and makes them both important and controversial is that they explain why states pursue power-that is, they have a story to tell about the causes of security competition-and each offers an argument about how much power a state is likely to want. Human nature realism, which is sometimes called "classical realism," dominated the study of international relations from the late 1940s, when the writings of Morgenthau (who taught at Chicago) began attracting a large audience, until the early 1970s. It is based on the simple assumption that states are led by human beings who have a "will to power" hardwired into them at birth. That is, states have an insatiable appetite for power, or what Morgenthau calls a "limitless lust for power," which means that they constantly look for opportunities to take the offensive and dominate other states. All states come with an "animus dominandi," so there is no basis for discriminating among more aggressive and less aggressive states, and there certainly should be no room in the theory for status quo states. Human nature realists recognize that international anarchy-the absence of a governing authority over the great powers-causes states to worry about the balance of power. But that structural constraint is treated as a second-order cause of state behavior. The principal driving force in international politics is the will to power inherent in every state in the system, and it pushes them to strive for supremacy. Defensive realism, which is frequently referred to as "structural realism," came on the scene in the late 1970s with the appearance of Waltz’s Theory of International Politics. Unlike Morgenthau, Waltz does not assume that great powers are inherently aggressive because they are infused with a will to power; instead he starts by assuming that states merely aim to survive. Above all else, they seek security. Nevertheless, he maintains that the structure of the international system forces great powers to pay careful attention to the balance of power. In particular, anarchy forces security-seeking states to compete with each other for power, because power is the best means to survival. Whereas human nature is the deep cause of security competition in Morgenthau’s theory, anarchy plays that role in Waltz’s theory. Waltz does not emphasize, however, that the international system provides great powers with good reasons to act offensively to gain power. Instead, he appears to make the opposite case: that anarchy encourages states to behave defensively and to maintain rather than upset the balance of power. "The first concern of states," he writes, is "to maintain their position in the system." There seems to be, as international relations theorist Randall Schweller notes, "a status quo bias" in Waltz’s theory. Waltz recognizes that states have incentives to gain power at their rivals’ expense and that it makes good strategic sense to act on that motive when the time is right. But he does not develop that line of argument in any detail. On the contrary, he emphasizes that when great powers behave aggressively, the potential victims usually balance against the aggressor and thwart its efforts to gain power. For Waltz, in short, balancing checkmates offense. Furthermore, he stresses that great powers must be careful not to acquire too much power, because "excessive strength" is likely to cause other states to join forces against them, thereby leaving them worse off than they would have been had they refrained from seeking additional increments of power. Waltz’s views on the causes of war further reflect his theory’s status quo bias. There are no profound or deep causes of war in his theory. In particular, he does not suggest that there might be important benefits to be gained from war. In fact, he says little about the causes of war, other than to argue that wars are largely the result of uncertainty and miscalculation. In other words, if states knew better, they would not start wars. As with defensive realism, my theory-offensive realism-sees great powers as concerned mainly with figuring out how to survive in a world where there is no agency to protect them from each other; they quickly realize that power is the key to their survival. Offensive realism parts company with defensive realism over the question of how much power states want. For defensive realists, the international structure provides states with little incentive to seek additional increments of power; instead it pushes them to maintain the existing balance of power. Preserving power, rather than increasing it, is the main goal of states. Offensive realists, on the other hand, believe that status quo powers are rarely found in world politics, because the international system creates powerful incentives for states to look for opportunities to gain power at the expense of rivals, and to take advantage of those situations when the benefits outweigh the costs. A state’s ultimate goal is to be the hegemon in the system. It should be apparent that both offensive realism and human nature realism portray great powers as relentlessly seeking power. The key difference between the two perspectives is that offensive realists reject Morgenthau’s claim that states are naturally endowed with Type A personalities. On the contrary, they believe that the international system forces great powers to maximize their relative power because that is the optimal way to maximize their security. In other words, survival mandates aggressive behavior. Great powers behave aggressively not because they want to or because they possess some inner drive to dominate, but because they have to seek more power if they want to maximize their odds of survival. Probably the best brief for offensive realism is a short, obscure book written during World War I by G. Lowes Dickinson, a British academic who was an early advocate of the League of Nations. In The European Anarchy, he argues that the root cause of World War I "was not Germany nor any other power. The real culprit was the European anarchy," which created powerful incentives for states "to acquire supremacy over the others for motives at once of security and domination." WHATEVER MERITS REALISM may have as an explanation for real-world politics and as a guide for formulating foreign policy, it is not a popular school of thought in the West. Realism’s central message-that it makes good sense for states to selfishly pursue power-does not have broad appeal. It is difficult to imagine a modern political leader openly asking the public to fight and die to improve the balance of power. No European or American leader did so during either world war or the Cold War. Most people prefer to think of fights between their own state and rival states as clashes between good and evil, where they are on the side of the angels and their opponents are aligned with the devil. Thus, leaders tend to portray war as a moral crusade or an ideological contest, rather than as a struggle for power. Realism is a hard sell. Americans appear to have an especially intense antipathy toward balance-of-power thinking. The rhetoric of 20th-century presidents, for example, is filled with examples of realism bashing. Woodrow Wilson is probably the most well-known example of this tendency, because of his eloquent campaign against balance-of-power politics during and immediately after World War I. Yet Wilson is hardly unique, and his successors have frequently echoed his views. In the final year of World War II, for example, Franklin Delano Roosevelt declared, "In the future world the misuse of power as implied in the term ’power politics’ must not be the controlling factor in international relations." More recently, Bill Clinton offered a strikingly similar view, proclaiming that "in a world where freedom, not tyranny, is on the march, the cynical calculus of pure power politics simply does not compute. It is ill-suited to a new era." He sounded the same theme when defending NATO expansion in 1997, arguing that the charge that this policy might isolate Russia was based on the mistaken belief "that the great power territorial politics of the 20th century will dominate the 21st century." Instead, Clinton emphasized his belief that "enlightened self-interest, as well as shared values, will compel countries to define their greatness in more constructive ways … and will compel us to cooperate." Americans tend to be hostile to realism because it clashes with their basic values. Realism stands opposed to Americans’ views of both themselves and the wider world. In particular, realism is at odds with the deep-seated sense of optimism and moralism that pervades much of American society. Liberalism, on the other hand, fits neatly with those values. Not surprisingly, foreign policy discourse in the United States often sounds as if it has been lifted right out of a Liberalism 101 lecture. Americans are basically optimists. They regard progress in politics, whether at the national or the international level, as both desirable and possible. As the French author Alexis de Tocqueville observed long ago, Americans believe that "man is endowed with an indefinite faculty of improvement." Realism, by contrast, offers a pessimistic perspective on international politics. It depicts a world rife with security competition and war, and, to quote Morgenthau, holds out little promise of "escape from the evil of power, regardless of what one does." Such pessimism is at odds with the powerful American belief that with time and effort, reasonable individuals can cooperate to solve important social problems. Liberalism offers a more hopeful perspective on world politics, and Americans naturally find it more attractive than the gloomy specter drawn by realism. Americans are also prone to believe that morality should play an important role in politics. As the prominent sociologist Seymour Martin Lipset writes, "Americans are utopian moralists who press hard to institutionalize virtue, to destroy evil people, and eliminate wicked institutions and practices." This perspective clashes with the realist belief that war is an intrinsic element of life in the international system. Most Americans tend to think of war as a hideous enterprise that should ultimately be abolished from the face of the Earth. It might justifiably be used for lofty liberal goals like fighting tyranny or spreading democracy, but it is morally incorrect to fight wars merely to change or preserve the balance of power. This makes the Clausewitzian conception of warfare anathema to most Americans. The American proclivity for moralizing also conflicts with the fact that realists tend not to distinguish between good and bad states, but instead discriminate between states largely on the basis of their relative power capabilities. A purely realist interpretation of the Cold War, for example, allows for no meaningful difference in the motives behind American and Soviet behavior during that conflict. According to realist theory, both sides were driven by their concerns about the balance of power, and each did what it could to maximize its relative power. Most Americans would recoil at this interpretation of the Cold War, however, because they believe the United States was motivated by good intentions while the Soviet Union was not. Liberal theorists do distinguish between good and bad states, of course, and they usually identify liberal democracies with market economies as the most worthy. Not surprisingly, Americans tend to like this perspective, because it identifies the United States as a benevolent force in world politics and portrays its real and potential rivals as misguided or malevolent troublemakers. Predictably, this line of thinking fueled the euphoria that attended the downfall of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War. When the "evil empire" collapsed, many Americans (and Europeans) concluded that democracy would spread across the globe and that world peace would soon break out. This optimism was based largely on the belief that democratic America is a virtuous state. If other states emulated the United States, therefore, the world would be populated by good states, and this development could only mean the end of international conflict. Because Americans dislike realpolitik, public discourse about foreign policy in the United States is usually couched in the language of liberalism. Hence the pronouncements of the policy elites are heavily flavored with optimism and moralism. American academics are especially good at promoting liberal thinking in the marketplace of ideas. Behind closed doors, however, the elites who make national security policy speak mostly the language of power, not that of principle, and the United States acts in the international system according to the dictates of realist logic. In essence, a discernible gap separates public rhetoric from the actual conduct of American foreign policy. Prominent realists have often criticized U.S. diplomacy on the grounds that it is too idealistic and have complained that American leaders pay insufficient attention to the balance of power. For example, George Kennan wrote in 1951, "I see the most serious fault of our past policy formulation to lie in something that I might call the legalistic-moralistic approach to international problems. This approach runs like a red skein through our foreign policy of the last 50 years." According to this line of argument, there is no real gap between America’s liberal rhetoric and its foreign policy behavior, because the United States practices what it preaches. But this claim is wrong. American foreign policy has usually been guided by realist logic, although the public pronouncements of its leaders might lead one to think otherwise. It should be obvious to intelligent observers that the United States speaks one way and acts another. In fact, policymakers in other states have always remarked about this tendency in American foreign policy. As long ago as 1939, for example, Carr pointed out that states on the European continent regard the English-speaking peoples as "masters in the art of concealing their selfish national interests in the guise of the general good," adding that "this kind of hypocrisy is a special and characteristic peculiarity of the Anglo-Saxon mind." Still, the gap between rhetoric and reality usually goes unnoticed in the United States itself. Two factors account for this phenomenon. First, realist policies sometimes coincide with the dictates of liberalism, in which case there is no conflict between the pursuit of power and the pursuit of principle. Under these circumstances, realist policies can be justified with liberal rhetoric without having to discuss the underlying power realities. This coincidence makes for an easy sell. For example, the United States fought against fascism in World War II and communism in the Cold War for largely realist reasons. But both of those fights were also consistent with liberal principles, and thus policymakers had little trouble selling them to the public as ideological conflicts. Second, when power considerations force the United States to act in ways that conflict with liberal principles, "spin doctors" appear and tell a story that accords with liberal ideals. For example, in the late 19th century, American elites generally considered Germany to be a progressive constitutional state worthy of emulation. But the American view of Germany changed in the decade before World War I, as relations between the two states deteriorated. By the time the United States declared war on Germany in April 1917, Americans had come to see Germany as more autocratic and militaristic than its European rivals. Similarly, during the late 1930s, many Americans saw the Soviet Union as an evil state, partly in response to Josef Stalin’s murderous internal policies and his infamous alliance with Nazi Germany in August 1939. Nevertheless, when the United States joined forces with the Soviet Union in late 1941 to fight against the Third Reich, the U.S. government began a massive public relations campaign to clean up the image of America’s new ally and make it compatible with liberal ideals. The Soviet Union was now portrayed as a proto-democracy, and Stalin became "Uncle Joe." How is it possible to get away with this contradiction between rhetoric and policy? Most Americans readily accept these rationalizations because liberalism is so deeply rooted in their culture. As a result, they find it easy to believe that they are acting according to cherished principles, rather than cold and calculated power considerations.//

//Realism is inevitable—no impact uniqueness//
//Solomon 96 (Hussein Solomon Senior Researcher, Human Security Project, Institute for Defence Policy “In Defence of Realism: Confessions of a Fallen Idealist” http://www.iss.co.za/pubs/ASR/5No2/5No2/InDefence.html//Donnie)
The post-modern/critical theory challenge to realism has been tested, and proved wanting. Realism remains the single most reliable analytical framework through which to understand and evaluate global change. Post-modernism can provide no practical alternatives to the realist paradigm. We know what a realist world looks like (we are living in one!); but what does a post-modernist world look like? As long as humanity is motivated by hate, envy, greed and egotism, realism will continue to be invaluable to the policy-maker and the scholar. In this regard it has to be pointed out that from the end of World War II until 1992, hundreds of major conflicts around the world have left some twenty million human beings dead.109 Neither has the end of the Cold War showed any sign that such conflict will end. By the end of 1993 a record of 53 wars were being waged in 37 countries across the globe.110 Until a fundamental change in human nature occurs, realism will continue to dominate the discipline of international relations. The most fundamental problem with post-modernism is that it assumes a more optimistic view of human nature. Srebrenica, Bihac, Tuzla, Zeppa, Goma, Chechnya, Ogoniland, and KwaZulu-Natal all bear testimony to the folly of such a view.

More evidence, realism is inevitable: the international system is anarchic; states have offensive military capabilities, states can never be sure of other states’ intentions, survival is the primary goal of states, and states are rational actors.
John J. Mearsheimer, Distinguished Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, 2001 (The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, Published by W. W. Norton & Company, ISBN 0393020258, p. 30-31)
How important is it that these assumptions be realistic? Some social scientists argue that the assumptions that underpin a theory need not conform to reality. Indeed, the economist Milton Friedman maintains that the best theories "will be found to have assumptions that are wildly inaccurate descriptive representations of reality, and, in general, the more significant the theory the more unrealistic the assumptions."2 According to this view, the explanatory power of a theory is all that matters. If unrealistic assumptions lead to a theory that tells us a lot about how the world works, it is of no importance whether the underlying assumptions are realistic or not. I reject this view. Although I agree that explanatory power is the ultimate criterion for assessing theories, I also believe that a theory based on unrealistic or false assumptions will not explain much about how the world works.3 Sound theories are based on sound assumptions. Accordingly, each of these five assumptions is a reasonably accurate representation of an important aspect of life in the international system. Bedrock Assumptions The first assumption is that the international system is anarchic, which does not mean that it is chaotic or riven by disorder. It is easy to draw that conclusion, since realism depicts a world characterized by security competition and war. By itself, however, the realist notion of anarchy has nothing to do with conflict; it is an ordering principle which says that the system comprises independent states that have no central authority above them.4 Sovereignty, in other words, inheres in states because there is no higher ruling body in the international system.5 There is no "government over governments.”6 The second assumption is that great powers inherently possess some offensive military capability which gives them the wherewithal to hurt and possibly destroy each other. States are potentially dangerous to each other, although some states have more military might than others and are therefore more dangerous. A state’s military power is usually identified with the particular weaponry at its disposal, although even if there were no weapons, the individuals in those states could still use their feet and hands to attack the population of another state. After all. for every neck, there are two hands to choke it. The third assumption is that states can never be certain about other states’ intentions. Specifically, no state can be sure that another state will not use its offensive military capability to attack the first state. This is not to say that states necessarily have hostile intentions. Indeed, all of the states in the system may be reliably benign, but it is impossible to be sure of that judgment because intentions are impossible to divine with 100 percent certainty.7 There are many possible causes of aggression, and no state can be sure that another state is not motivated by one of them.8 Furthermore, intentions can change quickly, so a state's intentions can be benign one day and hostile the next. Uncertainty about intentions is unavoidable, which means that states can never be sure that other states do not have offensive intentions to go along with their offensive capabilities. The fourth assumption is that survival is the primary goal of great powers. Specifically, states seek to maintain their territorial integrity and the autonomy of their domestic political order. Survival dominates other motives because once a state is conquered it is unlikely to be in a position to pursue other aims. Soviet leader Josef Stalin put the point well during a war scare in 1927: “We can and must build socialism in the [Soviet Union]. But in order to do so we first of all have to exist.”9 States can and do pursue other goals, of course, but security is their most important objective. The fifth assumption is that great powers are rational actors. They are aware of their external environment and they think strategically about how to survive in it. In particular, they consider the preferences of other states and how their own behavior is likely to affect the behavior of those other states, and how the behavior of those other states is likely to affect their own strategy for survival. Moreover, states pay attention to the long term as well as the immediate consequences of their actions.

Withdrawal from Iraq and Afghanistan is not sufficient.
Katz 11 (Mark N. Katz is a Visiting Senior Fellow at the Middle East Policy Council and a Professor of Government at George Mason University. http://www.mepc.org/articles-commentary/commentary/american-foreign-policy-and-regional-and-local-conflicts-war-terror //Donnie)//
//It is, of course, not clear how well the changes in American foreign policy proposed here would actually work. It is even less clear that American foreign policy toward the four problems discussed here can actually change significantly — at least, in the short run. Yet, even if the United States did adopt the policies proposed here and all of them were successful, the “War on Terror” still would not end. There are plenty of other regional and local conflicts remaining to feed it: Chechnya and other Muslim nationalisms in Russia; Uighur nationalism in Xinjiang (China’s northwestern province); the Moro rebellion in the southern Philippines (which has actually been going on, to a greater or lesser extent, since the late nineteenth century); the clash between Muslims and Buddhists in southern Thailand; Kashmir and the status of Muslims generally in India; Lebanon’s seemingly eternal confessional clashes; the collapsed state of Somalia; the status of Muslims in Europe and more. In addition, there is the problem of so many predominantly Muslim countries being ruled by authoritarian regimes (whether pro- or anti-American) that do not permit democratic reform or even allow democratic opposition. This drives many of those seeking change into the ranks of seemingly more powerful non-democratic, radical Islamist opposition movements. The United States cannot resolve all these problems. Indeed, Washington may not be able to resolve any of them, including the four discussed here. The “War on Terror,” then, is likely to continue after the United States withdraws from Iraq and Afghanistan. The next article in this series will, therefore, examine the likelihood of different future scenarios for the “War on Terror.”//

//Your speech act does not end the war on terrorism—these power structures are inevitable despite narrative framing.//
//Chernus 11 (Ira Chernus is Professor of Religious Studies at the University of Colorado at Boulder and author of Monsters To Destroy: The Neoconservative War on Terror and Sin. “Why Are We Still in Afghanistan?” Jan. 20. http://www.counterpunch.org/chernus01202011.html// Donnie)
And there's the problem. Myths are like scientific theories. No mountain of facts and logic, however convincing, can change believers' minds -- until a more convincing myth comes along. A handful of progressive political thinkers are trying to persuade the American left to understand this truth and start offering new political myths (their technical term is "framing narratives"). George Lakoff is probably the best known. His books are bestsellers. His articles on websites invariably go to the top of "most read" and "most emailed" lists. Yet he can't seem to make much of a dent in the actual policies and practices he'd like to change. Progressives still shower the public with facts and arguments that are hard to refute, as (in the case of the Afghan War) the American people know. After all, more than 60% of them now tell pollsters that the war was a "mistake." Yet the war goes on and progressives remain the most marginal of players in the American political game because they don't have a great myth to offer. In fact, they've hardly got any good ones. Political scientist David Ricci claims there's not much progressives can do about it, precisely because they already have one very successful myth that prevents them -- oh, the irony! -- from taking the power of myths seriously. The progressive heritage, as he tells it, goes back to the eighteenth century Enlightenment, when the radicals of the day decided that fact and logic were the source of all truth and the only path to peace and freedom. The Bible and all the other ancient tales bind us to the past, they argued. As a result, humanity was letting dead people lock us into the injustices that bred endless war and suffering. It was time to let human reason open up a better future. If progressives believe they are myth-less, though, they're blind to the one mythic plot they share with the rest of America: good against evil. Progressives act out that myth on the political battlefield every day, passionately fighting to defeat right-wing evildoers. The problem is (and forgive me for repeating an old anti-left cliché of the 1960s, but it's true here): the progressives' political myth tells only what they're against, not what they're for. In fact, deep down, most progressives do have a dim sense of their deepest principles: the Enlightenment ideals of peace, freedom, and equality based on the Romantic ideal of what Lakoff calls empathy, extended to all humanity and the biosphere as well. But progressives don't wrap their policy prescriptions in mythic language that says clearly, simply, and patriotically what they're for. As a result, they can't compete with the myth of national insecurity. They've got nothing to offer in its place, which is at least one reason why, despite growing opposition to the Afghan War, they can't build a strong enough constituency to help -- or force -- Obama to end it. All they can do is demand that he sacrifice his domestic agenda, and -- no small matter for any politician -- his second-term chances, on the altar of principle. As a result, they end up in a political never-never-land, which might feel good but isn't going to save a single Afghan life. No individual, much less a committee, can sit down and create a new myth. Myths grow organically from the life of a community. Progressives would find their myth emerging spontaneously if they just spent a lot more time thinking and talking about their most basic worldview and values, the underlying premises that lead them to hold their political positions with such passion.

Their universal state demand gets co-opted by those in power—empirically proven
Zizek 7 (Slavoj, “Resistance Is Surrender” http://www.lrb.co.uk/v29/n22/slavoj-zizek/resistance-is-surrender/print //Donnie)//
//So what should, say, the US Democrats do? Stop competing for state power and withdraw to the interstices of the state, leaving state power to the Republicans and start a campaign of anarchic resistance to it? And what would Critchley do if he were facing an adversary like Hitler? Surely in such a case one should ‘mimic and mirror the archic violent sovereignty’ one opposes? Shouldn’t the Left draw a distinction between the circumstances in which one would resort to violence in confronting the state, and those in which all one can and should do is use ‘mocking satire and feather dusters’? The ambiguity of Critchley’s position resides in a strange non sequitur: if the state is here to stay, if it is impossible to abolish it (or capitalism), why retreat from it? Why not act with(in) the state? Why not accept the basic premise of the Third Way? Why limit oneself to a politics which, as Critchley puts it, ‘calls the state into question and calls the established order to account, not in order to do away with the state, desirable though that might well be in some utopian sense, but in order to better it or attenuate its malicious effect’? These words simply demonstrate that today’s liberal-democratic state and the dream of an ‘infinitely demanding’ anarchic politics exist in a relationship of mutual parasitism: anarchic agents do the ethical thinking, and the state does the work of running and regulating society. Critchley’s anarchic ethico-political agent acts like a superego, comfortably bombarding the state with demands; and the more the state tries to satisfy these demands, the more guilty it is seen to be. In compliance with this logic, the anarchic agents focus their protest not on open dictatorships, but on the hypocrisy of liberal democracies, who are accused of betraying their own professed principles. The big demonstrations in London and Washington against the US attack on Iraq a few years ago offer an exemplary case of this strange symbiotic relationship between power and resistance. Their paradoxical outcome was that both sides were satisfied. The protesters saved their beautiful souls: they made it clear that they don’t agree with the government’s policy on Iraq. Those in power calmly accepted it, even profited from it: not only did the protests in no way prevent the already-made decision to attack Iraq; they also served to legitimise it. Thus George Bush’s reaction to mass demonstrations protesting his visit to London, in effect: ‘You see, this is what we are fighting for, so that what people are doing here – protesting against their government policy – will be possible also in Iraq!’ It is striking that the course on which Hugo Chávez has embarked since 2006 is the exact opposite of the one chosen by the postmodern Left: far from resisting state power, he grabbed it (first by an attempted coup, then democratically), ruthlessly using the Venezuelan state apparatuses to promote his goals. Furthermore, he is militarising the barrios, and organising the training of armed units there. And, the ultimate scare: now that he is feeling the economic effects of capital’s ‘resistance’ to his rule (temporary shortages of some goods in the state-subsidised supermarkets), he has announced plans to consolidate the 24 parties that support him into a single party. Even some of his allies are sceptical about this move: will it come at the expense of the popular movements that have given the Venezuelan revolution its élan? However, this choice, though risky, should be fully endorsed: the task is to make the new party function not as a typical state socialist (or Peronist) party, but as a vehicle for the mobilisation of new forms of politics (like the grass roots slum committees). What should we say to someone like Chávez? ‘No, do not grab state power, just withdraw, leave the state and the current situation in place’? Chávez is often dismissed as a clown – but wouldn’t such a withdrawal just reduce him to a version of Subcomandante Marcos, whom many Mexican leftists now refer to as ‘Subcomediante Marcos’? Today, it is the great capitalists – Bill Gates, corporate polluters, fox hunters – who ‘resist’ the state. The lesson here is that the truly subversive thing is not to insist on ‘infinite’ demands we know those in power cannot fulfil. Since they know that we know it, such an ‘infinitely demanding’ attitude presents no problem for those in power: ‘So wonderful that, with your critical demands, you remind us what kind of world we would all like to live in. Unfortunately, we live in the real world, where we have to make do with what is possible.’ The thing to do is, on the contrary, to bombard those in power with strategically well-selected, precise, finite demands, which can’t be met with the same excuse.//

//Monocausality obscures the actual root of violence—makes it inevitable//
//Brian Martin, Uprooting War, 1990 edition http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/90uw/uw13.html//
//In this chapter and in the six preceding chapters I have examined a number of structures and factors which have some connection with the war system. There is much more that could be said about any one of these structures, and other factors which could be examined. Here I wish to note one important point: attention should not be focussed on one single factor to the exclusion of others. This is often done for example by some Marxists who look only at capitalism as a root of war and other social problems, and by some feminists who attribute most problems to patriarchy. The danger of monocausal explanations is that they may lead to an inadequate political practice. The ‘revolution’ may be followed by the persistence or even expansion of many problems which were not addressed by the single-factor perspective.//
//The one connecting feature which I perceive in the structures underlying war is an unequal distribution of power. This unequal distribution is socially organised in many different ways, such as in the large-scale structures for state administration, in capitalist ownership, in male domination within families and elsewhere, in control over knowledge by experts, and in the use of force by the military. Furthermore, these different systems of power are interconnected. They often support each other, and sometimes conflict. This means that the struggle against war can and must be undertaken at many different levels. It ranges from struggles to undermine state power to struggles to undermine racism, sexism and other forms of domination at the level of the individual and the local community. Furthermore, the different struggles need to be linked together. That is the motivation for analysing the roots of war and developing strategies for grassroots movements to uproot them.//

//Our large scale impacts outweigh their tiny ones—the only moral choice you can make is to vote for the best outcome in terms of body count//
//Anders Sandberg, Jason G. Matheny, and Milan M. Ćirković “How can we reduce the risk of human extinction?” Sep. 9, 2008 http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/how-can-we-reduce-the-risk-of-human-extinction//Donnie
Humanity could be extinguished as early as this century by succumbing to natural hazards, such as an extinction-level asteroid or comet impact, supervolcanic eruption, global methane-hydrate release, or nearby supernova or gamma-ray burst. (Perhaps the most probable of these hazards, supervolcanism, was discovered only in the last 25 years, suggesting that other natural hazards may remain unrecognized.) Fortunately the probability of any one of these events killing off our species is very low--less than one in 100 million per year, given what we know about their past frequency. But as improbable as these events are, measures to reduce their probability can still be worthwhile. For instance, investments in asteroid detection and deflection technologies cost less, per life saved, than most investments in medicine. While an extinction-level asteroid impact is very unlikely, its improbability is outweighed by its potential death toll. Perhaps least controversial, we should invest more in efforts to enumerate the risks to human survival and the means to mitigate them. We need more interdisciplinary research in quantitative risk assessment, probability theory, and technology forecasting. And we need to build a worldwide community of experts from various fields concerned about global catastrophic risks. Human extinction may, in the long run, be inevitable. But just as we work to secure a long life for individuals, even when our eventual death is assured, we should work to secure a long life for our species.

There will never be some happy era of peace—war is inevitable
Kagan 7 (Robert is senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund “End of Dreams, Return of History” http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html/Donnie
When the Cold War ended, it was possible to imagine that the world had been utterly changed: the end of international competition, the end of geopolitics, the end of history. When in the first decade after the Cold War people began describing the new era of "globalization," the common expectation was that the phenomenon of instantaneous global communications, the free flow of goods and services, the rapid transmission of ideas and information, and the intermingling and blending of cultures would further knit together a world that had already just patched up the great ideological and geopolitical tears of the previous century. "Globalization" was to the late twentieth century what "sweet commerce" was to the late eighteenth -- an anticipated balm for a war-weary world.
In the 1990s serious thinkers predicted the end of wars and military confrontations among great powers. European "postmodernism" seemed to be the future: the abandonment of power politics in favor of international institutions capable of managing the disagreements among nations. Even today, there are those who believe the world is moving along the same path as the European Union. John Ikenberry recently described the post-Cold War era, the decade of the 1990s, as a liberal paradise:
NAFTA, APEC, and the WTO signaled a strengthening of the rules and institutions of the world economy. NATO was expanded and the U.S.-Japan alliance was renewed. Russia became a quasi-member of the West and China was a "strategic partner" with Washington. Clinton's grand strategy of building post-Cold War order around expanding markets, democracy, and institutions was the triumphant embodiment of the liberal vision of international order. 22
Perhaps it was these grand expectations of a new era for humankind that helped spur the anger and outrage at American policies of the past decade. It is not that those policies are in themselves so different, or in any way out of character for the United States. It is that to many people in Europe and even in the United States, they have seemed jarringly out of place in a world that was supposed to have moved on.
As we now know, however, both nationalism and ideology were already making their comeback in the 1990s. Russia had ceased to be and no longer desired to be a "quasi-member" of the West, and partly because of NATO enlargement. China was already on its present trajectory and had already determined that American hegemony was a threat to its ambitions. The forces of radical Islam had already begun their jihad, globalization had already caused a backlash around the world, and the juggernaut of democracy had already stalled and begun to tip precariously.
After the Second World War, another moment in history when hopes for a new kind of international order were rampant, Hans Morgenthau warned idealists against imagining that at some point "the final curtain would fall and the game of power politics would no longer be played. " But the world struggle continued then, and it continues today. Six decades ago American leaders believed the United States had the unique ability and the unique responsibility to use its power to prevent a slide back to the circumstances that produced two world wars and innumerable national calamities. Although much has changed since then, America 's responsibility has not.</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
===1NC Heg DA=== 
Their advocacy kills US leadership—causes a power vacuum that makes war and atrocity inevitable
Ferguson 4 (Niall, professor of history at NYU and a senior fellow of the Hoover Institution, is the author of "Colossus: The Price of America's Empire" The End of Power Without American hegemony the world would likely return to the dark ages. http://www.opinionjournal.com/editorial/feature.html?id=110005244//Donnie)
Suppose, in a worst-case scenario, that U.S. neoconservativism meets its match in Iraq and that the Bush administration's project to democratize the Middle East at gunpoint ends in withdrawal: from empire to decolonization in 24 months. Suppose also that no rival power shows interest in filling the resulting vacuums--not only in Iraq but conceivably also Afghanistan, to say nothing of the Balkans and Haiti. What would an "apolar" future look like? The answer is not easy, since there have been very few periods in history with no contenders for the role of global or at least regional hegemon. The nearest approximation might be the 1920s, when the U.S. walked away from Woodrow Wilson's project of global democracy and collective security. But that power vacuum was short-lived. The West Europeans quickly snapped up the leftovers of Ottoman rule in the Middle East, while the Bolsheviks reassembled the Tsarist empire. Indeed, one must go back much further in history to find a period of true and enduring apolarity; as far back, in fact, as the ninth and 10th centuries, when the heirs of the Roman empire--Rome and Byzantium--had receded from the height of their power, when the Abbasid caliphate was also waning and when the Chinese empire was languishing between the Tang and Sung dynasties. In the absence of strong secular polities, it was religious institutions--the Papacy, the monastic orders, the Muslim ulema--that often set the political agenda. That helps explain why the period culminated with the holy war known as the Crusades. Yet this clash of civilizations was in many ways just one more example of the apolar world's susceptibility to long-distance military raids directed at urban centers by more backward peoples. The Vikings were perhaps the principal beneficiaries of an anarchic age. Small wonder that the future seemed to lie in creating small defensible entities like the Venetian republic or the Anglo-Saxon kingdom of England. Could an apolar world today produce an era reminiscent of that troubled time? Certainly, one can imagine the world's established powers retreating into their own regional spheres of influence. But what of the growing pretensions to autonomy of the supranational bodies created under U.S. leadership after World War II? The U.N., the IMF, the World Bank and the WTO each regards itself as in some way representing the "international community." Surely their aspirations to global governance are fundamentally different from the spirit of the Dark Ages? Yet universal claims were an integral part of the rhetoric of that era. All the empires claimed to rule the world; some, unaware of the existence of other civilizations, maybe even believed that they did. The reality, however, was political fragmentation. And that remains true today. The defining characteristic of our age is not a shift of power upward to supranational institutions, but downward. If free flows of information and factors of production have empowered multinational corporations and NGOs (to say nothing of evangelistic cults of all denominations), the free flow of destructive technology has empowered criminal organizations and terrorist cells, the Viking raiders of our time. These can operate wherever they choose, from Hamburg to Gaza. By contrast, the writ of the international community is not global. It is, in fact, increasingly confined to a few strategic cities such as Kabul and Sarajevo. Waning empires. Religious revivals. Incipient anarchy. A coming retreat into fortified cities. These are the Dark Age experiences that a world without a hyperpower might find itself reliving. The trouble is, of course, that this Dark Age would be an altogether more dangerous one than the one of the ninth century. For the world is roughly 25 times more populous, so that friction between the world's "tribes" is bound to be greater. Technology has transformed production; now societies depend not merely on freshwater and the harvest but also on supplies of mineral oil that are known to be finite. Technology has changed destruction, too: Now it is possible not just to sack a city, but to obliterate it. 1For more than two decades, globalization has been raising living standards, except where countries have shut themselves off from the process through tyranny or civil war. Deglobalization--which is what a new Dark Age would amount to--would lead to economic depression. As the U.S. sought to protect itself after a second 9/11 devastated Houston, say, it would inevitably become a less open society. And as Europe's Muslim enclaves grow, infiltration of the EU by Islamist extremists could become irreversible, increasing trans-Atlantic tensions over the Middle East to breaking point. Meanwhile, an economic crisis in China could plunge the Communist system into crisis, unleashing the centrifugal forces that have undermined previous Chinese empires. Western investors would lose out, and conclude that lower returns at home are preferable to the risks of default abroad. The worst effects of the Dark Age would be felt on the margins of the waning great powers. With ease, the terrorists could disrupt the freedom of the seas, targeting oil tankers and cruise liners while we concentrate our efforts on making airports secure. Meanwhile, limited nuclear wars could devastate numerous regions, beginning in Korea and Kashmir; perhaps ending catastrophically in the Middle East. The prospect of an apolar world should frighten us a great deal more than it frightened the heirs of Charlemagne. If the U.S. is to retreat from the role of global hegemon--its fragile self-belief dented by minor reversals--its critics must not pretend that they are ushering in a new era of multipolar harmony. The alternative to unpolarity may not be multipolarity at all. It may be a global vacuum of power. Be careful what you wish for.

War on terrorism discourse is crucial to US hegemony—it allows us to justify unliateral action and creates a bandwagoning effect making heg sustainible
Marcopoulos 9 (Alexander J. Marcopoulos “Terrorizing Rhetoric: The Advancement of U.S. Hegemony Through the Lack of a Definition of ‘Terror’”
On the morning of September 11, 2001, three airliners were steered by terrorist hijackers into strategic targets, sending shockwaves of fear throughout the United States and the rest of the world. These attacks have since been described as the most severe to have taken place on American soil since the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941. The implications of the September 11 terrorist attacks on the position of the United States as a hegemon are too many to list. But almost a decade later, at the twilight of the George W. Bush presidency, one of the most pervasive effects of the September 11 attacks on hegemony persists in U.S. national security rhetoric – namely, the almost omnipresent use of the word “terror” in the U.S.’s construction of its foreign policy and the use of that word to define and legitimize foreign policy ends. When discussions arise concerning the status of U.S. hegemony vis-à-vis the rest of the world, the subjects touched upon are usually what academics have termed “hard power hegemony,” (i.e. the ability of a nation to project its military force upon others), and “soft power hegemony,” (i.e. the ability of a nation to persuade others by diplomatic or other means). Rarely does such a discussion touch upon a nation’s rhetoric as a source of power. However, as the usage of the word “terror” and its variants became increasingly universal in, and thus important to, foreign affairs post-September 11, the usage of the word has itself become a source of power. Specifically, the ability of certain nations such as the United States to invoke the word “terror” to justify their actions and persuade organizations and nations of the world to cooperate with them has given rise to a unique form of hegemony that warrants analysis outside of the traditional forms of hard power and soft power. This aim of this Paper is to analyze the implications on U.S. hegemony of the use of the word “terror” and its variants in the construction of U.S. policy. In examining the rhetoric of the U.S. War on Terror, this Paper will argue that U.S. definitions of “terror” have supercharged U.S. hegemony in the short term in a few key ways. First, this Paper will examine the various U.S. definitions of terror and contrast them with international definitions. In doing so, it will demonstrate that both a lack of consensus on a definition and the trend in viewing “terror” as an act of war have afforded the U.S. much flexibility in pursuing an anti-terror policy that is self-serving and that provided the Bush Administration with the flexibility to allow the U.S. to proactively project its power. The argument will then proceed to a discussion of how the rhetoric of terrorism compares to the “red scare” rhetoric used during the Cold War in order to create an existential threat to justify U.S. policies. Finally, the Paper will examine the sustainability of the U.S.’s use of terror rhetoric to bolster its hegemony – namely, whether the invocation of “terror” to justify unilateral policies is a sustainable enterprise in the post-Bush United States. </span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
===1NC CP=== 
The United States federal government should end the war on terrorism. The United States federal government should eliminate its military and police presence Afghanistan and military presence in Iraq, but keep its police presence to meet the humanitarian needs of the Iraqi’s in Ira, including the assistance in creating a government that is seen as legitimate in the eyes of Iraqi’s and safeguarding people at risk in the country. The United States federal government should only withdrawal if these conditions are meant. We’ll clarify.
Walzer 9 (Michael Walzer, professor emeritus of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton University, and Nicolaus Mills, professor of American studies at Sarah Lawrence College, are co-editors of the forthcoming book, Getting Out: Historical Perspectives on Leaving Iraq. “ A Just Withdrawal”
http://www.tnr.com/article/politics/just-withdrawal //Donnie)//
//The headlines of the last few months make it clear that there are going to be no free passes for America when it comes to getting its troops out of Iraq. The recent bombing of a Shiite mosque in Baghdad, like the internal warfare in Sunni-dominated Anbar Provice, shows how many Iraqi security problems persist. But as President Obama continues the withdrawal of American troops from Iraq, he should do more than pay attention to conditions on the ground. He should also keep in mind how badly withdrawals from occupied countries have gone in the past, and take to heart the historical lessons these failed withdrawals teach. Though many experts have attempted military, strategic, and political analyses of how and when the United States should withdraw, there has been little attention paid to moral considerations in answering that question. In the same way that we think of just and unjust wars, we need to think of just and unjust withdrawals. Ethical understanding and historical reflection have too often been the exception rather than the rule when great powers withdraw from the countries they occupied. Nations carefully plan for wars. They mobilize support for them. But typically they rush into withdrawals, which they commonly see as signs of failure. Think, for example, of Great Britain's hasty retreat from India in 1947 and the estimated one million people who died following partition. Occupying powers typically behave as the British did, putting the safety of their own troops and civil servants, and the reputations of their political leaders, before any other considerations. There is good reason to challenge this historical pattern, especially when we think of the stakes in the Middle East today. We need to acknowledge that when one country occupies another, it acquires obligations--and this is true whether the initial occupation was a good idea or a bad one. In either case, social life has been disrupted. Even the displacement of a brutal and repressive regime brings death and destruction in its wake, uproots many people, damages the economy, shuts down schools and hospitals, subjects the local population to foreign rule, if only for a time. When foreigners depart, they must make sure that their departure doesn't produce further disastrous disruptions. In practice, withdrawal can involve all sorts of difficulties. As in Algeria and Gaza, the occupying power may even have to battle its own colon or settler population, which does not want to depart--putting its own soldiers at risk to produce a decent ending to the occupation. But in all cases, an ethical withdrawal requires an occupying power to adopt two fundamental guidelines: First, make a good-faith effort to leave a stable government behind. Occupiers commonly claim that they are acting for the benefit of the country they are occupying. But even if they can't make good on that claim, they must try to leave the country no worse off than it was before they came. They don't have to, and often can't, establish a liberal or social democracy, but they should aim for a government that is legitimate in the eyes of its own people and that is capable of providing basic services--including law and order. And for the sake of that, they should be willing to offer ongoing financial and technical aid after they leave, even if the country they are leaving is not likely to be a reliable ally in the future. Second, do whatever is possible to safeguard the people most at risk in the country now on its own. Years ago, the philosopher John Rawls argued that distributive justice requires paying close attention to the least well-off people in your society. By analogy, justice in withdrawing requires paying close attention to the safety of the most vulnerable people who remain behind. This clearly wasn't the policy of the French in Algeria or of our own country in Vietnam. Careless exits leave many people at risk, who are killed, like the Algerian Harkis, or forced to flee, like the Vietnamese “boat people.” Departing powers must help such people restart their lives in safety, enabling them to re-establish themselves at home or providing neighboring countries with subsidies to shelter them. If people are at risk because they worked for (“collaborated” with) an occupier, as in the case of translators, drivers, guards, informers, and many others in Iraq, it is especially necessary is to offer them and their families asylum. Great Britain's behavior after the American Revolution provides a classic example of an imperial power doing the right thing. Over several months and hundreds of sailings through early December 1783, Britain removed thousands of Loyalists and sympathizers from its former colonies, sending 29,244 evacuees from New York to Nova Scotia alone. The Obama administration cannot undo the mistakes that the Bush administration made or the crimes that it committed in Iraq. But it can do the next best thing. It can mitigate their consequences for the Iraqi people and provide a model for how a modern occupation should end. To be sure, executing a just withdrawal, with appropriate concern for the Iraqis left behind, may require a significant allocation of time and resources, not to mention the lives of many additional U.S. soldiers. America's moral obligation to Iraq need not be only consideration in making these decisions. But its withdrawal from the country should not be as thoughtless as its entry.//

//The counterplan solves all of the case and disads to it—the aff is a form of abandoning Iraq, they notice the problems of US presence yet do nothing to protect the victims in the whole equation—the aff is the husband that beat his wife, and upon realizing the immorality of his actions, skips town. What about payment for the children? It is forgotten, this makes extinction of minority groups inevitable and is a decision rule for the negative//
//Mccarrick 10 (The writer is archbishop emeritus of Washington, D.C., and consultant to the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishop's Committee on Migration and Catholic Relief Services. “ U.S. Troop Withdrawal From Iraq Does Not End Humanitarian Obligation” http://www.politicsdaily.com/2010/07/31/u-s-withdrawal-from-iraq-does-not-end-our-humanitarian-obligati/// Donnie)
But this departure should not be accompanied by a withdrawal of our support for the Iraqi people, particularly for the millions of displaced Iraqis who continue to live in limbo both inside Iraq and in neighboring countries. During a recent mission to observe the situation of the Iraqi displaced, this reality became painfully clear to me. The humanitarian consequences of this seven-year war on Iraqi civilians are too often unreported in accounts about the situation in Iraq. Since 2003, 2.5 million Iraqis have fled the country, mainly to Jordan, Syria and Lebanon, while an additional 2 million have been dislocated from their homes in Iraq. Neighboring countries have by and large kept the door ajar for Iraqis, but not without creating strains on their own populations and resources. The international community, led by the United States, has provided basic assistance to the refugees and resettled a small fraction to third countries, but a long-term solution to this mass displacement has proven elusive. Too many Iraqi families remain fearful of returning home, but are unable to permanently settle in their host country. Nevertheless, indications are that we are reducing, not increasing, our support. Currently, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the agency charged with responding to the refugee crisis, is more than 60 percent short of the funding needed to meet projected needs. The agency also reports that 10,000 refugees designated for resettlement this year have no place to go, as resettlement countries, such as our own, have not agreed to accept a sufficient number. With the American troop withdrawal on the horizon, the situation could grow worse. Violence could increase and Iraqis who stayed at home may be forced to flee, increasing the number of refugees in the region. Internally displaced persons may be unable to return to their homes and their ranks may grow. The United States has yet to announce plans for handling the humanitarian challenges that could follow withdrawal. It is our moral responsibility to do so. Moreover, Iraqi Christians continue to be the targets of systematic violence, especially in Mosul and Nineveh. They and other Iraqi minorities are of special concern. Even now, Christians continue to flee Iraq at levels comparable to the rate near the beginning of the war, a deeply troubling sign. These ancient communities once thrived in Iraq, but now face potential extinction. What should the United States do to address these issues? First, we should not assume that an end to military involvement signals the beginning of a withdrawal of humanitarian support. As a moral matter, we should not claim victory in Iraq when millions of people have lost their homes and have little hope of reclaiming them. More important, the United States, in cooperation with the Iraqi government and the international community, must develop a post-war plan, similar to what we have done after other conflicts, to find durable solutions for Iraqi refugees and displaced people. Such a plan should include steps to strengthen the rule of law and security within Iraq to enable Iraqis, including Christians, to remain or return. It also should include working with neighboring countries to integrate refugees in a host country or resettle them to third countries, if return is not possible. After World War II, the Marshall Plan restored Europe, and after the Vietnam War the Orderly Departure Program brought many Vietnamese to the United States and other countries. These are examples of American resourcefulness and willingness to repair, to the extent possible, the ravages of war. Certainly, a post-withdrawal plan should be tailored to current realities, but it should demonstrate the same commitment as earlier post-war efforts, leaving Iraq and its people as whole as possible. Leaving a large number of Iraqis displaced within Iraq and unsettled throughout the Middle East could create long-term social and political problems, hurting the ability of the United States to achieve other important policy goals. In the end, the abandonment of Iraqi refugees and internally displaced cannot be an option. We cannot leave behind a humanitarian crisis in the hope that it will correct itself. Such an outcome would create more tension in the region and put at risk the next generation of Iraqis, whose leadership will be needed to build a truly stable and peaceful Iraq.


Unjust wars can lead to just peace—we must stay committed with police presence, they focus on the wrong question
Powers 8 (Gerard F. Powers, director of policy studies at the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, is a former director of the Office of International Justice and Peace of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. “ Our Moral Duty in Iraq” http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=10618 //Donnie)
If it was immoral to intervene in Iraq in the first place, is it immoral to stay? Even Hillary Clinton, who supported the intervention, has claimed that Barack Obama is inconsistent because he opposed the intervention but later supported funding for U.S. troops to remain. Clearly, the ethics of intervention and the ethics of exit are related. The widespread, and correct, belief that the original intervention was illegitimate, the lack of broad international support and the failure to tie the toppling of a brutal regime in Iraq to a realistic and clear post-intervention plan have contributed to the debacle there. That said, as Bishop William Skylstad, then president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, emphasized in November, the focus now should be “more on the ethics of exit than on the ethics of intervention,” for the two, while related, are distinct. A just war can lead to an unjust peace; less often, an unjust war can lead to a just peace. Today’s challenge in Iraq is to ensure that an unjust war does not lead to an unjust peace. Many in the antiwar camp fail to acknowledge that the United States bears a moral burden to help Iraqis build a just peace, a burden made heavier precisely because the war is unjust. As an uninvited occupying power, the United States has assumed a whole set of moral obligations to promote the common good of the Iraqi people until Iraqis can take control of their own affairs.Legally, the United States is no longer occupying Iraq, but by almost any measure Iraq is a failed state. Morally, therefore, the United States retains significant residual responsibilities to Iraqis. The Iraq intervention may have been an optional, immoral war; but given the U.S. government’s shared responsibility for the ensuing crisis, its continued engagement is not an optional moral commitment. </span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
====2NC CP==== 
Aff = reintervention
Powers 8 (Gerard F. Powers, director of policy studies at the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, is a former director of the Office of International Justice and Peace of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. “ Our Moral Duty in Iraq” http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=10618 //Donnie)//
//Decoupling the United States from Iraq’s hatreds is a complex matter. A precipitous U.S. withdrawal could end the war for the United States, but only for a while. Many analysts warn that a spiral of violence that could fill a vacuum left by an ill-timed U.S. withdrawal might necessitate a reintervention by the United States on humanitarian and security grounds. If the United States were not already in Iraq, there would be a clamor for humanitarian intervention to end the strife, which the World Health Organization estimates killed 151,000 Iraqis between 2003 and June 2006. One cannot criticize the United States and the international community for not intervening to stop the sectarian strife in Darfur, while insisting that disengagement is the appropriate response to sectarian strife in Iraq (strife which, unlike Darfur, is both a direct and indirect result of U.S. actions).//


//All they care about is what is good is for the US they have no care at all for what happens to the Iraqi’s in the long term—only immediately, you cant invade a country, kill its leader and his sons, change its government , stay for seven years, make all electricity dependent on the US, and then just leave. We have to stay to guarantee a base line for the Iraqi’s and assure that they can live the way they did prior to our intervention—this is the only moral route because it assures that we keep the Iraqi’s safe instead of abandoning them in squalor assuring their death//
//Powers 8 (Gerard F. Powers, director of policy studies at the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, is a former director of the Office of International Justice and Peace of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. “ Our Moral Duty in Iraq” http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=10618// Donnie)
The best antiwar argument must address two moral failures in Iraq, not just one: it was immoral to intervene; in the ensuing nation-building process, the United States has failed the Iraqi people by willing an end (a peaceful and prosperous Iraq) without willing the means to achieve it. A preoccupation with what is good for U.S. troops and U.S. interests, coupled with speculative, short-term assessments of success and necessity, could compound this double moral failure. Those who say that it is too late and too costly to fix what we have broken must not forget what we owe Iraqis, lest they too readily impose on Iraqis alone the risks of a serious humanitarian, security and political crisis if the U.S. withdraws too soon. The antiwar position must find a better balance between an ethics of efficacy and an ethics of responsibility, between meeting U.S. needs and interests and Iraqi needs and interests. Some might still conclude that strict deadlines for withdrawal are called for. I doubt it. But at least then withdrawal would be pursued, not with self-righteous calls to “end” an immoral war, but with a deep sense of anguish, remorse and foreboding over our nation’s failure to live up to its obligations to the Iraqi people. The moral question is: What policies and strategies best serve the interests of the Iraqi people?

Your aff allows for the ethic of invervention and makes it inevitable—we solve much better
Powers 8 (Gerard F. Powers, director of policy studies at the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, is a former director of the Office of International Justice and Peace of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. “ Our Moral Duty in Iraq” http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=10618 //Donnie)//
//The strongest argument against the Iraq intervention was that preventive wars are wars of aggression, which often become wars of occupation. And wars of occupation often degenerate into wars of repression, as the occupier resorts to indiscriminate and disproportionate force, emergency measures (even torture) and other heavy-handed tactics to pacify a resistant population. Wars of occupation, moreover, invariably involve a sustained, extremely difficult, long-term commitment to nation building that is at odds with U.S. political culture. Holding the Bush administration to this high standard of moral responsibility—rather than suggesting that responsibilities to Iraqis can easily be overridden by U.S. interests and by calculations of necessity and efficacy—would help hold the line on preventive war in the future. Given the fears generated by terrorism and the spread of weapons of mass destruction, such preventive wars will remain all too tempting and all too easy for the United States, if it is not required to bear the burden of what it has wrought.//

//They are more like bush than we are—the fantasy that we can leave and things will be okay is the same ethic that is used to justify attack//
//Powers 8 (Gerard F. Powers, director of policy studies at the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, is a former director of the Office of International Justice and Peace of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. “ Our Moral Duty in Iraq” http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=10618// Donnie)
Paradoxically, a failure to take seriously the distinction between the ethics of intervention and the ethics of exit, and to give an ethic of responsibility proper weight in the moral analysis, could undermine the original moral case against the war. The legitimate desire to end U.S. military engagement in a costly war with no end in sight has led many antiwar advocates to embrace a type of moral reasoning that is all too similar to that which they rejected when it was used by the Bush administration to justify the war. The Bush administration discarded traditional just war norms and launched a preventive war on the grounds that it was necessary to protect U.S. interests. Opponents of continued U.S. involvement must be careful not to discard norms governing U.S. responsibilities to the Iraqi people on the grounds that U.S. withdrawal is necessary to protect U.S. interests. The Bush administration’s case was based on best-case scenarios: a preventive war would prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction to terrorists, and Iraq would quickly become a model democracy in the Middle East. Opponents countered that war in the world’s most volatile region would unleash the kind of uncontrollable, unintended consequences that have, in fact, ensued. If such realistic assessments of the risks of negative consequences were a reason for opposing the original intervention, they should also be a reason for opposing too rapid a withdrawal. Hopes that things could not get worse in Iraq might be tragically misplaced and deadlines might backfire. Reliance on best-case scenarios got us into our current predicament; it is not a strategy for getting us out of it.</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
==New COIN Neg== 
===New CP=== 
The United States federal government should organize an international conference in which regional powers and neighbors of Afghanistan, including but not limited to Russia, China, India, Iran, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Pakistan, are invited. The objective of the conference should be to establish a withdrawal deadline for the United States federal government’s military presence, the United States federal government should advocate that it keep its military presence in Afghanistan for no more than five years. Another goal should be to establish a guarantee that all countries involved will not indulge themselves in interfering in Afghan affairs, and establish relevant spheres of influence and aid programs, and allow the Afghani government to choose how its government will function.
We’ll clarify.
The affirmative is a unilateral withdrawal which is distinct from the CP—it is key to stability in the long term, the aff causes great power wars over competition in Afghanistan.
Noor 10 (Ahmad Noor ‘Baheige’ holds Ph. D degree in International Relations from the University of Peshawar, Pakistan. “The Afghanistan Dilemma: The way out” http://www.worldsecuritynetwork.com/showArticle3.cfm?article_id=18490 //Donnie)
After the events of September 9/11 2001, US and allied forces’ intervention in Afghanistan was welcomed by the Afghans. They expected that after years of turmoil (such as foreign occupation, civil and proxy wars, insurgencies and instabilities), an era of peace, stability, reconstruction, progress and democracy would usher in Afghanistan, but the hopes and wishes soon shattered when the Afghans found themselves again in a state of war. With every passing day, month and year, the sufferings of Afghans are on the way to increase and the hope for peace and progress are dashing down. Ironically, the US policy also failed to win the hearts and minds of Afghans. It ended up in more death and destruction than bringing peace and stability in Afghanistan. The death toll of allied forces is increasing day by day and more than 2000 soldiers have been killed so far. What did they die for? Did they lay their lives to bring peace, stability and democracy in Afghanistan? No, they were sacrificed for a failed mission that has no specific goals and means. Besides foreigners, many Afghan men, women and children have lost their lives, Despite the presence of hundreds and thousands of foreign troops in Afghanistan, the end result is failure; the failure of international community, Afghan government and that of democracy to deliver. To save the sinking ship, the international community, Afghan government and the opposition forces must sit together and prepare a grand rescue plan for the way forward. Following steps might be useful to save Afghanistan from further catastrophes: The US and allied forces under, the mandate of UN, should organise an international conference in which the regional powers and neighbours of Afghanistan be given a part to play. The aims and objectives of the conference should be based on the strategy regarding how to cope with the present situation when some NATO members have given a signal to withdraw from Afghanistan. The talk should be based on exit strategy with emphasis on a time frame for the withdrawal of NATO forces. Moreover, empowerment of Afghan government and forces be given a special consideration. The time frame for withdrawal of foreign troops should not be more than three to four years. In the meantime, Afghan army and police should be organised and trained by a friendly state acceptable to all Afghans. In this UN backed International conference, regional and international powers should also guarantee that they will not indulge themselves in interfering in Afghan affairs. It must be ensured that Afghanistan will no longer be used as a proxy state against others and that no support will be extended by any state to any of the Afghan groups. Anti government groups and leaders who have been blacklisted by the UN should be cleared. In addition, Taliban and other opposition groups in Afghanistan should be allowed to establish their offices manned by their representatives. With the help of Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, Afghan government should be encouraged to start negotiation with all opposition forces. These negotiations should not be intercepted or influenced by others. Afghans should be allowed to decide their fate and whatever decisions they take; it should be accepted by all wholeheartedly. During the process of withdrawal, if Afghan army and police are not well prepared to take their responsibilities, then the duty of maintaining law and order should be assigned to one or more of the Islamic countries acceptable and trusted by all Afghans. Afghan society is distinctly divided between the poor and the rich: the rich are getting richer and poor are getting poorer day by day. The rich people constitute the ruling class while poor people are the most affected one. Middle class doesn’t exist. Afghanistan is in need of a middle class which may prove to be a much needed balancer in the society. Afghan refugees living abroad especially in Pakistan and Iran have the potential to become a strong middle class. These refugees are well educated and economically they are sound too. Thus, their skill and education can be utilised to bring positive changes in Afghanistan. Besides, the refugees living abroad have the experience of democracy which will have a daunting effect if they return to Afghanistan. This gigantic task should be taken up by the international community and Afghan government jointly with the help of neighbouring countries to bring the refugees back home. These are the steps that can save Afghanistan and provide it with a safe and bright future. If the international community, regional states, Afghan government and opposition forces fail to recognise the seriousness of the situation and fail to reach an agreement, the suffering of Afghans will continue. The situation like this is neither in the interest of the region nor in the interest of the world, only a peaceful, stable and democratic Afghanistan can guarantee to end the growing trends of terrorism and extremism. If the International community fails to take appropriate steps or takes hasty and hurried decision as happened in late 1980s when the whole focus of attention was on the provision of a safe passage for the withdrawal of the former Soviet troops, then there are chances that Afghanistan may fall again into civil war which will cause more devastation to the region and the world than happened in the past. Great powers always learn from their past experiences. America as a sole super power of the world should take the past events into consideration while designing polices for Afghanistan and should not repeat steps like BONN Conference in which such elements were brought to the forefront that were rejected by the people of Afghanistan. The world remembers that in 1994, the Afghans had extended support to Taliban with the hope that the former will bring stability to the state and put the nation on the way to peace and progress. The power should be transferred in a transparent democratic manner so that people could have a chance to choose their representatives without fears of warlords and government interference. The Jirgas and conferences are not answer to Afghan problems. The Afghans need a grand, durable strategy which is acceptable to all and which can serve Afghanistan’s interests. The Afghans are optimistic. They can rise and cope with their difficulties as they have done throughout their history. Afghans have a strong will power and they can successfully come out of the current crises. The only thing they need is the moral and material support from international community in general and the neighbouring countries in particular.</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
====2nc Stuff==== 
Here is more evidence—we turn the heg advantage and YOU cause regional war, remember we can go for the net benefit idependant of the cp
Kissinger 10 (Henrysecretary of state from 1973 to 1977.America needs an Afghan strategy, not an alibi http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/06/23/AR2010062302193.html //Donnie)//
//America needs a strategy, not an alibi. We have a basic national interest to prevent jihadist Islam from gaining additional momentum, which it will surely do if it can claim to have defeated the United States and its allies after overcoming the Soviet Union. A precipitate withdrawal would weaken governments in many countries with significant Islamic minorities. It would be seen in India as an abdication of America’s role in stabilizing the Middle East and South Asia and spur radical drift in Pakistan. It would, almost everywhere, raise questions about America’s ability to define or execute its proclaimed goals. A militant Iran building its nuclear capacity will assess its new opportunities as America withdraws from both Iraq and Afghanistan and is unable to break the diplomatic stalemate over Iran’s nuclear program. But an obtrusive presence will, in time, isolate us inside Afghanistan as well as internationally. Afghan strategy needs to be modified in four ways: The military effort should be conducted substantially on a provincial basis rather than in pursuit of a Western-style central government. The time scale for a political effort exceeds by a wide margin that available for military operations. We need a regional diplomatic framework for the next stage of Afghan strategy, whatever the military outcome. Artificial deadlines should be abandoned. A regional diplomacy is desirable because our interests coincide substantially with those of many of the regional powers. All of them, from a strategic perspective, are more threatened than is the United States by an Afghanistan hospitable to terrorism. China in Sinkiang, Russia in its southern regions, India with respect to its Muslim minority of 160 million, Pakistan as to its political structure, and the smaller states in the region would face a major threat from an Afghanistan encouraging, or even tolerating, centers of terrorism. Regional diplomacy becomes all the more necessary to forestall a neocolonial struggle if reports about the prevalence of natural resources in Afghanistan prove accurate. Afghanistan becomes an international issue whenever an outside power seeks to achieve unilateral dominance. Inevitably, this draws in other parties to establish a countervailing influence, driving events beyond rational calculation. A regional diplomacy should seek to establish a framework to insulate Afghanistan from the storms raging around it rather than allow the country to serve as their epicenter. It would also try to build Afghanistan into a regional development plan, perhaps encouraged by the Afghan economy's reported growth rate of 15 percent last year. Military operations could be sustained and legitimized by such diplomacy. In evaluating our options, we must remember that every course will be difficult and that whatever strategy we pursue should be a nonpartisan undertaking. Above all, we need to do justice to all those who have sacrificed in the region, particularly the long-suffering Afghan people//

//This is legit a prerequisite to yo aff—unilateralism gurantees miscalc from neighbors and makes any US presence ineffective//
//Rubin 8 (Barnett R. Rubin Dr. Barnett R. Rubin is Senior Fellow at the Center on International Cooperation of New York University. He directed the Afghanistan Regional Project from its inception in 2001 until 2009, when he became a consultant to the Department of State. Rubin was Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for the Study of Central Asia at Columbia University from 1990 to 1996. Previously, he was a Jennings Randolph Peace Fellow at the United States Institute of Peace and Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale University.Currently, Dr. Rubin is a consultant to the Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan in the U.S. Department of State “Afghan Dilemmas: Defining Commitments” http://www.the-american-interest.com/article-bd.cfm?piece=423// Donnie)
Lynch proposes that the United States solve the Afghan security puzzle by combining two approaches. The first approach is to compensate for Afghanistan’s inability to finance and sustain adequate security forces by unilaterally guaranteeing Afghanistan’s security through a treaty, and continuing to fund Afghan security forces at whatever level the threat environment requires, whether Afghanistan can afford them or not. The second approach is to reduce the threat level by a commitment so strong that all will conclude resistance is futile, and then to cure Pakistan’s “paranoia” through talk therapy (diplomacy) and medication (train and equip the military). As I have suggested, unilateral policies based on an Afghan government dependent on the United States and the chimera of unchallengeable U.S. military hegemony will not work. But what will?
To answer that question we must decide not only what our goals are, but also what it will take to achieve them. We can never stabilize Afghanistan and then make a victorious exit without coming to some understanding with Afghanistan’s neighbors. So the first thing we must do is show that we understand regional realities by engaging the neighbors on their genuine interests; otherwise they will continue to wage asymmetrical warfare against us until we get the message.
We should therefore launch regional consultations to develop a common understanding of the future of Afghanistan in the region with all neighbors, including Iran, Russia, China, India and the Persian Gulf countries. Both the UN and regional organizations offer forums to pursue these objectives. Afghanistan can no longer be an isolated buffer state, but it can serve as a connector of a wider region through trade, transit, energy transmission and labor migration as long as it is not a source of threats. Integrating Afghanistan as a focal point for regional cooperation, however, is not compatible with making it a base for U.S. power projection in the region. The long-term U.S. presence in Europe is enabled by the substantial overlap in membership between the security alliance (NATO) and the framework for economic and political cooperation (the European Union). Without a similar overlapping of security and economic frameworks in South Asia, a U.S. presence will be destabilizing, not stabilizing.
A Pakistani soldier in a foxhole in the North West Frontier Province. [credit: Warrick Page/Corbis]
Second, we must crack the Pakistani nut. The absence of U.S.-Iranian cooperation in Afghanistan (which was essential to our initial military success in 2001) and growing tensions with Russia and China in Central Asia give Pakistan monopoly control of U.S. access to landlocked Afghanistan. It follows that as long as the Pakistani military is calling the shots, Afghanistan will remain roiled no matter how many battles NATO forces win. To change this dynamic, the United States must relinquish, not strengthen, the privileged relationship between the United States and the Pakistani military. It must instead support civilian control over the government and the military alike, even by parties that oppose U.S. objectives openly (rather than covertly, like the military).
Third, the United States must also invest far more in Afghanistan’s economy and civilian institutions, especially those that are important for rule of law. This requires a far more effective set of policies than we have had so far. It also requires a reversal of much of the Bush Administration’s counter-narcotics policy. Strengthening the legitimacy of the Afghan government works best when pursued through a multilateral framework, not because multilateralism is always superior to unilateralism, but because regional realities in South Asia render unilateral efforts futile. The Afghan government formed at the UN Talks on Afghanistan in Bonn (where I was a member of the UN delegation) enjoyed far greater legitimacy than either the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq or its elected successors.
Fourth, as a component of strengthening civilian institutions, we should fully support efforts by the Afghan government to negotiate and reconcile with insurgents, making it clear that we are concerned about threats to international security, not weakening Islamic political forces for its own sake. Most of those fighting the Karzai government are not “bedrock partners” of al-Qaeda, though the resources provided by and through al-Qaeda and its partners make the insurgency far more deadly. They can be weaned away from al-Qaeda, but this must happen Afghan-style, and only Afghans can make the deals necessary to do that. We need to let them.
Fifth, external support for Afghan security forces and for civilian parts of the budget must be institutionalized. It would be preferable to make such support more multilateral and to devise a scenario for eventual self-sufficiency. Such a scenario would combine threat reduction, economic development and state building. At the very least, funding for Afghan security forces should be de-linked from Iraq and integrated into the regular U.S. defense budget: No country can build institutions on the basis of a foreign country’s supplemental appropriations. A smaller but reliable commitment is better than a huge unpredictable one. Together with consultations on Afghanistan’s role in the region’s security, the United States should structure Afghan forces to act independently rather than as auxiliaries of the United States and NATO, so that they do not appear to threaten the region on behalf of external powers.

</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
===1NC Heg Card=== 
Heg is inevitable despite Afghanistan
Kaplan squared 11 (Robert Kaplan is a Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security in Washington. In 2009, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates appointed Kaplan to the Defense Policy Board. “America Primed” http://nationalinterest.org/article/america-primed-4892 //Donnie)
THE PAST century has seen a multi-polar world through the end of World War II, a bipolar world through the end of the Cold War and a dissipating unipolar world since. Economic multipolarity is already a reality. And, in military terms, America’s unipolar dominance over the air and sea-lanes will not last forever, given the rise of naval powers across Asia. Moreover, the advantages that accrue to terrorists and insurgents, for whom war is a way of life and who kill indiscriminately, have put tremendous strain on the U.S. security establishment. America’s prospects for global primacy appear bleak. But in spite of the seemingly inevitable and rapid diminution of U.S. eminence, to write America’s great-power obituary is beyond premature. The United States remains a highly capable power. Iraq and Afghanistan, as horrendous as they have proved to be—in a broad historical sense—are still relatively minor events that America can easily overcome. The eventual demise of empires like those of Ming China and late-medieval Venice was brought about by far more pivotal blunders. Think of the Indian Mutiny against the British in 1857 and 1858. Iraq in particular—ever so frequently touted as our turning point on the road to destruction—looks to some extent eerily similar. At the time, orientalists and other pragmatists in the British power structure (who wanted to leave traditional India as it was) lost some sway to evangelical and utilitarian reformers (who wanted to modernize and Christianize India—to make it more like England). But the attempt to bring the fruits of Western civilization to the Asian subcontinent was met with a violent revolt against imperial authority. Delhi, Lucknow and other Indian cities were besieged and captured before being retaken by colonial forces. Yet, the debacle did not signal the end of the British Empire at all, which continued on and even expanded for another century. Instead, it signaled the transition from more of an ad hoc imperium fired by a proselytizing lust to impose its values on others to a calmer and more pragmatic empire built on international trade and technology.1 There is no reason to believe that the fate of America need follow a more doomed course. Yes, the mistakes made in Iraq and Afghanistan have been the United States’ own, but, though destructive, they are not fatal. If we withdraw sooner rather than later, the cost to American power can be stemmed. Leaving a stable Afghanistan behind of course requires a helpful Pakistan, but with more pressure Washington might increase Islamabad’s cooperation in relatively short order. In terms of acute threats, Iran is the only state that has exported terrorism and insurgency toward a strategic purpose, yet the country is economically fragile and politically unstable, with behind-the-scenes infighting that would make Washington partisans blanch. Even assuming Iran acquires a few nuclear devices—of uncertain quality with uncertain delivery systems—the long-term outlook for the clerical regime is itself unclear. The administration must only avoid a war with the Islamic Republic. To be sure, America may be in decline in relative terms compared to some other powers, as well as to many countries of the former third world, but in absolute terms, particularly military ones, the United States can easily be the first among equals for decades hence. China, India and Russia are the only major Eurasian states prepared to wield military power of consequence on their peripheries. And each, in turn, faces its own obstacles on the road to some degree of dominance. The Chinese will have a great navy (assuming their economy does not implode) and that will enforce a certain level of bipolarity in the world system. But Beijing will lack the alliance network Washington has, even as China and Russia will always be—because of geography—inherently distrustful of one another. China has much influence, but no credible military allies beyond possibly North Korea, and its authoritarian regime lives in fear of internal disruption if its economic growth rate falters. Furthermore, Chinese naval planners look out from their coastline and see South Korea and a string of islands—Japan, Taiwan and Australia—that are American allies, as are, to a lesser degree, the Philippines, Vietnam and Thailand. To balance a rising China, Washington must only preserve its naval and air assets at their current levels. India, which has its own internal insurgency, is bedeviled by semifailed states on its borders that critically sap energy and attention from its security establishment, and especially from its land forces; in any case, India has become a de facto ally of the United States whose very rise, in and of itself, helps to balance China. Russia will be occupied for years regaining influence in its post-Soviet near abroad, particularly in Ukraine, whose feisty independence constitutes a fundamental challenge to the very idea of the Russian state. China checks Russia in Central Asia, as do Turkey, Iran and the West in the Caucasus. This is to say nothing of Russia’s diminishing population and overwhelming reliance on energy exports. Given the problems of these other states, America remains fortunate indeed.


</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
===1NC Pakistan=== 
No link to aff
Stewart 9 (Rory, is a British academic, author, and Conservative politician. Since May 2010, he has been the Member of Parliament for Penrith and the Border,[1] in the county of Cumbria, North West England.Stewart was a senior coalition official in a province of occupied Iraq in 2003-2004 “Afghanistan: What Could Work” http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=2 //Donnie)
There are, in reality, no inescapable connections between Afghanistan and Pakistan, al-Qaeda and the Taliban. There are positive and negative effects of our Afghan operations on Pakistan, (positive, through increasing pressure on the Taliban; negative, through inflaming Islamist anti-US sentiment in Pakistan and driving “bad guys” over the border into Afghanistan). But the future of Pakistan will be determined predominantly by factors internal to Pakistan, such as the military, the feudal system, and the relationship between the institutions of Islam and the Pakistani state. Similarly, although al-Qaeda and the Taliban cooperate and share funding, they are still largely divided between a non-Afghan group focused on international terrorism and Afghan–Pakistani groups whose primary aim is to drive foreign troops from Afghanistan and spread Islamist rule in Pakistan. You could at least in theory defeat the Taliban without eliminating al-Qaeda, and the Taliban could return to power in Afghanistan without bringing back al-Qaeda.

Army checks
Bandow 09- Senior Fellow @ Cato, former special assistant to Reagan (11/31/09, Doug, “Recognizing the Limits of American Power in Afghanistan,” Huffington Post, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10924)
From Pakistan's perspective, limiting the war on almost any terms would be better than prosecuting it for years, even to "victory," whatever that would mean. In fact, the least likely outcome is a takeover by widely unpopular Pakistani militants. The Pakistan military is the nation's strongest institution; while the army might not be able to rule alone, it can prevent any other force from ruling. Indeed, Bennett Ramberg made the important point: "Pakistan, Iran and the former Soviet republics to the north have demonstrated a brutal capacity to suppress political violence to ensure survival. This suggests that even were Afghanistan to become a terrorist haven, the neighborhood can adapt and resist." The results might not be pretty, but the region would not descend into chaos. In contrast, warned Bacevich: "To risk the stability of that nuclear-armed state in the vain hope of salvaging Afghanistan would be a terrible mistake."

Indo/Pak war will not go nuclear—no one wants to strike first and fear of US involvement
Enders ’02 “Experts say nuclear war still unlikely,”, David Enders, Daily News Editor, January 30th 2002, DA: 7/26/10, http://www.michigandaily.com/content/experts-say-nuclear-war-still-unlikely?page=0,0
University political science Prof. Ashutosh Varshney becomes animated when asked about the likelihood of nuclear war between India and Pakistan. "Odds are close to zero," Varshney said forcefully, standing up to pace a little bit in his office. "The assumption that India and Pakistan cannot manage their nuclear arsenals as well as the U.S.S.R. and U.S. or Russia and China concedes less to the intellect of leaders in both India and Pakistan than would be warranted.” The world"s two youngest nuclear powers first tested weapons in 1998, sparking fear of subcontinental nuclear war a fear Varshney finds ridiculous. "The decision makers are aware of what nuclear weapons are, even if the masses are not," he said. "Watching the evening news, CNN, I think they have vastly overstated the threat of nuclear war," political science Prof. Paul Huth said. Varshney added that there are numerous factors working against the possibility of nuclear war. "India is committed to a no-first-strike policy," Varshney said. "It is virtually impossible for Pakistan to go for a first strike, because the retaliation would be gravely dangerous." Political science Prof. Kenneth Lieberthal, a former special assistant to President Clinton at the National Security Council, agreed. "Usually a country that is in the position that Pakistan is in would not shift to a level that would ensure their total destruction," Lieberthal said, making note of India"s considerably larger nuclear arsenal. "American intervention is another reason not to expect nuclear war," Varshney said. "If anything has happened since September 11, it is that the command control system has strengthened. The trigger is in very safe hands." </span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
====2NC Paksitan==== 
And more evidence, empirics prove, the US would have to strait up attack Pakistan for their arguments to be true
Lieven 10 (Anatol Lieven, a senior editor at The National Interest, is a professor in the War Studies Department of King's College London and a senior fellow of the New America Foundation in Washington, DC. He is author of America Right or Wrong: An Anatomy of American Nationalism (Oxford University Press, 2004). His next book, Pakistan: A Hard Country, is to be published in 2011.“All Kayani's Men” http://nationalinterest.org/article/all-kayanis-men-3445 //Donnie)
AS THE military has become more egalitarian, the less-secular have filled its ranks. This social change in the officer corps over the decades has caused many in the West to fear that the army is becoming "Islamized," leading to the danger that the institution as a whole might support Islamist revolution, particularly as the civilian government falters. More dangerously, there might be a mutiny by Islamist junior officers against the high command. These dangers do exist, but in my view, the absolutely key point is that only a direct attack on Pakistan by the United States could bring them to fruition. Westerners must realize that commitment to the army, and to martial unity and discipline, is drilled into every officer and soldier from the first hour of their joining the military. Together with the material rewards of loyal service, it constitutes a very powerful obstacle to any thought of a coup from below, which would by definition split the army and very likely destroy it altogether. Every military coup in Pakistan has therefore been carried out by the chief of army staff, backed by a consensus of the corps commanders and the rest of the high command. Islamist conspiracies by junior officers against their superiors (of which there have been two over the past generation) have been penetrated and smashed by Military Intelligence. It is obviously true that as the officer corps becomes lower-middle class, so its members become less Westernized and more religious-after all, the vast majority of Pakistan's population is conservative Muslim. However, it is made up of many different kinds of orthodox Muslim, and this is also true of the officer corps. </span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
==TNW Neg== 
===1NC DA=== 
1NC DA
Turkey is on the brink of proliferation—the plan tips them over the edge turns case
Weitz 10 (Richard Weitz, Ph.D., is Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis, the Hudson Institute. “THE FUTURE OF NATO'S NUCLEAR WEAPONS ON TURKISH SOIL” http://www.silkroadstudies.org/new/inside/turkey/2010/100412A.html //Donnie)
IMPLICATIONS: Attempting to withdraw the nuclear weapons from Turkey could present serious problems. Many Turkish policy makers already doubt the credibility of U.S. and NATO security commitments due to several earlier incidents following the end of the Cold War. Before both wars against Iraq, some European members of NATO proved reluctant to meet Turkish requests to deploy air and missile defenses to protect Turkey from Iraqi missile strikes. Although the United States did offer some protection, the Turkish government and public were unenthusiastic about their forced involvement in the wars, which was inevitable due to the proximity of the battlefields to Turkish territory. The unpopularity only increased after Washington’s support for the Iraqi Kurds, which raised concerns in Turkey that similar aspirations among Turkey’s Kurdish minority might be encouraged. Turks have also been disappointed by fellow NATO member’s reluctance to support its military operations against the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Iran is another issue that could affect the future nuclear weapons policies of Turkey. Thus far, neither the Turkish nor the Iranian government has publicly linked Iran’s nuclear policies and “Turkey’s” nuclear weapons. In principle, the connection could run in various directions. On the one hand, Turkey’s ruling Justice and development party (AKP) deny that Iran is seeking nuclear weapons, in which case either the status quo or the elimination of Turkey’s TNWs might be acceptable. On the other hand, those members of Turkey’s national security establishment concerned about Tehran’s nuclear ambitions might either seek to retain the nuclear weapons on Turkish soil as a security hedge or demonstratively eliminate them to encourage Tehran to behave similarly. The United States and other countries might also need to consider how removing the weapons might affect Turkey’s calculations about whether it might develop its own nuclear deterrent, which would contribute to the feared proliferation wave in the greater Middle East that could undermine the non-proliferation agenda of the Obama administration and other NATO governments. Some Turkish officials see having physical access to TNWs as part of their bargain with the United States and the other allies for not developing an independent Turkish nuclear arsenal.


That causes Graeco-Turkish war
Athanasopulos 1 (Haralambos, PhD – International Law, “Greece, Turkey And the Aegean Sea: A Case Study in International Law”, p. 110-111, Google Print)
At this point, it must be underlined that the late Greek socialist Prime Minister, Andreas Papandreou, who was in power during the launch of the Turkish rearmament program, committed a fallacy of dangerous national proportions by failing to ensure the continued existence of a military power balance between Greece and Turkey, which would function as a credible deterrent to any Turkish threats and reactions against Greece. Turkey’s military superiority over Greece has to some extent played a role in the escalation of Turkey’s tough stand toward Greece in the Aegean. Most importantly, the Turkish military superiority has created a feeling of vulnerability for Greece. Of course, in view of the aftermath of the 1996 Turkish military action against the Imia islet in the Aegean and its profound impact on the Greek people, Greek Prime Minister Costas Simitis announced a five-year armaments program in the amount of approximately 17 billion dollars. This Greek armament program will constitute a significant factor in strengthening and expanding Greece’s military power and capabilities. Nevertheless, Turkey also has been proceeding with a further major modernization program of its armed forces and the acquisition of advanced and sophisticated weapon systems. It is reported that Turkey will be spending about ten billion dollars per year for the next 25 years in modernizing its armed forces and expanding its military power. This means that Turkey will continue to be a formidable challenge to Greece’s sovereignty and national security. Additionally, it cannot be excluded that Turkey in the not so distant future may be able to acquire mass destruction weapon capabilities, which will include not only chemical and biological weapons but also nuclear weapons. Turkey already has a nuclear program, which can be used for military applications in the nuclear weapons field. Greece, in anticipation of the acquisition of mass destruction weapons by Turkey in the future, will be compelled to respond in kind to Turkey. At long last, Greece must begin a strategic program which will provide the country with advanced military capabilities to strengthen its military defenses, and thus ensure its military balance and equilibrium with Turkey. Only a military balance between the two countries can be a credible deterrent to the potential of a Greek-Turkish military conflict. A military balance and equilibrium between the two countries will serve as a significant factor in enhancing mutual security and stability in the Aegean.

That collapses NATO
Athanasopulos 1 (Haralambos, PhD – International Law, “Greece, Turkey And the Aegean Sea: A Case Study in International Law”, p. 110-111, Google Print)
Greece and Turkey have long been involved in a course of constant confrontation due to their deeply rooted disputes in the Aegean Sea and in Cyprus. If these two neighboring countries and NATO allies fail to peacefully manage or resolve these disputes, the potential for Greek-Turkish war will continue to exist. Because of their bilateral disputes and their national and antagonistic policies towards one another, the two countries already have come near to war in the recent past. Although the eruption of actual war has been fortunately so far averted, there should be no doubt that the constant rivalry, antagonism and confrontation have lead to the creation of a hostile environment which could lead both nations to a military conflict, and which has been detrimental to their genuine national interests. Currently, there appears to be some warming in bilateral relations as a result of so-called earthquake diplomacy, presenting Greece and Turkey with a unique opportunity to exert in good faith their utmost endeavor to reduce tensions and resolve disputes. The international community should play a dynamic and positive role in this peaceful resolution. The United Nations, the United States, NATO, and the European Union should provide their good offices and influence over both countries in the effort to facilitate the normalization of Greek-Turkish bilateral relations and ensure the promotion of peace between these two countries. In particular, the United States, with its enormous influence as the sole post-Cold War superpower, must make peace between Greece and Turkey a high priority on its international agenda. The continued Greek-Turkish tensions negatively affect the allied role of Greece and Turkey in NATO. The potential of a Greek-Turkish military clash jeopardizes the cohesion of the strategically important southeastern NATO flank: the eruption of war will undoubtedly destroy it.

Great power wars
John O'Sullivan, editor of the National Review and founder of the New Atlantic, 6-1998 [American Spectator]
Some of those ideas--notably, dissolution and "standing pat"--were never likely to be implemented. Quite apart from the sociological law that says organizations never go out of business even if their main aim has been achieved (the only exception being a slightly ominous one, the Committee for the Free World, which Midge Decter closed down after the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact), NATO's essential aim has not been permanently achieved. True, the Soviet threat is gone; but a nuclear-armed and potentially unstable Russia is still in the game; a major conflict has just been fought in the very Balkans which sparked the First World War; and there are a number of potential wars and civil wars lurking in such regions as the Tyrol, the Basque country, Northern Ireland (not yet finally settled), Corsica, Belgium, Kosovo, and Eastern Europe and the Balkans generally where, it is said, " every England has its Ireland, and every Ireland its Ulster." If none of these seems to threaten the European peace very urgently at present, that is in part because the existence of NATO makes any such threat futile and even counter-productive. No nation or would-be nation wants to take NATO on. And if not NATO, what? There are international bodies which could mediate some of the lesser conflicts: the Organization for Security Cooperation in Europe is explicitly given that responsibility, and the European Union is always itching to show it can play a Big Power role. But neither body has the military heft or the prestige to deter or repress serious strife. The OSCE is a collective security organization, and as Henry Kissinger said of a similar body: "When all participants agree, there is no need for it; when they split, it is useless." And the EU only made itself look ridiculous when it attempted to halt the Bosnian conflict in its relatively early stages when a decisive intervention might have succeeded. As for dealing with a revived Russian threat, there is no military alliance in sight other than NATO that could do the job. In a sense, NATO today is Europe's defense. Except for the American forces, Western armies can no longer play an independent military role. They are wedded to NATO structures and dependent on NATO, especially American, technology. (As a French general admitted in the Gulf War: "The Americans are our eyes and ears.") If NATO were to dissolve--even if it were to be replaced by some European collective defense organization such as a beefed-up Western European Union--it would invite chaos as every irredentist faction sought to profit from the sudden absence of the main guarantor of European stability

</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
====2NC DA==== 
Weitz 10 (Richard Weitz is a senior fellow and director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis at the Hudson Institute. Dr. Weitz has published or edited several books and monographs, including The Russian Military Today and Tomorrow; Global Security Watch-Russia; a volume of National Security Case Studies (Project on National Security Reform; 2008); China-Russia Security Relations; Kazakhstan and the New International Politics of Eurasia; Mismanaging Mayhem: How Washington Responds to Crisis; The Reserve Policies of Nations: A Comparative Analysis; Revitalising US–Russian Security Cooperation: Practical Measures. “NATO’s Nonproliferation Challenges in the Obama Era” http://www.thechicagocouncil.org/userfiles/file/task%20force%20reports/Trans-Atlantic_Papers_4-Weitz.pdf //Donnie)//
//Poland and especially Turkey are often consid¬ered to be the two NATO members most interested in preserving NATO’s nuclear weapons as a hedge against developments in Russia and Iran, respec¬tively.11 Since the Turkish military has not recently exercised with these weapons or given any indica¬tion of seeing them as operational weapons, their purpose above all is to symbolize the alliance’s commitment to Turkey’s defense, underscore the special security relationship between Washington and Ankara, and elevate Turkey’s status within NATO and European security deliberations. TNW also provide the fringe benefit of compensating for Turkey’s continued exclusion from the EU and its own security and defense initiatives.12 Although the Obama administration and other allies will likely avoid actions that might lead Turkey to acquire an independent nuclear deterrent, the Obama admin¬istration’s decision to deploy U.S. missile defenses closer to Turkey—and thereby ensure its protec¬tion from an Iranian nuclear attack—could help assuage some Turkish concerns.//

//Iran’s proliferation is not sufficient to trigger Turkish proliferation—the plan causes turkey prolif by tanking the credibility of NATO guarantees, this turns both of their diplomatic credibility advantages and the prolif advantage.//
//Miller 10 (Franklin Miller is former senior career policy official in the Pentagon and the White House.//
//George Robertson is former NATO secretary-general and former UK defence secretary.//
//Kori Schake is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution in the US. “GERMANY OPENS PANDORA’S BOX” http://www.cer.org.uk/pdf/bn_pandora_final_8feb10.pdf// Donnie)
There could scarcely be a worse time to open the nuclear sharing debate in Turkey. Recent revelations of yet another secret Iranian nuclear enrichment plant and the determination by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) that the plant constitutes another Non-Proliferation Treaty violation have dramatically raised the stakes for Turkey. Ankara has in recent years pursued a rapprochement with Tehran; the government has been positioning itself as the natural interlocutor between the West and Iran. But Turkey also competes with its neighbour for power in the Muslim world. The possession of nuclear weapons would strengthen Iranian influence throughout the region. Also, the acquisition of nuclear weapons by Iran could prompt other Middle Eastern states, such as Egypt and Saudi Arabia, to follow suit. If so, and if NATO’s nuclear guarantee is called into question at the same time, the Turkish government may feel compelled to develop or buy nuclear weapons of its own. If Turkey moved to acquire nuclear weapons it would have to leave the NPT, at a great damage to the country’s reputation and global standing. If it decides to produce them indigenously, Turkey would also need time to build those weapons. This could lead Ankara to try to accommodate rather than confront a nuclear Iran, at least in the interim. German calls for weakening the nuclear pillar of NATO’s mutual defence is thus pushing Turkey into more equivocation on Iran’s nuclear policy at a time when the West is seeking to demonstrate broad international condemnation of Iran’s nuclear activities. We may already be seeing signs of it: Turkey broke with its NATO allies at the recent meeting of the UN nuclear agency, the IAEA, convened to review Iran’s nuclear programmes; it abstained from the vote condemning Iran which even Russia supported. Prime Minister Recep Erdogan has also muted criticism of Iran, repeatedly saying that he does not believe the country’s nuclear programme to be aimed at producing weapons. This is partly due to Turkey’s new policy of balancing between the West and the Middle East. But equally, the more Germany and others cast doubt on the strength of NATO’s nuclear deterrence, the more reasons they give to Ankara to seek accommodation with Iran. This, in turn, further encourages Turkeysceptics in Europe to oppose the country’s accession to the European Union.</span></span>


<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
===1NC CP=== 
CP have the US advocate for NATO-Russia negotiations about TNW reduction – unilateral reduction gives up a vital bargaining chip, means Russia never disarms

Weitz 12/21/10 [Richard, Dr., Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis at the Hudson Institute, http://www.sldinfo.com/?p=13709]

It is understandable why both NATO’s Foreign Ministers and the expert group cited Russia’s TNW as the reason to retain the alliance’s nuclear weapons. The main argument for keeping the weapons for the moment is to induce Russia to reduce its own holdings. The Russian government has eliminated many of the tactical nuclear weapons it inherited from the Cold War and removed other TNWs from operational deployment. Nevertheless, analysts estimate that the Russian military still retains thousands of such weapons, most likely from 2,000 to 4,000, or up to ten times more than the United States likely deploys in Europe. No existing arms control agreement directly applies to them. Despite the urgings of some Republican Senators, the recently concluded START Treaty does not address tactical nuclear weapons. In this context, it is unclear how NATO might best engage in TNW elimination or reduction negotiations with Russia. These could be discussed in bilateral Russia-U.S. talks devoted solely to that issue, though Russia has always resisted that approach and Washington’s NATO allies would not welcome their exclusion, though Washington would presumably solicit NATO and other partner concerns as it did in the INF negotiations during the 1980s. A variant would be to negotiate TNW limitations as part of follow-on negotiations to the New START Treaty, which would cover other issues set aside in the rush to negotiate the recently signed treaty (non-deployed nuclear warheads, strategic defense systems, and the use of conventional warheads on traditionally strategic delivery vehicles such as long-range ballistic missiles). Furthermore, they could also be dealt with as part of the NATO-Russia dialogue regarding a new European security architecture, which Moscow would also see draw up a new European Security Treaty along the lines of the draft text proposed by Russian President Dmitry Medvedev. These could occur within the framework of the NATO-Russia Council (NRC. Finally, they might be considered as part of the discussions aiming to strengthening the NPT against further nuclear proliferation.

Russian cuts are key to deter rouge state conflict which cause nuclear war and prevents NATO-Russia war
Saradzhyan 9 (Simon Saradzhyan is a research fellow at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center “Russia’s Support for Zero: Tactical Move or Long-Term Commitment?” http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/russias-support-for-zero.pdf //Donnie)//
//The Russian leadership should realize that even the utility of nuclear weapons as a deterrent against the existing threats is limited. For instance, hostile nations know that no nuclear arms are likely to be used against them as long as they do not launch massive WMD or conventional attacks on nuclear powers or their key allies. And most rogue regimes know that attacking the U.S., Russia, China, Britain or France would be a very risky endeavor anyhow, given the conventional capabilities of these countries and their allies. It is these conventional capabilities that rogue states factor in when considering most of their policy options, while nuclear weapons’ capability to deter anything short of aggression against the nuclear-weapons states is rather limited. One recent (though imperfect) illustration of this limitation is the five-day war in Georgia in August 2008. Russia’s previous national security concept, which was in force at that time, allowed the Russian military, for instance, to “deter aggressions of any scale against it and its allies, including with the use of nuclear weapons.” Yet such a proclaimed utility did not deter Georgia, which in Russia’s view is a rogue state, from either attacking South Ossetia, which Moscow supports, or from subsequently fighting Russian troops in the separatist province.130 This example is far from perfect since Georgian forces did not attack Russia itself and were far from escalating the war to such a level that it could threaten Russia’s territorial integrity. Moreover, it is perhaps Russia’s nuclear forces that helped keep Georgia’s allies from intervening on Tbilisi’s behalf. Nevertheless, the conflict has once more underscored the limits of nuclear weapons’ capability in deterring a non-nuclear nation in the absence of a robust conventional force capable of rapid reaction.131 Even incremental reduction of these tactical weapons (TNW’s) would allow Russia to divert some of the funds now spent on TNW’s to build such a conventional force. Reduction of TNW’s would also help to ease the military stand-off between Russia and NATO. The presence of U.S. tactical nuclear weapons in Europe and Russia’s own tactical nuclear arsenal “materially solidify” this stand-off as these arsenals are clearly designed for use against each other, according to Arbatov. 132 Likewise, nuclear weapons would not be very effective in deterring or ending those types of conflict that I believe Russia is much more likely to have to deal with than a hypothetical war with NATO. These include an armed conflict with a conventional power, intrusion by insurgents or low-intensity conflict with such insurgents on Russia’s own territory. Some of the perceived wartime benefits of tactical nuclear weapons are not easily gained either. One cannot reasonably hope that use of a tactical nuclear weapon would necessarily localize an armed conflict with NATO or de-escalate one were it ever to take place, which is rather improbable. The use of TNW’s against a nuclear weapons state or alliance is more likely to escalate the conflict. As for the role of nuclear weapons in preventing a conflict among current nuclear weapons states, the probability of such a conflict would not necessarily increase even with nuclear arms gone. The powers and nations now under nuclear umbrellas will not enter a world free of nuclear weapons unless they have developed effective conventional deterrents and put an elaborate system of international arms control and security in place. These measures should help not only to deter former nuclear powers from attacking each other in the absence of nuclear MAD, but also to prevent threats that could be posed by opportunistic rogue nations, as well as by the “unforeseen future events” referred to by proponents of nuclear weapons.//

//Dont remember the exact tage--but its something like Russia will say yes, the plan guts relations with Russia and will get rolled back//
//Millar et al 1 (Alistair Millar is president of the Fourth Freedom Forum and the director of its Center on Global Counterterrorism Cooperation. He also teaches graduate level courses on counterterrorism and U.S. foreign policy at The Johns Hopkins University and The George Washington University, and at the Department of Homeland Security's Center of Excellence on the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism at the University of Maryland. Millar has written numerous chapters, articles, and reports on international counterterrorism efforts, sanctions regimes, and nonproliferation, and has served as consultant to various agencies of the United Nations, the European Union, and to several European governments on sanctions and counterterrorism issues//
//“Uncovered Nukes: Arms Control and the Challenge of Tactical Nuclear Weapons” http://www.fourthfreedom.org/Applications/cms.php?page_id=27// Donnie)
The U.S. should withdraw tactical nuclear weapons from Europe to address longstanding Russian security concerns, particularly as NATO continues to expand eastward, in exchange for a pledge from Moscow that it will share data on the status and location of its TNW arsenal, and download and significantly reduce its forward deployed tactical nuclear weapons in the area between Russia’s western border and the Ural Mountains. It is sometimes argued that a withdrawal of U.S. TNWs from Europe would leave the United States with few bargaining chips. This quarrel does not take into account that other incentives, particularly economic stimulus and debt relief packages, are carrots that can continue to be offered to Russia. Furthermore, important benefits could result from U.S. withdrawal, providing an opportunity for progress. For example, if an accounting process for Russian weapons could be developed—along with other acceptable transparency measures—as a condition for withdrawal of U.S. weapons, a framework could begin for future reductions of Russian TNWS. The gain for both sides would offer a pathway for ending the current stalemate on this issue. Support for Russian reliance on TNWs varies from sector to sector of the Russian nonstrategic weapons infrastructure. It is therefore important in the initial phases of the incentive-based framework to posit attractive inducements that are likely to appeal to wider, collective Russian interests. Specified proposals could then be sought with individual agencies such as MINATOM (the Russian Ministry for Atomic Energy, roughly the equivalent of the U.S. Department of Energy) or the Twelfth Directorate of the Ministry of Defense. One example of this appeal to collective interests could revolve around the notion of a withdrawal of 150 U.S. TNWs in Europe. This would ameliorate Russian concerns about military inferiority, particularly conventional inferiority. The United States has expressed willingness to remove these weapons from Europe in the past. Despite resistance from German, Dutch, and other NATO allies, it is increasingly difficult to justify the need for these weapons on European soil. As previously addressed, the removal of U.S. TNWs in Europe could have a positive effect on Russia’s efforts to deal with its nuclear legacy and nonproliferation initiatives.61 It will not affect NATO deterrence capability. Although the case is still made by some European policy analysts that TNWs remain an integral part of the U.S. nuclear deterrent and NATO’s commitment to Euorpe, economic and political ties have supplanted any reasonable argument for keeping an arsenal of European nuclear weapons as a “vital transatlantic link.” Ivo Daalder notes that “[B]y removing American nuclear weapons from Europe and pledging to include them as part of a Russian-U.S. negotiation regarding tactical nuclear weapons, NATO would enhance the prospect of a possible agreement that would increase effective control over and secure the dismantlement of the large Russian tactical nuclear stockpile.”62 Russian security advisors are concerned that NATO “tactical” nuclear weapons could play a strategic role. </span></span></span>