[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

==<span style="color: black; font-size: 10.5pt; line-height: 15.2pt;">Trifecta AC - Greenhill RR</span>== 
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">V – Morality</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Respect for autonomy is not just a rational requirement, it is the rational requirement.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">J. David Velleman [Professor of Philosophy, NYU], //Self to Self// (2006), 44.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">The value of persons… disregard for persons.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">S – respecting the inviolability of innocent persons</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Negative duties are absolute, even on an international scale.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Thomas Pogge [Director of the Global Justice Program and Leitner Professor of Philosophy and International Affairs at Yale University], “Cosmopolitanism,” //A Companion to Contemporary Political Philosophy// (Second Edition, Vol. 1 – 2007), edited by Goodin, Pettit, and Pogge, 328.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">As can be learned… this agent’s conduct.</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Contention One: Nuclear War</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Subpoint A: Even if nuclear weapons won’t be used, their possession is immoral.</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Possession of nuclear weapons disrespects the inviolability of innocent persons.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">C.A.J. Coady, [Professor of Philosophy, University of Melbourne], “Deterrent Intentions Revisited,” “Ethics” 99:1 (Oct. 1998), 98-108, at 101-102.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">McMahan’s case is… they are immoral.</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Even if there is no harm to people in the status quo, nuclear weapons harm future generations.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">MATTHEW RENDALL [Lecturer in Politics and International Relations, University of Nottingham] “Nuclear Weapons and Intergenerational Exploitation,” Security Studies 16, no. 4 (October–December 2007): 525–554</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Notably, nuclear deterrence… own miserable hides.</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Subpoint B: The possession of nuclear weapons disrespects the inviolability of innocent persons because it increases the already unacceptable risk of catastrophe.</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">A limited nuclear war would result in global cooling.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">The Editors of Scientific American, Summary of Robock and Toon’s “Local Nuclear War, Global Suffering,” Scientific American (January 2010), 74.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Nuclear bombs dropped… models are correct.</span>


<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Risk of nuclear deterrence failure high.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Martin E. Hellman [Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering, Stanford; co-inventor of public key cryptography] “The Odds for Nuclear Armageddon. Fork in the Roads: Choosing the Future for Engineers. ” THE BENT OF TAU BETA PI SPRING 2008, 20-21. JMN</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">While much less… would find accepetable.</span>


<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Contention Two is the Stability-Instability Paradox</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">In a nuclear-armed world, states are struck in the stability-instability paradox, which makes war and escalation inevitable.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Michael Krepon [Founder, Stimson Center – Nonpartisan Global Security Think Tank], “The Stability-Instability Paradox, Misperception, and Escalation Control in South Asia” (May 2003), 18-19</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">The twining of limited… of its capabilities.</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">This trend is empirically verified.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Robert Rauchhaus [Assistant Professor of International Relations and Methodology, UC Berkeley], “Evaluating the Nuclear Peace Hypothesis: A Quantitative Approach” presented at the 2007 annual meeting of the American Political Science Association. p19</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">As the results… the conflict scale.</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">The impact is conventional war.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Zlad Obermeyer (research scientist), Christopher Murray (institute director), Emmanuela Gakidou (associate professor). “Fifty years of violent war deaths from Vietnam to Bosnia: analysis of data from the world health survey programme.” June 19, 2008.</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Affirming would increase stability across the board.</span>
<span style="color: #010101; line-height: 15.2pt;">International Panel on Fissile Materials [independent group of arms-control and nonproliferation experts from both nuclear weapon and non-nuclear weapon states], Appendix A to //Global Fissile Material Report// (2009).</span>
<span style="color: #010101; line-height: 15.2pt;">In 1984, disarmament… weapon-free world</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">By contrast, a nuclear-armed world will face exponential rises in conflict because proliferation begets proliferation.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Kyle Beardsley [Professor of Political Science, Emory] and Victor Asal [Professor of Political Science, SUNY Albany], “Winning with the Bomb,” Journal of Conflict Resolution 52 (Jan. 2009), 297.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">The findings here… powers slowly rises.</span>

==<span style="line-height: 15.2pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10.5pt;">Stock AC</span>**</span>== 

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">V - M</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Ethical Reasoning is directed to satisfy all those who are affected.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Peter Singer “Practical Ethics” pp. 13-14. "The universal aspect... for remaining utilitarians"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">S - Maximizing Human Life</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Contention 1: Accidental Launch</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">First, nuclear states receive false alarms frequently.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Linn I. Sennott [Professor of Mathematics, Illinois State University, Normal, Illinois. Dr. Sennott is a member of the Mathematical Association of America, the Operations Research Society of America, and the Association for Women in Mathematics], “Overlapping False Alarms: Reason for Concern?” “Foundation for Global Community” (2001). "The brief history... a significant possibility".</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">The U.S. and Russia are forced to make a decision whether a nuclear attack is valid and whether to retaliate in a short amount of time.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Robert S. McNamara [Robert Strange McNamara (June 9, 1916 – July 6, 2009)[4] was an American business executive and the eighth Secretary of Defense, serving under Presidents John F. Kennedyand Lyndon B. Johnson from 1961 to 1968. Following that he served as President of theWorld Bank from 1968 until 1981. McNamara was responsible for the institution of systems analysis in public policy, which developed into the discipline known today as policy analysis], "Apocalypse Soon" Foreign Policy, May/June 2005. "The whole situation... president's constant companion"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Russia has less than four minutes to decide.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">A.G. Arbatov et al [Institute of International Economy and Foreign Relations] "De-Alerting Russian and US nuclear weapons: A path to reducing nuclear dangers" http://www.ieer.org/russian/pubs/dlrtbk-e.html. "Mutual mistrust and... period of time"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Third, domestic political unrest by emerging nuclear powers increases the likelihood of an accidental launch by encouraging unsafe transportation, exercise, or testing operations.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Scott Sagan [Scott Sagan, Professor of Political Science and Co-Director of the Center for International Security at Stanford University, and ], "The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: A Debate Renewed" Chapter 2 More Will Be Worse. W.W. Norton & Company. "The fifth reason... of the program"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">An Accidental launch would cause a retaliatory response resulting in billions of casualties.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Lachlan Forrow, et al [Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard], "Accidental Nuclear War -- A Post-Cold War Assessment" The New England Journal of Medicine. Vol. 338:1326-1332" April 30, 1998. "Public health professionals... indirect casualties worldwide"</span>


<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Contention 2: Nuclear Terrorism</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">First, the theft of nuclear fissile material by terrorists is likely.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Travis Sharp and Erica Poff [The Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation], "Understanding and Preventing Nuclear Terrorism" (Dec 3, 2008) "In his 2008... South African government"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Second, the smuggling of nuclear weapons to non-state actors is likely. AQ Khan in Pakistan proves.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Charles D. Ferguson and William C. Potter [The Center for Nonproliferation Studies], "The Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism" "In Pakistan... hands of terrorists"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Third, if third world countries get access to weapons the likelihood of transferring nuclear weapons to terrorists is high.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Stephen Peter Rosen [Harvard College Professor and Beton Michael Kaneb Professor of National Security and Military Affairs at Harvard University. In addition to his academic work, Rosen was also Master of Harvard College's Winthrop House.], "After Proliferation: What to do if more states go nuclear" Council on Foreign Relations. Foreign Affairs, Vol. 85, No. 5 (Sep. - Oct., 2006), pp. 9-14. "One of the... as to punish it"</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Graham Allison, the leading expert on nuclear terrorism, describes a conservative estimate of a single nuclear terrorist attack.</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 15.2pt;">Graham Allison 2007 [Director of Harvard’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs], “How Likely is a Nuclear Terrorist Attack on the United States?” Council on Foreign Relations Online Debate, April 17, 2007. Accessed April 16, 2010. "Let's run a... by 7.5 percent"</span>





==Negative== 
==**Self Defense NC**== 
<span style="color: black;">States are not moral actors, so the “ought” in the resolution is non-moral. </span>
Lloyd P. Gerson [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Toronto] “THE MORALITY OF NATIONS: AN ARISTOTELIAN APPROACH” <span style="color: black;">ARISTOTLE’S POLITICS TODAY. 2007. </span>P84. “another way to look….know that it won.”

<span style="color: black;">It is permissible for states to act in self-defense.</span>
<span style="color: black;"> John J. Mearsheimer [R Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science, The University of Chicago.] “Back to the Future: Instability in Europe after the Cold War” International Security, Vol. 15, No. 1 (Summer, 1990), pp. 5-56. “conflict is common among…the expense of rivals.”</span>

<span style="color: black;"> The standard is **self-defense**</span>

<span style="color: black;"> It is permissible to possess nuclear weapons because states may have legitimate, prudential reasons to want them. </span>Kyle Beardsley [Professor of Political Science, Emory] and Victor Asal [Professor of Political Science, SUNY Albany], “Winning with the Bomb,” Journal of Conflict Resolution 52 (Jan. 2009), 296-297. “Since August 9, 1945, no…. Matthew Fuhrmann (2009, this issue).”

==Deterrence DA== 
First, nuclear deterrence is effective in deterring major wars.
Feldman, Shai 07, "Nuclear Weapons and Arms Control in the Middle East”; Center for Science and International Affairs.
Effective deterrence requires... state's nuclear weapons.

Second, nuclear weapons deters conflict between great powers.
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.5pt;">Bruno Tertrais (Senior Research Fellow, Fondation pour la Recherche Strategique), “The Illogic of Zero”, THE WASHINGTON QUARTERLY, Center for Strategic and International Studies, APRIL 2010. <span style="color: blue;">[[http://wiki.victorybriefs.com/downloads/0816/Tertrais_10_The_llogic_of_Zero.pdf]]</span></span>


==**De-Alert/Rload CP**== 
I. Text: States ought to de-alert their missiles by removing them off hair-trigger alert and remove the Launch on Warning (LOW) policy and establish a Retaliatory Launch Only After Detonation (RLOAD) policy.

RLOAD solves false warning.
Phillips and Starr [<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT;">Alan Phillips is a retired physicist and physician who did radar research for the British army during World War II. </span>

<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT; font-size: 10pt;">He lives in Kennett Square, Pennsylvania. Steven Starr, who trained in nuclear engineering, works as a medical technologist in Columbia, Missouri.], “Replace Launch on Warning Policy” "It is not... goes to zero"</span>

De-alerting solves gaps in warning satellites, breakdown of systems, perceived vulnerability of command systems, and growing reliance on launch on warning policy.
Thomas H. Karas “De-Alerting and De-activating strategic Nuclear Weapons” Sandias Report. (April 2001) "The continuous ability... of those systems"

De-alerting solves technical faults and failures, control system errors, miscalculation, and unauthorized use.
Arbatov et al [Institute of Internatioanl Economy and Foreign Relations Russian Academy of Sciences], "De-Alerting Russian and US Nuclear Weapons: A parth to reducing nuclear dangers" "The high alert... the nuclear weapons"

==**CTBT CP**== 
I. Text: States ought to ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. (CTBT)

CTBT will solve for testing accidents and explosions.
Thomas Graham [Former General Counsel and Acting Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency Special Representative of the President for Arms Control, Non-Proliferation, and Disarmament (1994 through 1997)], "Nuclear Testing and Proliferation -- An Inextricable Connection" Disarmament Diplomacy. Issue No. 91, Summer 2009. "A decade has lapsed... Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT)".

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Deont AC== 

Ought” denotes a moral obligation, so I value morality. Every agent must act for reasons, and this generates moral obligations.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">J. David Velleman [Professor of Philosophy, NYU], Self to Self (2006), 20. “At this point… Act for reasons.” </span>

We have an obligation to treat individuals as ends-in-themselves.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">J. David Velleman [Professor of Philosophy, NYU], Self to Self (2006), 20. “If your happiness… the person himself.” </span>

the standard is respecting the inviolability of innocent persons

Contention 1 is that addicts are not morally responsible.

First are the requirements for moral responsibility.
Susan Wolf [A moral philosopher and philosopher of action who is currently the Edna J. Koury Professor of Philosophy at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Science]“Responsibility, Character, and the Emotions” New Essays in Moral Psychology. Cambridge University Press. FD “<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">As Frankfurt, Watson…(or improve) ourselves.” </span>

Second, drug addiction is a disease that addicts cannot control.
Alan Leshner [<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Chief Executive Officer at the American Association for the Advancement of Science and Executive Publisher</span>] “Addiction Is a Brain Disease” Issues in Science and Technology, 2001. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[[http://csam-asam.org/pdf/misc/brain_disease.pdf]]</span> “We now know in… structure and function.”

<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">Third, the steps towards drug addiction are not acts of free will. </span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">Remi J. Cadoret, MD; Ed Troughton; Thomas W. O'Gorman, MS; Ellen Heywood, MA. An Adoption Study of Genetic and Environmental Factors in Drug Abuse. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1986;43(12):1131-1136. “In a sample of 242…. increased drug abuse” Contention 2 is that Needle Exchange Programs (NEPs) will prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS. </span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">Injection drug use is the biggest cause of new HIV diagnoses. </span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">Steffanie A. Strathdee and David Vlahov [Strathdee: Department of Epidemiology, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, United States. Vlahov: Joseph L. Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, New York, United States.], "The effectiveness of needle exchange programs:A review of the science and policy" AIDScience Vol. 1, No. 16, (Dec 2001) aidscience.org/Articles/aidscience013.asp#37. FD “From the public health… epidemic takes hold.” </span>

Decriminalization in conjunction with needle exchange measures drastically decreased HIV/AIDS rates in Portugal.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">GLENN GREENWALD [Constitutional and Civil Rights Litigator] “Drug DECRIMINALIZATION IN PORTUGAL: Lessons for Creating Fair and Successful Drug Policies” CATO 2009. “</span>Since 2004, general infection… people in treatment.”

<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">This is empirically verified. </span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">Susan F. Hurley et al [Susan F. Hurley received a Ph.D., Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, Monash University]. "Effectiveness of Needle-Exchange Programmes for Prevention of HIV Infection" www.druglibrary.org/schaffer/misc/effectiveness_of_neps_for_preven.htm “__We found that in…__ of change of seroprevalence.” </span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">HIV/AIDS Causes global pandemics. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Laurie Garrett, Staff Writer</span>**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> AIDS AT 20 / An Evolving Epidemic / Scientists fear AIDS' future</span>** //Newsday - May 31, 2001//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> “Today, with the AIDS epidemic… <span class="CardsFont12pt">DNA to cause disease.</span>” </span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">The impact is extinction. </span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">ZIMMERMAN 1996 (Barry and David, both have M.S. degrees from Long Island University, Killer Germs p 132) “</span><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">Then came AIDS… is the virus</span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">” </span>






==Negative== 

==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Drug Courts CP</span>**== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">I. </span>Text: All drug abusers ought to be treated through Drug Courts.

<span style="color: #312a2a; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Douglas Marlowe et al. [Douglas Marlowe works at the Treatment Research Institute at the University of Pennsylvania, </span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cad.sagepub.com/search?author1=David+S.+Festinger&sortspec=date&submit=Submit|David S. Festinger]]</span><span style="color: #312a2a; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> at the Treatment Research Institute at the University of Pennsylvania, </span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cad.sagepub.com/search?author1=Patricia+A.+Lee&sortspec=date&submit=Submit|Patricia A. Lee]]</span><span style="color: #312a2a; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> at the Treatment Research Institute at the University of Pennsylvania, </span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cad.sagepub.com/search?author1=Karen+L.+Dugosh&sortspec=date&submit=Submit|Karen L. Dugosh]]</span><span style="color: #312a2a; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> at the Treatment Research Institute at the University of Pennsylvania, </span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cad.sagepub.com/search?author1=Kathleen+M.+Benasutti&sortspec=date&submit=Submit|Kathleen M. Benasutti]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> at the </span><span style="color: #312a2a; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Treatment Research Institute at the University of Pennsylvania.] “Matching Judicial Supervision to Clients’ Risk Status in Drug Court</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> ““Drug courts are separately identified … supervision or incarceration.” </span><span style="color: #272700; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Crime Delinquency vol. 52 no. 1 January 2006 pp52-76. “</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Drug courts are… supervision or incarceration.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">II. </span>Competition: The CP is mutually exclusive and net beneficial.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">III. </span>Net Benefits:
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">1. </span>First, drug courts decrease the amount of drug offenders.
<span style="color: #141314; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">David Wilson et al [David Wilson received his Ph.D. from George Mason University. Administration of Justice, George Mason], "A systematic review of drug court effects on recidivism" Journal of Experimental Crimonology (2006) FD “</span>The findings presented… high-quality randomized studies.”

<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. </span>This is key to prevent terrorism. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-left: 0in;">Mark A.R. Kleiman [Contractor, Domestic Social Policy Division], “Illicit Drugs and the Terrorist Threat: Causal Links and Implications for Domestic Drug Control Policy”, CRS Report for Congress, 15. 2004 RK</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">3. </span>Terrorism leaves a strong impact on the world.
Hamid Sahrestani [Ohio University], "Protectivity Versus Productivity and Economic Growth: Empirical Evidence from selected countries" International Business and Economics Reseasrch Journal - October 2008 FD

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">4. </span>Drug abuse and violent crime are closely related.
DEA “According to the [In] 1999… families, and lives.”


==START DA== 
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">Subpoint A: The START Treaty will pass with broad bipartisan support.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">The Hill 10/27/10 </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">(“Lugar: Fallout from election could derail vote on START treaty,” pg online @ [[https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=2b4328c3ca624bb68aaf30a15dd45876&URL=http%3a%2f%2fthehill.com%2fhomenews%2fsenate%2f126161-midterm-election-fallout-could-derail-start-treaty-vote-key-republican-says|http://thehill.com/homenews/senate/126161-midterm-election-fallout-could-derail-start-treaty-vote-key-republican-says]] //ghs-ef)// </span>
//<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">“Secretary of State…expired in December.” </span>//

//<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">Subpoint B: Going soft on drugs is political suicide for Obama. Legalization or decriminalization will kill his political capital. </span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: .1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: .1pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Joshua Keating</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">—19 October 2009. [Associate Editor at Foreign Policy]. Is Obama winding down the war on drugs? Foreign Policy. </span></span>//

//<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">“In a column…of the debate.” </span>//

//<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">Subpoint C: Without political capital , the treaty will collapse. Obama’s political capital is key. </span>//
//<span style="margin-bottom: .1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: .1pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Jonathon McLaughlin</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">, Program Assistant at the Natural Resources Defense Council, 9/22. “The Road to New START Ratification and Beyond,”[[https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=2b4328c3ca624bb68aaf30a15dd45876&URL=http%3a%2f%2fswitchboard.nrdc.org%2fblogs%2fjmclaughlin%2fthe_road_to_new_start_ratifica.html|http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/jmclaughlin/the_road_to_new_start_ratifica.html]] </span></span>//
//<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">“Unfortunately, the polarizing…not a give.” </span>//

//<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">Subpoint D: START prevents nuclear war. </span>//
//<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">Mike Blanchfield, “Obama’s Nuclear-Weapons Adviser Delivers Doomsday Scenario,” </span>//The Vancouver Sun//, July 4, 2009, available at[[https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=2b4328c3ca624bb68aaf30a15dd45876&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.commondreams.org%2fheadline%2f2009%2f07%2f04-1|http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2009/07/04-1]]. Accessed April 20, 2010.
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">“Still, Blair and…them,” Blair said.” </span>

==START UPDATES== 
Despite elections, START will pass with broad bipartisan support.
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The Progress Report 11/5/</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">10 "GOP's Test START" pr.thinkprogress.org </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Following the election... ratify the treaty.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Anti-Retroviral Therapy CP</span>== 
Elizabeth Landau, [CNN], “Expert: Using antiretroviral drugs early may curb HIV/AIDS spread”, [[http://articles.cnn.com/2010-02-20/health/hiv.antiretroviral.drugs_1_hiv-tests-antiretroviral-treatment-allergy-and-infectious-diseases?_s=PM:HEALTH]]
Antiretroviral drugs that... years," Williams said.

==Consequentialism FW== 
Knowledge is a matter of inference to the best explanation.
Jonathan Vogel [Professor of Philosophy, Amherst College], “Skepticism and Inference to the Best Explanation,” Journal of Philosophy 1990, 4-5.
These remarks about... reject the competitors.

Consequentialism is a better explanation of fundamental moral truths.
Phillip Pettit [Professor of Politics and Philosophy, Princeton University], “Consequentialism” in A Companion to Ethics, ed. Peter Singer (1993), 238.
There are at... of practical rationality.
S - maximizing good consequences



=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Deterrence AC=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Deterrence AC </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Knowledge is a matter of inference to the best explanation. Jonathan Vogel [Professor of Philosophy, Amherst College], “Skepticism and Inference to the Best Explanation,” Journal of Philosophy 1990, 4-5 “These remarks about… reject the competitors.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The deontological story is non-unified, ad hoc, and at odds with non-moral rationality. Phillip Pettit [Professor of Politics and Philosophy, Princeton University], “Consequentialism” in A Companion to Ethics, ed. Peter Singer (1993), 238.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“There are at least… of practical rationality.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">the standard is maximizing good consequences. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Treating juveniles as adults does not mean they are punished the same way. Barry C. Feld, [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Soci-ology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966.] “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy”, “The Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology”, 88:1 pp.64-136 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Punishing youth does… on a voluntary basis.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention one is the harms.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The impact of juvenile crime is staggering. Online lawyer source:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.onlinelawyersource.com/criminal_law/juvenile/statistics.html]] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Juvenile crime statistics… percent are strangers.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">My impact is cyclical.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">David Myers “Boys Among Men: trying and sentencing juveniles as adults” 1968.</span>
There is both... the principal solution.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2) The JJS has high rates of sexual assault and violence. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Guards in the Florida JJS sexually assault and abuse the juveniles. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Douglas E. Abrams [Associate Professor of Law, University of Missouri-Columbia School of Law], “Reforming Juvenile Delinquency Treatment to Enhance Rehabilitation, Personal Accountability, and Public Safety” The University of Oregon Law Review. 84 Or. L. Rev. 1001. 2005</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“In early 2004, the… change his diaper.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. Juveniles suffer from physical and sexual assault at hands of other youths. Abrams 2 “At Bridge City, officers… broken noses and jaws.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C. Overcrowding facilities increases violence. Abrams 3 “Overreliance on incarceration… their own frustration.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3) Recidivism has four impacts. Jane Wilson [Stanford’s Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US], “Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States” Roosevelt Review. Scribd. FD “The effects of recidivism… criminality cannot be understated.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 2 is solvency.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, if juvenile punishment increased proportionally with those of adults then juvenile crime rates would have dropped by 74%. Steven D. Levitt [Harvard Society of Fellows], “Juvenile Crime and Punishment” NBER Working Paper No. 6191. Law and Economics and Public Economics. (Sept 1997) FD “Using the results… relative to adults.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Levitt evidence could not be better on this question. Levitt 2 “Equation 4 is estimated… presented in Table 4.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">if juveniles are not tried and punished as adults, rational juveniles will become aware that they can get preferential treatment and lenient sentences, making it easier for juveniles to carry out violent crimes. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bernard, Thomas J. The Cycle of Juvenile Justice. Oxford University Press: New York, 1992. (p. 169) “Some youthful offenders… if they are caught.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Moreover, your studies fall to a selection bias. Elizabeth S. Scott and Laurence Steinberg [Professor of Law at Columbia University and Professor of Psychology at Temple], “Rethinking Juvenile Justice” 2008 p. 202-3. FD “Studies finding that adult… in the former jurisdiction.”</span>


===Deterrence AC V2=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Knowledge is a matter of inference to the best explanation. Jonathan Vogel [Professor of Philosophy, Amherst College], “Skepticism and Inference to the Best Explanation,” Journal of Philosophy 1990, 4-5. “These remarks about …reject the competitors.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The deontological story is non-unified, ad hoc, and at odds with non-moral rationality. Phillip Pettit [Professor of Politics and Philosophy, Princeton University], “Consequentialism” in A Companion to Ethics, ed. Peter Singer (1993), 238.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“There are at least… of practical rationality.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">the standard is maximizing good consequences. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">My sole contention is that treating juveniles charged with violent felonies as adults better deters crime.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Subpoint A: It is crucial to separate the concepts of deterrence and recidivism. General deterrence refers to discouraging would-be offenders from committing crime in the first place.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Subpoint B: The impact of violent felonies is huge.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Juvenile arrest rates for murder rose 177 percent over 15 years. Steven D. Levitt [Harvard Society of Fellows], “Juvenile Crime and Punishment” NBER Working Paper No. 6191. Law and Economics and Public Economics. (Sept 1997) FD “The divergence of juvenile… been relatively steady.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We will face a future wave of violence worse than we’ve seen in the 90’s. James alan Fox [Ph.D Dean, College of Criminal Justice Northeastern University], "Trends in Juvenile Violence: A report to the United States Attorney General on Current and Future Rates of Juvenile Offending" bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/pub/pdf/tjvfox2.pdf (March 1996) FD “From 1990 to 1994… past ten years.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The number of juveniles committing murder will increase to 5,000 a year and can increase by even more. James alan Fox [Ph.D Dean, College of Criminal Justice Northeastern University], "Trends in Juvenile Violence: A report to the United States Attorney General on Current and Future Rates of Juvenile Offending" bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/pub/pdf/tjvfox2.pdf (March 1996) FD “Even if the… increase even more.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Subpoint C: Trying juveniles charged with violent felonies as adults reduces violent crimes. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Levitt 2- Steven D. Levitt [Harvard Society of Fellows], “Juvenile Crime and Punishment” NBER Working Paper No. 6191. Law and Economics and Public Economics. (Sept 1997) FD “Equation 4 is estimated… presented in Table 4.” </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In perspective, this finding means roughly 60 percent of the variation between juvenile and adult crime rates can be explained exclusively by the severity of punishment. Levitt 3 “Using the results… rates relative to adults.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This is not merely a spurious correlation. There are three causal warrants:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Increasing the severity of punishment increases the costs of crime. Bernard, Thomas J. The Cycle of Juvenile Justice. Oxford University Press: New York, 1992. (p. 169) “Some youthful offenders… if they are caught.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Trying juveniles as adults means their records are not expunged once they reach the age of majority. Barbara Boland “Fighting Crime: The Problem of Adolescents” The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1973-) Vol. 71, No. 2 (Summer, 1980), pp. 94-97 “The confidential nature… his/her criminal career.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3. The fact that relative differences in the punitiveness of juvenile systems independently confirms that deterrence is the causal mechanism. Levitt 4 “Evidence that a substantial… is the operative force.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Underview:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. I only treat juveniles who commit violent crimes </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. I defend treating juveniles and adults in separate facilities. Barry C. Feld, [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Soci-ology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966.] “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy”, “The Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology”, 88:1 pp.64-136 FD “Punishing youth does… a voluntary basis.” ‘</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3. Age is a mitigating factor </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">4. The round ought to be decided on the preponderance of evidence standard. </span>

===Crime Syndicates AC=== 
S- Maximizing good consequences
Disparities between adults and juveniles in sentencing create incentives for crime syndicates, which are run by adults, to recruit juveniles.
Crime bosses recruit juveniles to do their work because of the probability of conviction and the severity of punishment is much lower for juveniles. Karen Hess “Juvenile Justice” p. 222. FD
<span class="Underline">“Gangs often purposely…adult correctional facilities.” </span>
Harsh criminal penalties have led drug traffickers to recruit juveniles. Ethan A. Nadelmann, Shooting Up: Crime and the Drug Laws, New Republic, June 13, 1988, at 17 “Perhaps the most…for a while.”
Juvenile status protects them from adult punishment. This increases juvenile drug trafficking.
Milan Simonich "How Detroit gang got to New Castle" (3/5/06) thirdcity.org/articles/Detroit_Gangs.pdf
<span class="Underline">“The gang called…Chief Sansone said.” </span>
Younger juveniles are recruited to avoid punitive sanctions in adult courts leading to drug trafficking.
Timothy Bynum [Michigan State University], "The Anti-Gang Initiative in Detroit: An Aggressive Enforcement Approach to Gangs" School of Justice Studies Faculty Papers
“As traditional social…by criminal courts.”
Juveniles are recruited into criminal organizations and stay with them into adulthood because of their perception of receiving a lot of wealth as a gang leader. Larry J. Siegel, Brandon Welsh “Juvenile Delinquency: Theory, Practice, and Law”. P 71.
“The choice of…a gang member.”
Their continued affiliation is a result of perceived vulnerabilities of leaving the gang. Milton Keynes "Report WP8 - Aspects of deviance, crime and prevention in Europe" Report of the Final Conference - WP8. ICCCR Open University. (June 2009)
“Gang members who…by their departure.”
Gang affiliation creates systemic crime patterns and dependency on other gang members that isolates them from their families, legitimizing the idea of a “career criminal”. Keynes 2
“As we not…cracked out or dead.”
Those who are affiliated with a gang have higher reconviction rates compared to those who are not involved. Hess:
“Huebner et al…commit other crimes.”
Drug trafficking leads to terrorism. Rachel Ehrenfeld [Director -- American Center for Democracy & the New York City Center for the Study of Corruption and the rule of the law (CSC)] "Funding terrorism: sources and methods" 2002 library.lanl.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc?event=CT2002&document=30
<span class="Underline">“We have heard…Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS).” </span>
TERRORISM LEADS TO EXTINCTION. Yonah Alexander [Professor and Director, Inter-University Center for Terrorism] “Terrorism in the Twenty-First Century: Threats and Responses,” DEPAUL BUSINESS LAW JOURNAL v. 12, Fall 1999/Spring 2000, p. 79-80.
“More specifically, present…of civilization itself.”
Drug abuse leads to poverty. Robert Kaestner [Robert Kaestner is a Professor in the University of Illinois at Chicago's Department of Economics and a member of the Institute of Government and Public Affairs.] “Does Drug use cause poverty?” The Economic Analysis of Substance Use and Abuse: An Integrational of Econometrics and Behavioral Economic Research. University of Chicago Press. (January 1999)
“In this paper…on people’s lives.”
Poverty disrespects humanity. Forward Journal "Newsflash: Poverty is Bad for your health" disabledfeminists.com/2010/02/08/newsflash-poverty-is-bad-for-your-health
“A recent study…chronic health condition.”
==Negative== 
===Rationality NC=== 
Value is morality

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE NOT RATIONAL OUGHT NOT BE PUNISHED. Stephen Morse [</span>Stephen Morse is a <span style="color: #00134c; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ferdinand Wakeman Hubbell Professor of Law; Professor of Psychology and Law in Psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania.</span>]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> “Rationality and Responsibility” “The law’s concept… perform some task.” </span>

All people guilty of committing a crime ought to be punished. This ensures equality within a society. James Rachels [He received his Ph.D. in 1967 from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, studying under Professors W. D. Falk and E. M. Adams. He taught at the University of Richmond, New York University, the University of Miami, Duke University and the University of Alabama at Birmingham, where he spent the last twenty-six years of his career.], "Punishment and Desert” Ethics in Practice.. “As we have seen… restores the balance.”

the standard is respecting moral culpability.

First, juvenile’s prefrontal cortex in their brain is not fully developed. Jennings [J.D. Candidate 2011: Duke University School of Law], “Juvenile Justice, Sullivan, and Graham: How the Supreme court’s Decisions will change the neuroscience debate” FD “Supporters of the… of brain communication.”

Because a juvenile’s prefrontal cortex is still developing, juveniles rely on the Amygdala, which increases the likelihood of irrational decision-making. Jennings [J.D. Candidate 2011: Duke University School of Law], “Juvenile Justice, Sullivan, and Graham: How the Supreme court’s Decisions will change the neuroscience debate” FD “Because the frontal… and risky behavior.”

===Missouri CP=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">I. Text: Juveniles charged with violent offenses in the United States will be treated through the Missouri Division of Youth Services model of rehabilitation</span>
Dick Mendel, [editor of AdvoCasey], “Show & Tell: Missouri’s Division of Youth Services acts as a national model.” American Correctional Association Inc., [[http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Show+%26+Tell:+Missouri's+Division+of+Youth+Services+acts+as+a+national...-a0126119017]]
Until recently, few... just 24.3 percent.

===Recidivism NC=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">S- Maximizing good consequences</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Contention 1 is Recidivism.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, juveniles transferred to the criminal system have higher recidivism rates. Florida proves. Frontline; [1] Frontline, “Juvenile Justice: Does Treating Kids Like Adults Make a Difference?” WGBH Educational Foundation, January 2001.</span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; padding-right: 10px;"> [[http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/juvenile/stats/kidslikeadults.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “A 1996 Florida…in juvenile courts”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, trying juveniles as adults results in no punishment increasing juveniles incentive to reoffend. Elsea:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Trying juveniles in…an adult prison.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Recidivism has four impacts. Jane Wilson [Stanford’s Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US], “Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States” Roosevelt Review. Scribd.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “The effects of…cannot be understated.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Contention 2 is violence in prison. Juveniles are more likely to be harmed and even killed in adult prisons. Richard Redding [Professor of Law at Chapman University School], "Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency" Office of Justice Programs (June 2010)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Juveniles in adult…even more violent.”</span>

===Ptx DA=== 

Obama will get his 2012 budget passed but he needs to maintain political capital to influence congressman to get on board. Pipes 4/13 (Kasey S. Pipes wrote speeches for President Bush and Governor Schwarzenegger, authored “Ike’s Final Battle: The Road to Little Rock and the Challenge of Equality,” and is the Norris Senior Fellow at the Eisenhower Institute of Gettysburg College, "Obama Has Been Given a Second Chance on the Debt -- He Should Shake Up His Party and Embrace Entitlement Reform", www.foxnews.com/opinion/2011/04/13/obama-given-second-chance-debt-shake-party-embrace-entitlement-reform//ghs-avi)
<span class="Underline">“Yet this deference…a second term.” </span>
<span class="Underline">Overturning Roper v Simmons would be highly controversial. Polls prove that less than half of Americans support the death penalty as applied to juveniles. Tom W. Smith, [Director of the General Social Survey], National Opinion Research Center, Chicago Tribune, December 7, 2003, http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/node/1041 </span>
<span class="Underline">“A series of…the mentally retarded.” </span>
[[#_Toc240351537]]<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">congress, which will increase partisanship over the issue. Republicans will take any issue as an excuse to not be on board with obama’s budget. </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Ignagni and Meernik 94</span></span> Professor at the University of Texas, PhD from MSU, Associate Dean for Academic Affairs for the College of Liberal Arts AND Professor and Department Chair of Political Science at UNT [Joseph and James, "Explaining Congressional Attempts to Reverse Supreme Court Decisions" Political Research Quarterly, Vol 47, No 2, June, p. 356-357, JSTOR]
<span class="Underline">“Senators and representatives…of the case.” </span>
The Budget is key to developing the nation’s transportation infrastructure by building high speed rails.
Sneider 3/2k11
(Julie, Assistant Editor at Progressive Railroading, “Rail and federal funding: Obama's FY2012 budget and the proposed FY2011 cuts” pg online @ [http://www.progressiverailroading.com/pr/article/Rail-and-federal-funding-Obama39s-FY2012-budget-and-the-proposed-FY2011-cuts--25977]//greenhill-au)
<span class="Underline">“President Barack Obama’s…a prepared statement.” </span>
The high speed sail is key to agriculture transports.
Breakthrough Generation 8
(Breakthrough Institute is the parent think tank, which is a progressive think tank, "Railrouads: fast, clean and electric", http://breakthroughgen.org/2008/07/16/railroads-fast-clean-and-electric/)
<span class="Underline">“However Drake allows…of national security.” </span>
Agricultural transports are key to the US agricultural industry.
[[#_Toc228541128]]
(Norm Senator From Minnesota, 11/9, Discussion on Agricultural Transportation and Energy Issues, http://www.access.gpo.gov/congress/senate/pdf/109hrg/28421.pdf)
<span class="Underline">“This hearing of…of transportation down.” </span>
Collapse of US agriculture culminates in human extinction
Lugar 2k
(Richard, a US Senator from Indiana, is Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and a member and former chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “calls for a new green revolution to combat global warming and reduce world instability,” pg online @ <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.unep.org/OurPlanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html]]</span> //ghs-ef)
<span class="Underline">“In a world…of our planet.” </span>
=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative==