<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[toc]]
</span>


=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px;">**September-October**</span>= 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>== 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>== 

=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px;">**November-December**</span>= 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>== 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>== 

=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px;">**January-February**</span>= 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> DUE PROCESS AC </span>=== 

OBS 1:
Definition of charge:
"charge." Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Dec. 2010. <Dictionary.com<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/charge]]</span>>.
"To make an...in the indictment"

Value: Justice
VC: maintaining consistency with the law

First, due process protections are the practical means by which individual rights are asserted as a check against unrestrained use of the criminal law by the government.
Herbert L. Packer—1993. Two Models of The Criminal Process. The Limits of Criminal Sanction. Sage Publications, pp. 36-37.
"Since the 1980's...criminal history score."

Second, using fair procedures is on the only way to ensure that outcomes are fair and maximize desirable ends.
Ronald O. Otterstein—December 1992. [B.A. University of British Columbia. M.A. Department of Philosophy]. Is Nuclear Deterrence Rational?
"it might seem...sometimes utility maximizing."


Third, Due process rights are vital to public compliance with the law.
Tracey Meares [Max Pam Professor and Director of the Center for Studies in Criminal Justice, The University of Chicago Law School; Senior Research Fellow, American Bar Foundation], “Everything Old is New Again: Fundamental Fairness and the Legitimacy of Criminal Justice,” Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, Vol 3:105 (2005)
"It goes almost...trial is 'fair'".


CONTENTION 1: The justice system is unable to protect due process.
First, Juvenile courts deny defendants trial by jury.
Barry C. Feld—Autumn 1997. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966]. Abolish The Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy. The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 88, No. 1, pp. 68-136.
"Although the right...from public scrutiny."


Second, Juvenile courts obstruct the right to counsel
Marsha Levick [Legal Director and Co-founder, Juvenile Law Center; Adjunct Professor of
Law, University of Pennsylvania School of Law and Temple University, Beasley School
of Law] and Neha Desai [Sol and Helen Zubrow Fellow, Juvenile Law Center], “STILL WAITING: THE ELUSIVE QUEST TO ENSURE JUVENILES A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO COUNSEL AT ALL STAGES OF THE JUVENILE COURT PROCESS,” Rutgers Law Review, Vol. 60:1 (2007), pp. 175-205, 175-178.
"forty years after...in resources remain."


Third, defendants are unlikely to forcefully assert their rights.
Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 520-522 <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4]]</span>>
"By most accounts...to receive services."


Contention Two: The adult court system is ideally situated to protect due process of all accused persons.
The criminal courts are equipped to address the unique circumstances and characteristics of each case
Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.
"Perhaps the most...look as follows."

The existing infrastructure of the juvenile and adult correctional systems would continue operate effectively and unhindered if juveniles were tried in the criminal justice system
Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.
"As Butts and ...criminal justice system."
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Recidivism NC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Also, consequentialism is the only standard that meets the logical requirements for moral decision-making. Because moral rules are not empirically verifiable, free and rational moral agents are responsible for the maxims they employ when faced with a moral dilemma. Thus, moral rules must rationally guide our actions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 1.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "I ask the...as a burden."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Any rational reason that an agent can construct for taking an action commits that actor to endorsing a universalizable maxim. If there is a reason for me to take an action, it must apply to all similar circumstances. Otherwise, it isn’t a reason at all.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "I mention these...to maximize satisfactions."</span>

Sending juveniles to adult prison actually increases recidivism.
"Studies have found...the short run."
Kelly M. Angell, University of Southern California Law School, ’04, Southern California Interdisciplinary Law Journal, 14:125, p. 140]

There are 5 reasons why being incarcerated in criminal courts, rather than juvneile courts increases recidivism rates
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>
[1] Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School

"experts have identified...and community reintegration.

Even just being TRIED in the criminal court and not being punished increases recidivism by fostering a sense of injustice in juveniles.
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>
"Findings from several...tried as adults."


Recidivism has four impacts.
Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.
"The effects of...cannot be understood."

CONTENTION 2: Violence in prison
Juveniles are more likely to be harmed and even killed in adult prisons.
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>

"Juveniles in adult...dealing with difficult"

CLS KRITIK

<span style="font-family: Calibri,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 19px; line-height: 27px;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">These claims of systemic objectivity prevent criticism of traditional legal discourse. </span>**</span>

**Gordon**[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> ’97</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">"Now a central ...<span style="font-size: 16px; font-weight: 800;">and rational choices."</span></span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px; font-weight: 800;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">It may be possible for an idea to be static but words are always open to interpretation by the representation of that codified law. **Peller**</span>[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> ’85 </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px; font-weight: 800;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">"In law, before...<span style="font-weight: 800;">part, performs politically."</span></span>__**</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px; font-weight: 800;"> __<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Hutchinson</span>**[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**__</span> __<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ‘84 concurs </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">that there is no rhyme or reason to court adjudication</span>**;__ 


__<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Calibri;">"Traditional jurisprudence seeks...<span style="font-size: 8px;">disequilibrium of doctrine.'"</span></span>**</span>__



<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">. In combination with the fact that people internalize this message of neutrality and thus suppress criticism, the courts use their power to cyclically reinforce the myth that allows them to deal in the suppression of the weak and powerless. </span></span>
Hutchinson**[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ’84 writes;</span>

__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Liberalism and contemporary...<span style="font-size: 16px;">world of rights.</span></span>__



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the perpetuated vision of an objective court requires the institution to suppress dissent. </span>
Henderson**[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ‘91 writes;</span>

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The lack of...<span style="font-size: 16px;">alternative legal meanings.</span></span>__

__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin-bottom: 0in;">In doing so, open up space for persistent criticism of traditional legal discourse that is the only hope of finding the alternative. </span>**Singer**[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ’84 writes;</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Legal scholars can...<span class="CardText-Underlined">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">that question ourselves</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>__


IF YOU ARE READING MY WIKI RIGHT BEFORE DEBATING ME ROUND 6 AT BLAKE - NO PREPOUT CAN STOP ME..... I WILL SEE YOU IN ROUND

Megan's Law PIC

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">registration is not considered a punishment but an automatic post-trial social protection measure. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Letourneau and Miner<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> write;</span>**</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Three trends characterize... <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 19px;">Prosecution of Child Abuse, 1999).</span></span></span>**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;"><span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Juvenile violent sex offenders differ from adult offenders insofar as their crimes are motivated by the same social factors that drive other types of offense rather than a drive toward sexual deviance. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Letourneau and Miner 2<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>;</span>**</span></span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;"><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Beyond the individual characteristics ... <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">interventions is</span></span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">questionable</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">.</span></span></span></span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Letourneau and Miner<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn1|[1]]]</span></span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> conclude by explaining that studies comparing juvenile and adult sex offenders show that juvenile sex offenders lack the deviant sexual arousal that indicates likely recidivism: </span>
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">As noted earlier,</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> ... <span style="-webkit-text-decorations-in-effect: underline; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">**adult sex offenders.**</span></span></span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;"><span style="-webkit-text-decorations-in-effect: underline; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">**<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Garfinkle</span>**</span><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> 2 writes;</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> 203-204 </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> <span style="font-size: 8px;">Another potential due...juvenile offenders adjudicated for other crimes.</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">This defamation becomes even more significant when we consider the juvenile’s status as the member of a suspect class. </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Lowe</span></span>**<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn1|**[1]**]]</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ’97 writes; </span></span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">In order to determine ... <span style="-webkit-text-decorations-in-effect: underline; font-size: 16px; font-weight: 800;">change the law.</span></span></span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"><span style="-webkit-text-decorations-in-effect: underline; font-size: 16px; font-weight: 800;">Negate BIATCH</span></span></span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;">
----
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Copyright (c) 1997 Jefferson Law Book Company, Division of Anderson Publishing Co.  Journal of Law & Education </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">**//<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">CHALK TALK: School Notification of Students' Sexual Offense Convictions: Does it Protect Our Children or Impede Quality Education? </span>//**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">October, 1997 </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">26 J.L. & Educ. 169 </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 7.0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Author </span>**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">R. JEFFREY LOWE. LexisNexis </span></span>
</span></span>
----
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;"><span style="line-height: 22.0pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]</span> <span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Coming of Age in America: The Misapplication of Sex-Offender Registration and Community-Notification Laws to Juveniles </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Elizabeth Garfinkle. 1993. JSTOR.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>
</span></span>**</span></span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;">
----
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]</span> <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Elizabeth J. Letournaeu and Michael H. Miner. (2005) “Juvenile Sex Offenders: A Case Against the Legal and Clinical Status Quo.” //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Sexual Abuse: a Journal of Research and Treatment</span>//. 17:293. </span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 7.0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">http://sax.sagepub.com/content/17/3/293</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> </span></span>
</span></span></span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;"><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;">
----
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Elizabeth J. Letournaeu and Michael H. Miner. (2005) “Juvenile Sex Offenders: A Case Against the Legal and Clinical Status Quo.” //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Sexual Abuse: a Journal of Research and Treatment</span>//. 17:300. </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">http://sax.sagepub.com/content/17/3/293</span></span>
</span></span>
----
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;"><span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> Elizabeth J. Letournaeu and Michael H. Miner. (2005) “Juvenile Sex Offenders: A Case Against the Legal and Clinical Status Quo.” //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Sexual Abuse: a Journal of Research and Treatment</span>//. 17:293. </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">http://sax.sagepub.com/content/17/3/293</span></span>
</span></span>
----

<span style="display: block;"> [[#_ftnref|[1]]] <span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 6pt;">Joseph William </span></span>
**<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">Singer</span>__, Associate Professor of Law at Boston University,__ <span style="font-variant: small-caps;">1984 </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 6pt;">[“The Player and the Cards: Nihilism and Legal Theory,” Yale Law Journal (94 Yale L.J. 1), November, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis] </span>__**



----

<span style="display: block;"> <span style="tab-stops: 321.1pt;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Lynne – prof law Indiana – 66 Ind. L.J. 379] </span></span>
</span>



----

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: justify;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> CRITICAL LEGAL STUDIES SYMPOSIUM: Law, Politics, and the Critical Legal Scholars: The Unfolding Drama of American Legal Thought, 36 Stan. L. Rev. 199, Stanford Law Review</span></span>



----

<span style="display: block;"> <span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Allan and Patrick Monahan, The ‘rights’ stuff: Roberto Unger and Beyond, Texas Law Review, May 1984, page 1503]</span></span>
</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px; font-weight: 800;"><span style="display: block;">
----
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in;"> [[#_ftnref|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Gary, assi. prof law UVA – 73 Calif. L. Rev. 1151]</span></span>
</span>

----

<span style="display: block;"> <span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [R.W., Professor of Law, Stanford University Unfreezing Legal Reality: Critical Approaches to Law, 15 Fla. St. U.L. Rev. 195, pg. L/N]</span></span>
</span>



=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px;">**March-April**</span>= 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>== 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]</span>