[[toc]]
=Contact info= 
aff- Abhi- debate[dot]thug[at]gmail[dot]com
neg- Andy- oxfordcomma12[at]gmail[dot]com
=Affirmative= 

==LONG BEACH 1AC== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">**<span style="color: black;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence to levels consistent with a counter terrorism doctrine in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">**Contention 1:No disads**</span>

**Obama announced a 2011 withdrawal deadline but we won’t meet it**
**__Rice 10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (August 17, 2010; Patreus’ Promise; Mark Rice, Chief Reporter for the Stanford Review,</span> [[http://bellum.stanfordreview.org/?cat=1|__http://bellum.stanfordreview.org/?cat=1__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.) </span>

__With__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gen. David </span>__… Petraeus’ direct control.__

**No turns- COIN is not sustainable over the long haul- that makes all turns inevitable absent a transition**
**Snow 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Donald M. Snow, Professor Emeritus at the University of Alabama, “Will COIN work in Afghanistan?”, Atlantic Council, , July 20, 2010, [[http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/will-coin-work-afghanistan]]) </span>

__<span style="color: #333333;">The document does …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> safe-havens along the border. </span>

**The July 2011 Withdrawal date destroyed the perception of US commitment in Afghanistan**
**Rubin 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (Michael Rubin, Resident Author at the AIE, March 10, 2010; “Afghanistan Deadline is not a smart policy”, http://www.aei.org/article/101765) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 7.5pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">__<span style="color: black;">While U.S. inroads </span>____<span style="color: black;">…</span>____<span style="background: aqua; color: black;"> abandonment of Afghanistan</span>____<span style="color: black;">. </span>__</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">**Contention 2 is Leadership**</span>

**Unipolarity is sustainable – declinists mistake trends for outcomes and only look at one measure of power.**
**Brooks and Wohlforth 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen G. Brooks, Prof. of Government at Dartmouth, William C. Wohlforth, Professor of Government and Chair of the Department of Government at Dartmouth, March/April, “Reshaping the World Order”, EBSCO)</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 7pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Only a few years …</span> __states <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">shifts slowly.</span>__ </span>

**Scenario 1 is Overstretch**

**<span style="color: black;">Status quo causes it </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Kretkowski, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html]]<span style="color: black;">) </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Over the winter …</span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;"> a reinvigorated Russia</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">). </span>

**Scenario 2 is Morale**

**Afghanistan kills it.**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="color: black;">Kuhner, 9 - </span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal</span><span class="Underline"> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Jeffrey, Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic) </span></span>

__<span style="color: black;">America is losing …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> welcoming </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">arms of extremists.</span>__

**That kills leadership**
**Pyne, 9** - <span class="justify1"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/) </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Since we invaded</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">…</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;"> Georgia</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> this past year. </span>

**Scenario 3 is the Dollar**

**<span style="color: black;">Status quo kills it </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Corn, 9</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> – Ph.D. from the University of Paris and is a graduate of the U.S. Naval War College, currently on leave from the US State Department (Tony, “</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">Toward a Kilcullen-Biden Plan? Bounding Counterinsurgency in Afghanistan,” Small Wars Journal, 10/21, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/2009/10/toward-a-kilcullenbiden-plan/</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Just do the math - </span>__<span style="color: black;">…</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> advocated by Vice-President Joe Biden. </span>

**COIN specifically causes it- a collapse means the CP gets rolled back**
**Layne,** **Professor and Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at Texas,** **10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christopher Layne, “Graceful Decline,” The American Conservative, May 2010, [[@http://www.amconmag.com/article/2010/may/01/00030/|http://www.amconmag.com/ article/2010/may/01/00030/]])</span>
<span class="body1">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">The dollar’s vulnerability … Afghanistan</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> and Iraq.</span>__</span>
**Economic leadership prevents economic collapse**
**Mandelbaum** **2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005 [Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 192-195] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the spread …</span> __cars without gasoline.__

**That goes nuclear without economic leadership**
**Mandelbaum 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005 [Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 224] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At best, an American …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, of nuclear weapons</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Scenario 4 is credibility** </span>

**Plan solves it**
**Innocent and Carpenter,** **CATO****, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND **vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,”** [[@http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf|http://www.cato.org/pubs/ wtpapers/escaping-graveyard- empires-strategy-exit- afghanistan.pdf]]</span>**)**

__But what we’ve …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> than would withdrawal.</span>__

**GNW**
**Carafano, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior research fellow for national security at The Heritage Foundation and directs its Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies. (James, “Obama must win fast in Afghanistan or risk new wars across the globe,” 1/2</span>[[http://gazettextra.com/news/2010/jan/02/con-obama-must-win-fast-afghanistan-or-risk-new-wa/|__http://gazettextra.com/news/2010/jan/02/con-obama-must-win-fast-afghanistan-or-risk-new-wa/__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Not much chance … big, tragic war. </span>

**Heg collapse guarantees nuclear wars around the globe.**
**Kagan, 2007**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History” //Policy Review,// http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10] </span>
<span class="Style1CharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is a good thing, …</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> an easier path. </span>

**Contention 2 is the Grand Strategy**

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Status quo COIN efforts are causing public support to plummet</span>** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span style="color: black;">Kitfield 9</span>** <span style="color: black;">(James, National Journal, "Afghanistan is Obama's war now," October 16, [[http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/1009/101609nj1.htm]])</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="color: black;">As the administration </span>____<span style="color: black;">…</span>____<span style="color: black;"> building by civilians.</span>__ </span>


<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Afghanistan is the limitus test of American military doctrines - the shift to counterterrorism leads to a change in the entirety of US foreign policy </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Gventer, 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">- Senior Defense Analyst at the RAND Corporation and a former deputy assistant secretary of defense. She served two tours in Iraq, including a year as a senior adviser to General Peter Chiarelli, the operational commander in Iraq in 2006 (Celeste, “False Promise of 'Counterinsurgency'”, 12/1,[[http://www.rand.org/commentary/2009/12/01/NYT.html]])</span> </span>
<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">“</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Co</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">unter</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">in</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">surgency," …</span>__<span style="color: black;">applying overwhelming force.</span>__</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Domestic support is the lynchpin of an active foreign policy – even if we’re the strongest, our hands will be tied.</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Kupchan and Trubowitz 7</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Charles A., Prof. Int’l Affairs @ Georgetown, and Peter L., Assoc. Prof. of Gov’t at UT Austin, “Grand Strategy for a Divided America” Foreign Affairs July/August)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 13.5pt; margin-bottom: 7.5pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 7.5pt;">Although Lippmann was … United States for leadership. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 7.5pt;">**<span style="color: black;">And- </span>****<span style="color: black;">Al-Qaeda is building its strength in Yemen now – US counterterrorism support stops it</span>** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 7.5pt;"> <span class="cite"><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">RNW 9</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Radio Netherlands Worldwide, December 30</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">,</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.rnw.nl/english/article/yemen-wants-more-help-counter-terrorism]])</span> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 7.5pt;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">The Yemeni government has said it needs more support from the West to tackle al-Qaeda</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, as details emerge of the links between the Nigerian would-be bomber of a US-bound plane and the south western Asian country. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Several hundred al-Qaeda militants are possibly operating in Yemen and could be planning attacks</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> like the attempt on Christmas Day to blow up a US jet, a Yemeni minister has said. According to US intelligence agencies, al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula has transformed itself from a regional threat into the network's most active affiliate outside Pakistan and Afghanistan. The group has claimed responsibility for the attempted bombing of a Delta Airlines plane as it approached Detroit on a flight from Amsterdam with almost 300 people on board. US media have reported that some of the leaders behind the planned attack are former detainees of the Guantanamo Bay detention facility. Appealing for more help from the US and Europe</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">, Yemen's Foreign Minister </span>____<span style="color: black;">Abu Bakr al-Qirbi <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">described the current level of assistance as "inadequate" and said his country needed more training for counter-terrorism units </span>and more military equipment</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. The growing al-Qaeda threat from Yemen had already prompted US President Barack </span>__<span style="color: black;">Obama to expand assistance to the Yemeni government to launch raids against militant hide-outs earlier this month. </span>__</span>
Al Qaeda operations in Yemen kills Saudi Stability 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Al-Watan, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Saudi national newspaper</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal;">(March 26, 2010, </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.floyd.lib.umn.edu/us/lnacademic/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T9748500170&format=GNBFI&sort=RELEVANCE&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T9748500173&cisb=22_T9748500172&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=10962&docNo=2]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, “Saudi editorial says biggest security threat to kingdom comes from Yemen”, lexis, DA: 7/15/10, JPL)</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">The detailed statement … in Yemen's mountains. </span>

**Failure to control Al Qaeda in Yemen kills Middle Eastern oil production and causes both Yemeni war and regional instability**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Al-Arabi, Arabic newspaper, 9</span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal;">(May 14, 2009, </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.floyd.lib.umn.edu/us/lnacademic/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T9748748199&format=GNBFI&sort=RELEVANCE&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T9748755202&cisb=22_T9748755201&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=10962&docNo=7]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, “Yemeni president "has the right to be concerned" about Al-Qa'idah - Arabic paper”, lexis, DA: 7/15/10, JPL)</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">In other words, these **__<span style="background: aqua;">…</span>__****__<span style="background: aqua;"> to a great danger</span>__**<span style="background: aqua;">.</span> </span>

**Saudi oil production is the biggest internal link to the global economy**
<span class="cite">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hinds, project manager of RBS Global Banking & Markets, 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal;">(Matthew, March 12, 2010, </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://lse-ideas.blogspot.com/2010/03/saudi-arabia-what-are-effects-of-global.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, “Saudi Arabia : What are the Effects of the Global Financial Crisis on Saudi Arabia’s Economic Prospects?”, LSE Ideas, DA: 7/15/10, Project Manager of the Royal Bank of Scotland, Senior Project Manager at WestLB European commercial bank, Regional Project Manager at CitiGroup, JPL) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in; tab-stops: 300.0pt;">Overall, the **__<span style="background: aqua;">lack </span>__****__…__** **__them to dominate__**. </span>

**Econ collapse causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Aaron L. </span><span class="Heading2Char">Friedberg</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton University, served from 2003 to 2005 in the office of the Vice President of the United States as deputy assistant for national-security affairs and director of policy planning. PhD in Politics from Harvard) </span><span class="Heading2Char">and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Gabriel </span><span class="Heading2Char">Schoenfeld</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (senior fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington DC and a resident scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton) October 21, </span><span class="Heading2Char">2008</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “The Dangers of a Diminished America” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=rss_opinion_main]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Then </span><span class="Highlightedunderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">there …with external adventures</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">**The plan solves – reducing to a counterterrorism focus creates sustainable presence, and prevents vacillations between engagement and isolationism**</span>
**Stewart, 9-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The best Afghan </span>____…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> less will be more. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Obama will sell the plan as a drawdown to a lighter but permanent commitment to Afghanistan – this resolves confusion over the withdrawal deadline and restores US credibility </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Stewart, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “</span><span class="sifr-alternate"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, </span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3) </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">But this moderate …</span><span style="color: black;">focus on Kashmir</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.1</span>

==<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">USC 1AC</span>== 


**<span style="color: black;">Plan: The United States federal government should reduce its military presence to a level consistent with a counter terrorism strategy in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. </span>**


**Contention 1:No disads**

**Obama announced a 2011 withdrawal deadline but we won’t meet it**
**__Rice 10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (August 17, 2010; Patreus’ Promise; Mark Rice, Chief Reporter for the Stanford Review, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://bellum.stanfordreview.org/?cat=1]]</span>.) </span>

__With__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gen. David </span>__…Petraeus’ direct control.__

**The July 2011 Withdrawal date destroyed the perception of US commitment in Afghanistan**
**Rubin 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (Michael Rubin, Resident Author at the AIE, March 10, 2010; “Afghanistan Deadline is not a smart policy”, http://www.aei.org/article/101765) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 7.5pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">While U.S. </span>____<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">… </span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">abandonment of Afghanistan</span>____<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>__</span>

**Advantage one is leadership**

**1st- Unipolarity is sustainable – declinists mistake trends for outcomes and only look at one measure of power.**
**Brooks and Wohlforth 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen G. Brooks, Prof. of Government at Dartmouth, William C. Wohlforth, Professor of Government and Chair of the Department of Government at Dartmouth, March/April, “Reshaping the World Order”, EBSCO)</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 7pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Only a few years …</span>__states shifts slowly<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span>__ </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And, </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Status quo large footprint strategies are causing public support to plummet</span>** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kitfield 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(James, National Journal, "Afghanistan is Obama's war now," October 16, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/1009/101609nj1.htm]]</span>)</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">As the administration </span>____<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">…</span>____<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> building by civilians.</span>__ </span>

<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Domestic support is the lynchpin of an active foreign policy – even if we’re the strongest, our hands will be tied.</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kupchan and Trubowitz 7</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Charles A., Prof. Int’l Affairs @ Georgetown, and Peter L., Assoc. Prof. of Gov’t at UT Austin, “Grand Strategy for a Divided America” Foreign Affairs July/August)</span> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 13.5pt; margin-bottom: 7.5pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 7.5pt;">Although Lippmann … United States for leadership. </span>
**<span style="color: black;">Status quo also causes overstretch </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Kretkowski, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html]]<span style="color: black;">) </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Over the winter …</span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;"> (China, a reinvigorated Russia</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">). </span>

**And, overstretch is inevitable absent a transition. Forces withdrawn from Iraq are being redeployed to Afghanistan and Obama is actively supporting a global COIN doctrine-**
**<span style="color: black;">Klare, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> - Five Colleges professor of Peace and World Security Studies, whose department is located at Hampshire College, defense correspondent of The Nation magazine, and author of Resource Wars and Blood and Oil: The Dangers and Consequences of America's Growing Petroleum Dependency (Michael, “'Two, Three, Many Afghanistans'”, 4/8, The Nation, http://www.thenation.com/issue/april-26-2010) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now we have …</span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">anti-Americanism and violence</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Strategic reverses are vital to preventing nuclear conflict around the globe**
**<span style="color: black;">Brookes 08</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">– Senior Fellow for National Security Affairs at The Heritage Foundation. He is also a member of the congressional U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Peter, Heritage, Why the World Still Needs America's Military Might, November 24, 2008, AS)</span>

__Let's conjure up … you'll miss it when it's gone.__

<span style="tab-stops: 405.0pt;">**Advantage Two is the War** </span>

<span style="tab-stops: 405.0pt;">**COIN fails and we will lose the war in Afghanistan – two reasons** </span>

<span style="tab-stops: 405.0pt;">**A. Population Protection** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 405.0pt;">**Etzioni, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - professor of international relations at George Washington University (Amitai, “Unshackle the Troops,” The New Republic, 8/12, lexis) </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.0pt; margin-bottom: 12.0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: 405.0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The source of our …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> excessively strict rules. </span>__</span>
**B. Kandahar and Pakistan**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Galston 10 - </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 15pt; margin-left: 1.5pt;">Let’s begin at the … clearly want to pursue? </span>

**Specifically, Afghan instability spills over into Pakistan**
**Pitt** **9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,”[[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]]) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The situation in … Pakistani nuclear infrastructure. </span>
**<span style="color: #404040;">Pakistan stability on the brink now </span>**
**Coughlin 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (8/26/10, Pakistan's floods have left a country that's too difficult to rule, Con Coughlin, Con Coughlin is an expert on international terrorism and the Middle East; with the benefit of 25 years in foreign journalism, </span>__<span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/comment/columnists/concoughlin/7963111/Pakistans-floods-have-left-a-country-thats-too-difficult-to-rule.html]]</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #404040;">If ever a country </span>__****__<span style="color: #404040;">…an even greater challenge. </span>__**
**<span style="color: black;">Pakistan collapse spills over into the rest of Asia </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Morgan 09</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]) </span>
<span style="line-height: 11.25pt; margin-right: 7.5pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">It took the Soviets </span>__<span style="color: black;">…</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan! </span></span>

**<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; padding: 0in;">Brink is now- Russia is expanding into central asia </span>**
**Zeihan 6/15**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, PhD in Asian Studies, Masters in Political and Economic development, and bachelors in political science. “The Kyrgyzstan Crisis and the Russian Dilemma”. </span>[[http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100614_kyrgyzstan_crisis_and_russian_dilemma|__http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100614_kyrgyzstan_crisis_and_russian_dilemma__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> STRATFOR often …</span> __sort of silent acquiescence__

**Instability results in escalation**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Blank 2k</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen, Prof. Research at Strategic Studies Inst. @ US Army War College, “U.S. Military Engagement with Transcaucasia and Central Asia”, www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub113.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Washington’s burgeoning military-political-economic …lasting regional commitment. </span>

**Causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephen J. </span>**Blank**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago, March </span>**2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. “<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">RUSSIA AND ARMS CONTROL: ARE THERE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?” </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Proliferators or nuclear states …</span>__or their own people__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.172 </span>


**Contention 3 is solvency-**

**A shift to a light force posture solves – leads to tribal engagement and regionalism**
**Castonguay 10**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (David Castonguay studied philosophy, mathematics, and economy and worked for a financial consultant as an analyst on China. He is a contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, a project of the Institute for Policy Studies, February 17, 2010, “In Praise of Warlords”,</span><span style="color: black;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords|__http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords__]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 15.0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, there is …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> itself can tolerate. </span>__</span>
<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Afghanistan is the limitus test of American military doctrines - the shift to counterterrorism leads to a change in the entirety of US foreign policy </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Gventer, 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">- Senior Defense Analyst at the RAND Corporation and a former deputy assistant secretary of defense. She served two tours in Iraq, including a year as a senior adviser to General Peter Chiarelli, the operational commander in Iraq in 2006 (Celeste, “False Promise of 'Counterinsurgency'”, 12/1,[[http://www.rand.org/commentary/2009/12/01/NYT.html]])</span> </span>
<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">“</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Co</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">unter</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">in</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">surgency," as described …</span>__<span style="color: black;">applying overwhelming force. </span>__</span>
**<span style="color: black;">Obama will sell the plan as a drawdown to a lighter but permanent commitment to Afghanistan – this resolves confusion over the withdrawal deadline and reinforces public support </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Stewart, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “</span><span class="sifr-alternate"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, </span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3) </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">But this moderate … much greater focus on Kashmir</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.1 </span>



==Alta 1AC== 

**<span style="color: black;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence to levels consistent with a counter terrorism strategy in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. </span>**

**Contention 1:Maybe a few disads...you know, if you wanted to read them.**
**Obama Announced a 2014 withdrawal deadline, but meeting it is contingent on the status of the war**
**<span style="color: black;">Sachs 10 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Staff Writer for the Boston Globe, <span style="letter-spacing: -0.45pt;">NATO's 2014 Afghanistan departure date laden with ambiguity,</span></span> <span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/natos-2014-afghanistan-departure-date-laden-with-ambiguity/article1807792/]]</span>**)**

**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">NATO chief </span><span style="color: black;">Anders Fogh <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Rasmussen</span></span>__** **__<span style="color: black;">… <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">and political violence throughout Afghanistan.”</span> </span>__**

**Advantage one is Multipolarity**

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Status quo large footprint strategies are causing public support to plummet</span>** </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A. The Long War</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kitfield 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(James, National Journal, "Afghanistan is Obama's war now," October 16, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/1009/101609nj1.htm]]</span>)</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">As the administration reconsiders its … difficult nation building by civilians.</span>__ </span>

**B. American casualties in Afghanistan …** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> | VP] </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">More than 100 </span>foreign <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">troops fighting … </span>, of 77 troop deaths <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">in August 2009</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">. </span></span>

**Those are key to public support**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Hammond 07</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. Army Center of Military … Civilian Deaths in Wartime” Proquest) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Part of a larger study of … were well down the line. </span>

<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Domestic support is the lynchpin of an active foreign policy – even if we’re the strongest, our hands will be tied.</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kupchan and Trubowitz 7</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Charles A., Prof. Int’l Affairs @ Georgetown, and Peter L., Assoc. Prof. of Gov’t at UT Austin, “Grand Strategy for a Divided America” Foreign Affairs July/August)</span> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 13.5pt; margin-bottom: 7.5pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 7.5pt;">Although Lippmann was mindful of … the United States for leadership. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Status quo also causes overstretch </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Kretkowski, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html]]<span style="color: black;">) </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Over the winter break I had … </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">). </span>

**And, overstretch is inevitable absent a transition. Forces withdrawn from Iraq are being redeployed to Afghanistan and Obama is actively supporting a global COIN doctrine-**
**<span style="color: black;">Klare, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> - Five Colleges professor of Peace and World Security Studies, whose department is located at Hampshire College, defense correspondent of The Nation magazine, and author of Resource Wars and Blood and Oil: The Dangers and Consequences of America's Growing Petroleum Dependency (Michael, “'Two, Three, Many Afghanistans'”, 4/8, The Nation, http://www.thenation.com/issue/april-26-2010) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now we have President Obama … </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">increased anti-Americanism and violence</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


**Kagan, 2007**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History” //Policy Review,// http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10] </span>
<span class="Style1CharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is a good thing, and … </span></span>__will provide an easier path.__


<span style="tab-stops: 405.0pt;">**Advantage Two is the War** </span>

<span style="tab-stops: 405.0pt;">**COIN fails and we will lose the war in Afghanistan** </span>

<span style="tab-stops: 405.0pt;">**A. Population Protection** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 405.0pt;">**Etzioni, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - professor of international relations at George Washington University (Amitai, “Unshackle the Troops,” The New Republic, 8/12, lexis) </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15.0pt; margin-bottom: 12.0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: 405.0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The source of our dilemma … </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">constrained by excessively strict rules. </span>__</span>
**B. Kandahar and Pakistan**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Galston 10 - </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 15pt; margin-left: 1.5pt;">Let’s begin at the beginning, … Afghans clearly want to pursue? </span>

**C. Nobody likes the central government**
**Crowe 10** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Derrick Crowe, September 12, 2010, security … </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">to start coming home, now. </span>

**Afghan instability spills over into Pakistan**
**Pitt** **9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,”[[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]]) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The situation in brief: </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Pakistan … </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">in the Pakistani nuclear infrastructure. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">No takeouts—now is uniquely dangerous for the threat of nuclear terrorism </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Guardian 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Wikileaks Cables highlight Pakistani nuclear threat, Guardian 2010.) Cable= Of </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">T</span>__****__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">he leaked US cables on … </span>__****__basis for a long-term policy.__** </span>

**<span style="color: #404040;">Pakistan stability on the brink now </span>**
**Coughlin 8/26**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (8/26/10, Pakistan's floods have left a … )</span>

**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #404040;">If ever a country were ripe … </span>__****__<span style="color: #404040;">be an even greater challenge. </span>__**
**<span style="color: black;">Pakistan collapse spills over into the rest of Asia and independently causes nuclear terrorism and an India-Pakistan war</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Morgan 09</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]) </span>
<span style="line-height: 11.25pt; margin-right: 7.5pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">It took the Soviets </span>__<span style="color: black;">10 years … </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan! </span></span>

**<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; padding: 0in;">Brink is now- Russia is expanding into central asia </span>**
**Zeihan 6/15**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, PhD in Asian … </span>__into a sort of silent acquiescence__

**Instability results in escalation**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Blank 2k</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen, Prof. Research at Strategic Studies Inst. @ US Army War College, “U.S. Military Engagement with Transcaucasia and Central Asia”, www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub113.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Washington’s burgeoning military-political-economic … a strong and lasting regional commitment. </span>

**Causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephen J. </span>**Blank**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago, March </span>**2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. “<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">RUSSIA AND ARMS CONTROL: ARE THERE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?” </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Proliferators or nuclear states like … </span>__neighbors or their own people__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.172 </span>

**Contention 3 is topicality-**

**Strategic reserves independently solve hegemony**
**<span style="color: black;">Brookes 08</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">– Senior Fellow for National Security Affairs at The Heritage Foundation. He is also a member of the congressional U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Peter, Heritage, Why the World Still Needs America's Military Might, November 24, 2008, AS)</span>

**__Of course, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">there are … </span>__**__miss it when it's gone.__

**A shift to a light force posture solves – leads to tribal engagement and regionalism**
**Castonguay 10**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (David Castonguay studied philosophy, … ) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 15.0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, there is the experience … </span>__<span style="color: black;">the U.S. military itself can tolerate. </span>__</span>
<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Afghanistan is the limitus test of American military doctrines - the shift to counterterrorism leads to a change in the entirety of US foreign policy </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Gventer, 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">- Senior Defense Analyst at the RAND Corporation and a former deputy assistant secretary of defense. She served two tours in Iraq, including a year as a senior adviser to General Peter Chiarelli, the operational commander in Iraq in 2006 (Celeste, “False Promise of 'Counterinsurgency'”, 12/1,[[http://www.rand.org/commentary/2009/12/01/NYT.html]])</span> </span>
<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">“</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Co</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">unter</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">in</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">surgency," as described by … </span>__<span style="color: black;">capable of applying overwhelming force. </span>__</span>
**<span style="color: black;">Obama will sell the plan as a drawdown to a lighter but permanent commitment to Afghanistan – this resolves confusion over the withdrawal deadline and reinforces public support </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Stewart, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “</span><span class="sifr-alternate"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, </span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3) </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">But this moderate tone gains … a much greater focus on Kashmir</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.1</span>

==<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">ASU 1AC</span>== 

===**Plans read:**=== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence to levels consistent with a counter terrorism strategy in the geographical area enclosed by Iran, Pakistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and China. We’ll clarify. (If you're one of the people who likes going for Khorason (Looking at you, Notre Dame).</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> he United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence to levels consistent with a counter terrorism strategy in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. </span>


**Contention 1:No disads**
**Perception links are non-unique, but the war will rage on indefinitely**
**<span style="color: black;">Sachs 10 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Staff Writer for the Boston Globe, <span style="letter-spacing: -0.45pt;">NATO's 2014 Afghanistan departure date laden with ambiguity,</span></span> <span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/natos-2014-afghanistan-departure-date-laden-with-ambiguity/article1807792/]]</span>**)**

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">NATO chief </span><span style="color: black;">Anders Fogh <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Rasmussen</span></span>__ __<span style="color: black;">… and political <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">violence throughout Afghanistan.”</span> </span>__


**Advantage one is leadership**

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Large footprint strategies kill public support— </span>**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A. The Long War</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kitfield 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(James, National Journal, "Afghanistan is Obama's war now," October 16, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/1009/101609nj1.htm]]</span>)</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">As the administration reconsiders its … difficult nation building by civilians.</span>__ </span>

**B. <span class="Underline">population protection causes massive casualties </span>**
<span class="Underline">**Zambernardi 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span></span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal;">Lorenzo Zambernardi</span>// <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">is a lecturer at the University of Bologna-Forli` and doctoral candidate in the political science department at the Ohio State, Counterinsurgencies impossible trilemma, pg 27-28) </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The document also states that ‘‘</span>… <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">for their own troops increases.</span> </span>

**Casualties in Afghanistan are uniquely key to public support—prefer empirics and multinational studies**
**Meulen 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Profesor. Dr. Jan. Van. Meulen, professor of the University of Ireland, Sr. Fellow at Brown University, lecturer at the University of Columbia, [[http://www.openthesis.org/documents/Public-Opinion-War-Casualties-Hypothesis-600812.html]], <span style="color: #224455;">Public Opinion, War, and the Casualties Hypothesis: Transatlantic Differences) </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 11.25pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 7.5pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">It </span>____is obvious__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> from figure 4 </span>__…__ <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">line with Gartner and Segura (1998). </span></span>
**Brink is now—public support is plummeting fast**
**TF 1/6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The Financial, it’s a newspaper, “</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Voters Continue To Fret Over War in Afghanistan,” </span>[[http://finchannel.com/news_flash/World/78575_Voters_Continue_To_Fret_Over_War_in_Afghanistan/|__http://finchannel.com/news_flash/World/78575_Voters_Continue_To_Fret_Over_War_in_Afghanistan/__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, AM) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even as President Obama insists …</span> __ranged from 31% to 42%.__

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Domestic support is critical forward-deployed forces—lack of support means we can’t sustain it </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: #1f1f1f;">Biddle 10 </span>**<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen Biddle, staff writer for foreign policy and co-writer for the Brookings Institute, War by Other Means, Foreign Policy, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/09/27/war_by_other_means]]) </span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="color: #1f1f1f;">Waging <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">war requires resources</span> </span>__<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">…</span>__<span style="color: #1f1f1f;">commander in chief indeed. </span>__</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Status quo also causes overstretch </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Kretkowski, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html]]<span style="color: black;">) </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Over the winter break …</span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;"> (China, a reinvigorated Russia</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">). </span>

**And, overstretch is inevitable absent a transition. Forces withdrawn from Iraq are being redeployed to Afghanistan and Obama is actively supporting a global COIN doctrine-**
**<span style="color: black;">Klare, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> - Five Colleges professor of Peace and World Security Studies, whose department is located at Hampshire College, defense correspondent of The Nation magazine, and author of Resource Wars and Blood and Oil: The Dangers and Consequences of America's Growing Petroleum Dependency (Michael, “'Two, Three, Many Afghanistans'”, 4/8, The Nation, http://www.thenation.com/issue/april-26-2010) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now we have President Obama and his domineering Defense Secretary, Robert Gates, both of whom have criticized the Pentagon's emphasis on conventional combat at the expense of low-intensity warfare…</span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;"> anti-Americanism and violence</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="color: #333333;">Hegemony via strategic reserves is key to international stability: Loss of heg leads to conflicts across the globe </span>**
**Brookes 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow for National Security Affairs at The Heritage Foundation. He is also a member of the congressional U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Peter, Heritage, Why the World Still Needs America's Military Might, November 24, 2008)</span>

__<span style="color: #333333;">Let's conjure up…</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">agrees require action. </span>


**Advantage 2 is the war**

**COIN means we inevitably lose—**

**First, COIN fails in the North, unstable e****<span style="color: #1f1f1f;">conomic Infusion, ANA failure, massive corruption, and nation building at the cost of stability means the Taliban can recruit faster than we can kill—prefer metric results over military propaganda </span>**
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Dorronsoro 10 (</span>**<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Gilles Dorronsoro, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Gilles Dorronsoro, a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. His research focuses on security and political development in Afghanistan, particularly the role of the International Security Assistance Force, the necessary steps for a viable government in Kabul, and the conditions necessary for withdrawal scenarios.</span><span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Think Again: The Afghanistan Surge, October 7, 2011, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/07/think_again_the_afghan_surge?page=0,1]]) </span></span>

__<span style="color: #1f1f1f;">It's now a nine-year war …</span>__<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 8pt;">talking with the Taliban. </span>

**Second, troop requirements, population protection, and local politics mean we can’t win**
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Dorronsoro 10 (</span>**<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Gilles Dorronsoro, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Gilles Dorronsoro, a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. His research focuses on security and political development in Afghanistan, particularly the role of the International Security Assistance Force, the necessary steps for a viable government in Kabul, and the conditions necessary for withdrawal scenarios. </span><span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">September 23, 2010,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Afghanization, http://nationalinterest.org/article/afghanization)</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt; vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">From all I saw in …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> being asked to do. </span>__</span>
**Afghanistan Instability Spills over into Pakistan**
**Akhtar 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**//<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Shameem Akhtar </span>//**<span class="authorprofile">//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">is a professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university</span>//**//<span style="color: black;">.</span>//**</span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,”</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout|http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#]]</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">1)</span>
<span class="bodycontent">__<span style="color: black;">If <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">it is a war</span> against …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> thus destabilizing the state.</span></span>__</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Pakistan Collapse on the brink now – PPP Coalition Collapse </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Abbot 11 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(January 4, 2011, Pakistan coalition collapse threatens stability, SebAstIan Abbot, staff writer for the New York Times and the San Francisco Chronical, </span>__<span style="color: #003399;">http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2011/01/03/MNJO1H3G5R.DTL#ixzz1A6ougKvA</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">The collapse of Pakistan's </span>____<span style="color: black;">… attack foreign troops in Afghanistan. </span>__

**<span style="color: black;">Multiple Impacts— </span>**

**<span style="color: black;">1. Pakistan Instability causes India to preemptively launch nukes at Pakistan—none of their take outs assume recent tensions </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Steve 10 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Steve Coll, </span>//<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; padding: 0in;">Steve Coll is the president of the New America Foundation and a staff writer at The</span>// //<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; padding: 0in;">New Yorker, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/11/16/what_if_we_fail_in_afghanistan) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">//<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Increased Islamist Violence </span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">…</span>//__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> for the constitution.</span>__ </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Extinction </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Chopra ‘8</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Parveen, staff writer, Thaindian News,"India-Pakistan nuclear war would spell global calamity: study", April 2008, "</span><span style="color: black;">[[http://www.thaindian.com/newsportal/uncategorized/india-pakistan-nuclear-war-would-spell-global-calamity-study_10035636.html|__http://www.thaindian.com/newsportal/uncategorized/india-pakistan-nuclear-war-would-spell-global-calamity-study_10035636.html__]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>



<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">New York, April 8 (IANS) </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #333333;">A brief nuclear war …polluting the food chain.</span>__

**2. Pakistan Instability leads to nuclear terrorism and causes extinction**
**Pitt** **9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,”[[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]]) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The situation in brief: </span>__<span style="color: black;">…</span>____<span style="color: black;"> Pakistani nuclear infrastructure. </span>__
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">No takeouts—now is uniquely dangerous for the threat of nuclear terrorism </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Guardian 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Wikileaks Cables highlight Pakistani nuclear threat, Guardian 2010.) Cable= Of </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">T</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">he leaked US cables </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">…</span>____for a long-term policy.__ </span>

**Contention 3 is solvency-**

**Afghanistan is the limitus test of American military doctrines - the shift to counterterrorism leads to a change in the entirety of US foreign policy**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Gventer, 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">- Senior Defense Analyst at the RAND Corporation and a former deputy assistant secretary of defense. She served two tours in Iraq, including a year as a senior adviser to General Peter Chiarelli, the operational commander in Iraq in 2006 (Celeste, “False Promise of 'Counterinsurgency'”, 12/1,[[http://www.rand.org/commentary/2009/12/01/NYT.html]])</span>
<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">“</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Co</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">unter</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">in</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">surgency," as described by …applying overwhelming force.</span> </span>
**Strategic reserves independently solve hegemony**
**<span style="color: black;">Brookes 08</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">– Senior Fellow for National Security Affairs at The Heritage Foundation. He is also a member of the congressional U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Peter, Heritage, Why the World Still Needs America's Military Might, November 24, 2008, AS)</span>

__Of course, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">there </span>…you'll miss it when it's gone.__

<span class="Underline">**Indicts misrepresent the plan—wins the war and the shores up public support** </span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Brooks 09 -</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(October, Webster, “Obama Can Win Afghanistan With Soft Partition & the “Reverse McCrystal Strategy”, Brooks Foreign policy review, [[http://brooksreview.wordpress.com/2009/10/18/obama-can-win-afghanistan-with-soft-partition-the-%E2%80%9Creverse-mccrystal-strategy%E2%80%9D/]])</span>

<span style="line-height: 15.0pt; margin-bottom: 12.0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Reverse McCrystal …</span>__far less formidable adversary.__</span>


==__Golden Desert 1AC__== 

**Contention 1: The status quo**

**Afghanistan is still a lost cause with no end in sight**
**<span style="color: black;">Sachs 10 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Staff Writer for the Boston Globe, <span style="letter-spacing: -0.45pt;">NATO's 2014 Afghanistan departure date laden with ambiguity,</span> http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/natos-2014-afghanistan-departure-date-laden-with-ambiguity/article1807792/</span>**)**

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">NATO chief </span><span style="color: black;">Anders Fogh <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Rasmussen</span></span>__ __<span style="color: black;">… and political <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">violence throughout Afghanistan.”</span> </span>__

**<span style="color: black;">If anything, the war is getting worse—positive projections ignore critical losses elsewhere and the military is lying to us </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Cohen 12/29</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael Cohen, Senior Fellow … the war in Afghanistan seriously</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Therefore, Abhi and I propose the following plan:** **<span style="color: black;">The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence to levels consistent with a counter terrorism strategy in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.</span>**

**Advantage one is leadership**

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Large footprint strategies kill public support— </span>**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A. The Long War</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kitfield 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(James, National Journal, "Afghanistan is Obama's war now," October 16,</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/1009/101609nj1.htm</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">) </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">As the administration reconsiders its … difficult nation building by civilians.</span>__ </span>

<span class="Underline">**Population protection causes massive casualties** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Zambernardi 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span></span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal;">Lorenzo Zambernardi</span>// <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">is a lecturer at the University of Bologna-Forli` and doctoral candidate in the political science department at the Ohio State, Counterinsurgencies impossible trilemma, pg 27-28) </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The document also states that ‘‘</span>… <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">for their own troops increases.</span> </span>

**Casualties in Afghanistan are uniquely key to public support—prefer empirics and multinational studies**
**Meulen 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Profesor. Dr. Jan. Van. Meulen, professor of the University of Ireland, Sr. Fellow at Brown University, lecturer at the University of Columbia, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.openthesis.org/documents/Public-Opinion-War-Casualties-Hypothesis-600812.html</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, <span style="color: #224455;">Public Opinion, War, and the Casualties Hypothesis: Transatlantic Differences) </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 11.25pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 7.5pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">It </span>____is obvious__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> from figure 4 </span>__…__ <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">line with Gartner and Segura (1998). </span></span>
**Brink is now—public support is plummeting fast, regardless of actual outcomes**
**TF 1/6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The Financial, it’s a newspaper, “</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Voters Continue To Fret Over War in Afghanistan,” http://finchannel.com/news_flash/World/78575_Voters_Continue_To_Fret_Over_War_in_Afghanistan/</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, AM) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even as President Obama insists … </span>__rating has ranged from 31% to 42%.__

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Domestic support is critical forward-deployed forces—lack of support means we can’t sustain it </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: #1f1f1f;">Biddle 10 </span>**<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen Biddle, staff writer for foreign policy and co-writer for the Brookings Institute, War by Other Means, Foreign Policy, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/09/27/war_by_other_means</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="color: #1f1f1f;">Waging <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">war requires resources</span> </span>__<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">-- money, … </span>__<span style="color: #1f1f1f;">poor commander in chief indeed. </span>__</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Status quo also causes overstretch </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Kretkowski, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Over the winter break I had … </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">). </span>

**And, overstretch is inevitable absent a transition away from COIN**
**<span style="color: black;">Klare, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> - Five Colleges professor of Peace and World Security Studies, whose department is located at Hampshire College, defense correspondent of The Nation magazine, and author of Resource Wars and Blood and Oil: The Dangers and Consequences of America's Growing Petroleum Dependency (Michael, “'Two, Three, Many Afghanistans'”, 4/8, The Nation, http://www.thenation.com/issue/april-26-2010) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now we have President Obama … </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">increased anti-Americanism and violence</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="color: #333333;">Hegemony via strategic reserves is key to international stability—loss of it triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear war </span>**
**Brookes 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow for National Security Affairs at The Heritage Foundation. He is also a member of the congressional U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Peter, Heritage, Why the World Still Needs America's Military Might, November 24, 2008)</span>

__<span style="color: #333333;">Let's conjure up for a moment … </span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">that everyone agrees require action. </span>

**Advantage 2 is the war**

**We’ll lose—**

**First, COIN can’t win in the North, unstable e****<span style="color: #1f1f1f;">conomic Infusion, ANA failure, massive corruption, and nation building at the cost of stability means the Taliban can recruit faster than we can kill—prefer metric results over military propaganda </span>**
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Dorronsoro 10 (</span>**<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Gilles Dorronsoro, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Gilles Dorronsoro, a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. His research focuses on security and political development in Afghanistan, particularly the role of the International Security Assistance Force, the necessary steps for a viable government in Kabul, and the conditions necessary for withdrawal scenarios.</span><span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Think Again: The Afghanistan Surge, October 7, 2011, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/07/think_again_the_afghan_surge?page=0,1</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">) </span></span>

__<span style="color: #1f1f1f;">It's now a nine-year war -- not nine one-year wars. There is no reset button in Afghanistan, and the coalition lost its political capital with the Afghans long ago. With conditions deteriorating on the ground and the Taliban gaining strength across the country<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, **coalition forces will be in an even worse position next year than they are now**. The situation around the major cities of </span></span>__
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">costs aside, </span>__<span style="color: black;">it is important … </span>__<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 8pt;">start talking with the Taliban. </span>

**Afghanistan Instability Spills over into Pakistan**
**Akhtar 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**//<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Shameem Akhtar </span>//**<span class="authorprofile">//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">is a professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university</span>//**//<span style="color: black;">.</span>//**</span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,”http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">1)</span>
<span class="bodycontent">__<span style="color: black;">If <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">it is a war</span> against … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">moment, thus destabilizing the state.</span></span>__</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Pakistan Collapse on the brink now – PPP Coalition Collapse </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Abbot 11 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(January 4, 2011, Pakistan coalition collapse … </span>__<span style="color: #003399;">/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2011/01/03/MNJO1H3G5R.DTL#ixzz1A6ougKvA</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">The collapse of Pakistan's ruling … </span>____<span style="color: black;">attack foreign troops in Afghanistan. </span>__

**<span style="color: black;">Multiple Impacts— </span>**

**1. Russia**

**Pakistan collapse spills over into the rest of Central Asia**
**Morgan 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive committee, [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]) </span>

It took the Soviets __10 years …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan! </span>

**<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; padding: 0in;">Brink is now- Russia is expanding into central asia </span>**
**Zeihan 6/15**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, PhD in Asian … </span>__into a sort of silent acquiescence__

**Instability results in escalation**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Blank 2k</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen, Prof. Research at Strategic Studies Inst. @ US Army War College, “U.S. Military Engagement with Transcaucasia and Central Asia”, www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub113.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Washington’s burgeoning military-political-economic … a strong and lasting regional commitment. </span>

**Causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephen J. </span>**Blank**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago, March </span>**2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. “<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">RUSSIA AND ARMS CONTROL: ARE THERE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?” </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Proliferators or nuclear states like … </span>__neighbors or their own people__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.172 </span>

**<span style="color: black;">2. India— </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Pakistan Instability causes India to preemptively launch nukes at Pakistan—none of their take outs assume recent tensions </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Steve 10 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Steve Coll, </span>//<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; padding: 0in;">Steve Coll is the president of the New America Foundation and a staff writer at The</span>// //<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: #1f1f1f; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; padding: 0in;">New Yorker, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/11/16/what_if_we_fail_in_afghanistan) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">//<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Increased Islamist Violence Against India, … </span>//__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">politics and for the constitution.</span>__ </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Extinction </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Chopra ‘8</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Parveen, staff writer, Thaindian News,"India-Pakistan nuclear war would spell global calamity: study", April 2008, "http://www.thaindian.com/newsportal/uncategorized/india-pakistan-nuclear-war-would-spell-global-calamity-study_10035636.html)</span>



<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">New York, April 8 (IANS) </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #333333;">A brief … , thus polluting the food chain.</span>__

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">No takeouts—now is uniquely dangerous for the threat of nuclear terrorism </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Guardian 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Wikileaks Cables highlight Pakistani nuclear threat, Guardian 2010.) Cable= Of </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">T</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">he leaked US cables on … </span>____basis for a long-term policy.__ </span>

**Contention 3 is solvency-**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Indicts misrepresent the plan—it’s enough to provide intelligence, support of locals and assure tribal support that will sustain stability </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Long, 10 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Austin, assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs. “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan,” Orbis, Spring 2010, Science Direct) ASingh </span>

<span class="Underline">This insoluble problem is why … than any other counterterrorism deployment. </span>

**Afghanistan is the limitus test of American military doctrines - the shift to counterterrorism leads to a change in the entirety of US foreign policy**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Gventer, 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">- Senior Defense Analyst at the RAND Corporation and a former deputy assistant secretary of defense. She served two tours in Iraq, including a year as a senior adviser to General Peter Chiarelli, the operational commander in Iraq in 2006 (Celeste, “False Promise of 'Counterinsurgency'”, 12/1,http://www.rand.org/commentary/2009/12/01/NYT.html)</span>
<span style="line-height: 12.0pt; margin-bottom: 10.5pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">“</span>__Co__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">unter</span>__<span style="color: black;">in</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">surgency," as described by … capable of applying overwhelming force.</span> </span>

=Negative= 

==T-USFG== 

Interpretation and violation- The USFG isn’t an agent
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rotunda 1</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (18 Const. Commentary 319, “THE COMMERCE CLAUSE, THE POLITCAL QUESTION DOCTRINE, AND MORRISON,” lexis) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="UnderliningChar">The Framers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of … Houses of </span><span class="UnderliningChar">Congress</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. n12 </span></span>

AND- That’s a voting issue- 

1. Key issue of policy implementation
HEMINWAY 2005 <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Professor of Law @ Middle Tennessee 2005 ( Joan10 Fordham J. Corp. & Fin. L. 225) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many legal </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">…</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> of the rule.</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy1.lib.asu.edu/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1275625725771&returnToKey=20_T9481117547&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.815279.9296702057#n3|n3]] </span></span>

**<span style="color: black;">Ground- they kill it</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">NYTU, 7</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Patricia Smith, The New York Times Upfront, Going to war: who decides? The debate between President Bush and Congress over the conduct of the Iraq war is the latest in a long line of disputes over war powers, April 2)</span>


__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The question of who </span>… in Southeast Asia.__
==T-Presence== 

**A. Interpretation - Presence requires regular, non-combat activities – forces engaged in combat or one-time noncombat missions aren’t part of U.S. presence**
**Thomason, 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE? </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our working definition of US overseas…</span> __should call for them__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**B. Violation – [INSERT LINK]**

**C. Voting issue -**

**__1. limits –__ allowing combat missions allows affs to change specific strategies in Afghanistan or Iraq, like ending cluster bombing without actually reducing forces themselves, it explodes the literature base**

**__2. negative ground –__ presence missions are about deterrence and reassurance – including combat missions avoids core negative disads**

===Korea Link=== 

**<span style="color: black;">Korean troops are devoted to __possible combat__ </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">O’Hanlon, 8</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a senior advisor to the Center for a New American Security, Unfinished Business: U.S. Overseas Military Presence in the 21st Century, June,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/reports/2008/06_military_ohanlon/06_military_ohanlon.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, the United States … a few key players. </span>


===COIN link=== 

**COIN troops are combat troops**
**Schreer and Noetzel 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Benjamin and Timo, analysts at the German Institute for International and Security Affairs in Berlin, “Counter-what? Germany and Counter-Insurgency in Afghanistan,” in Royal United Services Institute Journal, Feb, Vol. 153, No. 1, RUSI)</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The third and probably …</span>__actions against insurgents.__

===2NC Limits Outweigh everything=== 

**Limits outweigh**
**Rowland, 84**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert C., Debate Coach – Baylor University, “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective, Ed. Parson, p. 59-60)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first major problem…</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">cancel their programs.</span>__

==T- Substantial== 

**A. Interpretation Presence is the totality of military activities in each country.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Barry M. </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blechman et al</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, President of DFI International, Spring, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Strategic Review, p.14 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given its multifaceted nature, …</span><span class="underline0">and sustainment capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." </span>

**Military legislation defines substantial reductions as 50%.**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (102 H. R. 4421, Text of the full bill, introduced by Olympia Snowe, Lexis Congressional) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION…to another installation. </span>

**B. Violation – The plan is a minor reduction of presence [INSERT LINK]**

**C. Voting issue –**

**__1. Predictable limits –__ allowing minor reductions allows countless variations of small affs like reducing a single type of intelligence gathering or arms sales to Japan; it makes adequate research impossible**

**__2. ground –__ topic disads won’t link to minor modifications, and generic ground is vitally important to protect since there are 6 different countries with diverse literature bases**


===Link- Afghanistan=== 

**Current force deployments in Afghanistan number at 94,000**
**Telegraph ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“US troops in Afghanistan surpass number in Iraq,” [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/afghanistan/7762893/US-troops-in-Afghanistan-surpass-number-in-Iraq.html]] 24 Mat 2010) </span>

__Troops are … with 92,000 in Iraq.__

===Link- Iraq=== 

**The US deploys 50,000 troops in the Republic in Iraq**
**AP 9/15** (“<span style="color: black;">Firefight involving US-Iraq forces leaves 6 dead”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Persistent attacks against …</span>__Americans were hurt.__

==T-ROK== 

**Interpretation and violation:** **<span style="color: black;">The plan text uses the term “Republic of Korea” but the resolution says “South Korea”—the administrative area referenced by the plan is larger than the geographical area included in the resolution. </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">MULLIN 2009</span>** <span class="underline0"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, Refugee Relief Tribunal, UN High Commissioner on Refugees, Case Reference 0905614, Oct 19,[[http://www.unhcr.org/refworld/pdfid/4b1cef832.pdf]])</span></span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The information also …in South Korea.</span></span>


**Voting Issue-**

**__B. Education—__we should reject geographical inaccuracy**
**JAMES ‘67**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Preston E., Honorary President of the Association of American Geographers, “On the Origin and Persistence of Error in Geography,” Annals of the Association of American Geographers, March)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ABSTRACT. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Human error</span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the future. </span>


==Kap K== 

**They’re capitalist, dawg.**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zavarzadeh 94,</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Dept English @ Syracuse, 1994 (Mas’ud, “The Stupidity that Consumption is Just as Productive as Production”, The Alternative Orange, V 4, Fall/Winter. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="underline0">task</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of this … tropological description.(6) </span>

**They ignore the root cause**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">BROWN 93</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Wendy, professor of legal studies and women's studies at the University of California, Santa Cruz, “Wounded Attachments”, Political Theory, Aug. p. 392-394] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although this detente …</span><span class="BoldUnderlining"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">explicitly politicized marking.</span></span>


[[#_Toc250720469]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Simon </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Butler in 9,</span></span> <span class="CitesChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">journalist, chair of the Sydney Climate Emergency Rally, report on Bolivian President Evo Morales special press conference in New York, “To save planet, end capitalism, Morales says”, 2009, http://www.greenleft.org.au/2009/794/40905</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Morales said the …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> the capitalist system.</span>__

**Alternative: reject the aff in order to reject capitalism.**
**this interpretive approach enables dialectic – we can preserve the best components of their advocacy while rejecting the parts that undermine resistance JAMESON 81**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">( THE POLITICAL UNCONSCIOUS, Fredric Jameson (born 14 April 1934) is an American literary critic and Marxist political theorist. He is best known for the analysis of contemporary cultural trends—he once described postmodernism as the spatialization of culture under the pressure of organized capitalism. Jameson's best-known books include Postmodernism: The Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism, The Political Unconscious, and Marxism and Form.Jameson is currently William A. Lane Professor in The Program in Literature and Romance Studies at Duke University.)</span>
<span class="BoldUnderlining"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Always historicize</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">!</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This …</span><span class="BoldUnderlining"> and preserving them</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

==Security K== 


<span style="margin: 0px;">**You securitize**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;">**__Dean__** prof soc @ Macquarie U Australia **__2k1__** (Mitchell, States of Imagination eds Thomas Hansen and Finn Stepputat. Pp 41-64)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;">Sovereignty and Biopolitics in Nonliberal Rule </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px;"> There are, of course, plenty of examples of the exercise of sovereignty in the twentieth century that have practiced a decidedly nonliberal form and program of national government both in relation to their own populations and those of other states…… This includes, in one of Hitler’s last acts, the order to destroy the bases of bare life for the German people itself. “Final Solution for other races, the absolute suicide of the German race” is inscribed, according to Foucault, in the functioning of the modern state (232).</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;">**The affirmative participates in a system of mapping the globe into zones of violence and difference – the world does not exist for us to discover – it exists only after we draw the lines to make it exist as such. Their framing of the world into distinct zones of violence makes it so**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;">**__Shapiro__** prof pol sci @ U of Hawai’i **__2k7__** (Michael, “The New Violent Cartography” Security Dialogue 2007; 38; 291</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The two primary conceptions driving my analysis require elaboration before I treat that Ford rendering. …… </span>that identify the domestic spaces of bodies judged to be dangerous because they are associated with foreign antagonists. Necessarily, then, my analysis is deployed on both the distant and the home fronts in the ‘war on terror’. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px;">**The alternative is to embrace subjective agonism as the dominant frameing of genealogical analysis, This allows us to unmask violent power relations and creates space for resistance**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;">**__Shinko__** Visiting Assistant Professor of International Relations at Bucknell University **__2k8__** (Rosemary, “Agonistic Peace: A Postmodern Reading” 2008; 36; 473 Millennium - Journal of International Studies)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Foucault</span> agonism refers to a political relationship which opens up a site from within which relations of power can be resisted and altered…… and peace serves as its accomplice, war’s silent, calm and imperturbable façade.79 But agonism, armed with its own cache of battle-worn metaphors of combat and struggle, positions itself at the war/peace nexus.</span>


==Russia DA== 

**2010 is the key year for Russia to expand its sphere of influence and consolidate power over the region – pulling out allows the US to contain Russian expansion**
**Steff 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">— Intern, Centre for Strategic Studies. Dissertation on ballistic missiles and deterrence. MA, IR (Reuben, The Russian Resurgence, America and the Great Crisis of 2010, 7 January 2010, http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1001/S00022.htm,) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Well </span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2010 will be a</span>…<span style="font-size: 8pt;">US remains impossible. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**US/Russian relations are at a turning point – US encroachment on Russia’s sphere of influence kills cooperation** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Eyal 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jonathan, U.S., Russia truly committed to improving their relations, 26 June 2010, http://www.chinapost.com.tw/commentary/the-china-post/special-to-the-china-post/2010/06/26/262241/US-Russia.htm,)</span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the meeting between</span>…<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is 15 times larger. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**Extinction** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Cohen 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, The New American Cold War, 10 July 2006, http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/Russia/New_Cold_War_Russia.html,) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">As long as catastrophic…<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "a new Vietnam." </span></span>

===2NC Biznezz=== 

**Relations solve every impact**
**Collins & Rojansky, 8/18**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – * U.S. Ambassador to the Russian Federation from 1997 to 2001, AND deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment (8/18/10, James F. Collins, Matthew Rojansky, Foreign Policy, “Why Russia Matters,” </span>[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41409|__http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41409__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

__A year and a…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">be even better.</span>

**Extinction**
**Cummins and Allen 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association - Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association (Ronnie and Will, Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century, 14 February 2010, </span>[[http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6|__http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

__The hour is late.__ __…<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">war, and starvation.</span>__

<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">**2NC Exit Module**</span>

**US-Russian relations are critical to resupply missions and being able to leave Afghanistan- we’re a pre-req to the aff**
**Collins 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—member of the former National Epigraphic Society. B.S. in Public and Personnel Management, U Minnesota (Steve, Russia Drawing Usa Deeper into an Afghan Trap, 8 February 2009, </span>[[http://stevenmcollins.com/WordPress/?p=432|__http://stevenmcollins.com/WordPress/?p=432__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

__This posting is a…US strategic objective.__

=Generic Counterplans= 

==Korea conditions== 

**<span style="color: black;">Counter-plan Text: </span>****T****he United States federal government should [Plan] If South Korea complies with the United Nations' Trafficking in Persons Report of 2009.**

**The United Nations' Trafficking in Persons Report of 2009 includes the following:**
**<span style="color: black;">UNHCR, 9.</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">United Nations Refugy Agency,</span> //<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">Trafficking in Persons Report 2009.</span>// <span style="color: #147dba; font-size: 9pt;">[[@http://seoul.usembassy.gov/sr_061609a.html]]</span>

__Recommendations for the …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">among migrant workers.</span>__



**South Korea will say yes- anti-American sentiment means that they want the US to withdraw troops.**
**Printz and Doran 6** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Scott A., Lieutenant Colonel, and George Doran, Project Adviser, USAWC Strategy Research Project, “A U.S Military Presence in a Post-Unified Korea: Is it Required?”,</span> [[@http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448748&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf|__http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448748&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf__]]<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A second factor that …capabilities of allies </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">42 </span>

==“C” PIC== 

**<span style="color: black;">The Aff used the word “Korea” with a “K”—this is racist and erases the colonial history of Corea—replacing the term solves – even if they change the plan text it doesn’t matter all of their evidence says Korea, their own authors and they participate in this discourse. </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">GOLDSEA 2003</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Asian American daily magazine, “KOREA OR COREA?” [[http://www.goldsea.com/Air/Issues/Corea/corea.html]])</span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Japan's annexation of Corea</span>____<span style="color: black;">…</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> change it back?</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Language is critical—colonialist language shapes our thinking and traps us in a cycle of violence</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">SHAHADAH 2005</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Owen ‘Alik, Filmmaker and Writer, “Linguistics for a New African Reality,” December,[[http://www.africanholocaust.net/news_ah/language%20new%20reality.htm]])</span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Words play a critical…of those systems.</span>__


**Colonialism should be rejected**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nermeen </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shaikh</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, @ Asia Source </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘7,</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [//Development// 50, “Interrogating Charity and the Benevolence of Empire,” palgrave-journals] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It would probably … (Anidjar, 2003, 2007). </span>

==1NC Consult NRC== 

**Text: The United States federal government should propose that it [Plan] to the Russian Federation for binding consultation. The United States should support the proposal during consultation and abide by the result of consultation. We’ll clarify**

<span style="tab-stops: -35.0pt;">**Consultation is key to successful revamp of NATO-Russia Council** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: -35.0pt;">**Butcher 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Martin, independent international security analyst; June 28, 2009; NATO Monitor http://natomonitor.blogspot.com/2009/06/nato-russia-council-back-in-action.html) </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The NATO-Russia Council…</span> __for future cooperation.__

**Relations solves the AIDS epidemic and saves millions of lives**
**VERSHBOW 2004** (ALEXANDER, US AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA, STATE DEPARTMENT APRIL 22)

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Without intervention,… all of humanity</span>.__
=Octos against Notre Dame GM= 

==1NC T- Substantially== 

Additional cards- 1NC shell above

**There are six: 5-9 person human terrain teams in Afghanistan and 21 teams in Iraq that’s 200+ people out of all the hundreds of thousands of troops in both countries**
**Kipp 10** (The Human Terrain, PHD at North Point Academy, second corporal in Afghanistan, Military Review) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The idea behind human terrain teams, or HTTs, is to put a small army of civilian social scientists (ideally anthropologists) and intel-savvy military officers into the field to give brigade commanders a better understanding of local dynamics. The teams are charged with “mapping” social structures, linkages, and priorities, just as a recon team might map physical terrain. By talking to locals the teams might help identify which village elder the commander should deal with or which tribe might be a waste of time; which valley should get a roads project and whether a new road might create a dispute between villages. It’s all part of General David Petraeus’s doctrine of a smarter, management-style counterinsurgency. </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">There are now six five-to-nine-person human terrain teams in Afghanistan and 21 teams in Iraq. If the concept proves successful.</span>__**
**The US deploys 50,000 troops in the Republic in Iraq**
**AP 9/15** (“<span style="color: black;">Firefight involving US-Iraq forces leaves 6 dead”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Persistent attacks against the Sons of Iraq and efforts by al-Qaida to lure the militia members back into the insurgency by paying them has raised questions about whether the group will remain a strong force against militants. The militia members have also been angered by what they describe as neglect by the Shiite government. The incident in Fallujah follows a battle in Diyala province in which U.S. troops helped Iraqi security forces battle suspected al-Qaida militants for two days. U.S. drones, attack aircraft, artillery fire and ground forces took part in what appeared to be the most extensive fighting since the U.S. ended combat operations in Iraq. American forces also took part in a brief firefight against militants attacking a Baghdad military headquarters early this month, and two U.S. soldiers died after being shot by a Kurdish member of the Iraqi army while they visited an Iraqi military facility. All those incidents happened after the official end to U.S. combat operations declared by Obama during an Oval Office address Aug. 31. The focus of U.S. forces turned to training, although they can still take part in military operations against insurgents — if the Iraqis ask for their help. U.S. officials have shied away from describing the mission in Iraq as being over or accomplished, words that got Obama's predecessor, President George W. Bush, into trouble in 2003. Military officials have been clear about the ongoing risks to U.S. forces. </span>__But the deadline to end combat operations, announced by Obama shortly after taking office in 2009, was seen as the fulfillment of a campaign promise to end what has been a deeply unpopular war in the U.S. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The 50,000 Americans are also permitted to defend themselves and their bases,</span> and they still frequently come under attack by insurgent groups with mortars, rockets and roadside bombs. In the southern city of Basra, a roadside bomb exploded near an American military vehicle, according to police in Iraq's second-largest city. The U.S. military said no Americans were hurt.__

**Current force deployments in Afghanistan number at 94,000**
**Telegraph ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“US troops in Afghanistan surpass number in Iraq,” [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/afghanistan/7762893/US-troops-in-Afghanistan-surpass-number-in-Iraq.html]] 24 Mat 2010) </span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Troops are continuing to flood into Afghanistan as part of</span> Barack <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Obama's surge</span>, while the United States is rapidly withdrawing from Iraq. The <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">most recent Pentagon figures show 94,000 US personnel</span> are now <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">in Afghanistan</span> compared with 92,000 in Iraq.__

**Human Terrain Teams are a tiny amount of military presence—the budget is $143 million a year**
**Caryl 09,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christian—Senior fellow @ the Center for International Studies at MIT, contributing editor and staff writer @ both Foreign Policy and Newsweek, editor of The New York Review, [9-8-09, Foreign Policy, “Human Terrain Teams” [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/09/08/reality_check_human_terrain_teams?page=0,1|http://www.for eignpolicy.com/articles/2009/09/08/reality_check_human_terrain_teams?page=0,1]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Still, the program has been growing rapidly. The original idea of hiring area specialists hasn't taken off, so the Army has recruited other experts -- even psychologists (as noted in a recent [[@http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/story/2009/08/28/ST2009082802422.html?sid=ST2009082802422|//Washington Post//]][[@http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/story/2009/08/28/ST2009082802422.html?sid=ST2009082802422| article]]). And the money is flowing. </span>__Just two years ago its backers [of the HTT program] were thrilled to receive $40 million; by now <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the program's annual budget has hit $143 million</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, with two-dozen five-to-nine-member teams in the field (18 in Iraq and 6 in Afghanistan), as well as a "reachback center" (a sort of on-call reference library) in Fort Leavenworth, Kan. Many commanders swear by the program; the [[@http://humanterrainsystem.army.mil/impacts.html|HTS Web site]] is well stocked with testimonials. Montgomery McFate, an anthropologist who was instrumental in the founding of the Army program, says that Human Terrain Teams in Iraq can be credited with everything from helping to protect archaeological sites to advising negotiations that led a Mahdi Army commander to stop fighting coalition forces. And there's no question that troops on the ground urgently need as much cultural information as they can get.</span>


**They aren’t even a drop in the bucket we spend $5.5 billion a __month__ for Afghanistan alone**
**Congressional Research Service 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[/16/2010, Belasco, Amy-Specialist in U.S. Defense Policy and Budget, Congressional Research Service, “</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">The Cost of Iraq, Afghanistan, and Other Global War on Terror Operations Since 9/11” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RL33110.pdf]]] Note: this is the MOST qualified definition, say that your statistics are literally from the federal government budget report As of April, 2010, more than halfway through FY2010, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">monthly spending</span>, or obligations for contracts and military__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and civilian</span> __pay, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">averaged</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> $10.9 billion, including $5.4 billion for Iraq and </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">$5.5 billion for Afghanistan</span>.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> While this year’s average to date is 11% below last year’s $12.3 billion average, average spending may grow as troop levels rise to 98,000 in Afghanistan and fall to 50,000 in Iraq because higher costs in Afghanistan may more than offset decreases in Iraq. Congress is currently considering the FY2010 Supplemental request for an additional $36.6 billion for DOD and the State Department, largely to cover the cost of deploying 30,000 additional troops to Afghanistan that President Obama announced on December 1, 2009. Most recently, the House adopted an amended version on June 30th and the Senate passed its version on May 27th, 2010. Instead of a formal conference, the Senate is expected to revise the House version and send it back to the House, in a “ping pong” process, sometime in July. If the pending FY2010 supplemental request is enacted, </span>__cumulative war costs__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">would </span>__total__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> $1.1 trillion including $751 billion for Iraq, </span>__$336 billion for Afghanistan__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and $29 billion for enhanced security. By FY2010, Afghanistan would account for about two-thirds of the cost and Iraq one-third, a reversal of the previous year. </span>

==K- See Kap K above== 


==1NC DA== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Human Terrain Teams are key to COIN in Afghanistan – Their author</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt;"> **<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Denselow 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">- James, writer for The Guardian; “Scholar Soldiers in Afghanistan on Dangerous Terrain” June 11, 2010; Lexis ACM</span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt;"><span style="color: black;">This week also …</span>__<span style="background: aqua; color: black;">gathered and understood".</span>__ </span>
**Ending counterinsurgency leads to Taliban takeover, risking Afghan and Pakistan Collapse, prolif, and nuclear war**
**Kagan and Kagan, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - * <span class="Underline">former prof of military history @ West Point</span> AND **//military historian// (Fredrick W., Kimberly, //“//<span class="detailtitle">Don't Go Wobbly on Afghanistan”, 10/12/2009, <span style="color: black;">http://www.aei.org/article/101110</span>) </span>**</span>

**<span style="margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">__It is very likely … use of nuclear weapons.__ </span>**

And, that occurs in 24 hours 
Bergen,9 **//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-</span>// //Senior Fellow and the co-director of the Counterterrorism and Counterinsurgency Initiative at the New America Foundation (8/1/09, Peter, “Two Arguments for What to Do in Afghanistan,”// <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2009/two_arguments_for_what_to_do_in_afghanistan_13510</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In August, President …</span>__are still so weak.__**


==1NC CP== 



Text: The United State federal government should withdraw its contractual outsourcing of private military corporations in the Islamic republic of Afghanistan as well as remove its HTT’s in Iraq. 

We control a better Internal link to ethics - Blackwater has been charged with more public ethics violations than HTT’s – any DA to withdrawal is a reason why the CP solves better 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Marlowe, 10 (Lara, Writer for the Irish Times, Notorious Blackwater Firm Awarded Lucrative Afghanistan Contract,” June 26th 2010) , <span style="color: black;">http://www.irishtimes.com/newspaper/world/2010/0626/1224273362918.html</span> </span></span>


**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IN THE week when …trapped the Obama White House. </span>**


==1NC Security Good== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">B - Instrumental knowledge production doesn’t cause violence and discursive criticism could never solve it anyway</span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hirschkop 7</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Ken Hirschkop, Professor of English and Rhetoric at the University of Waterloo, July 25, 2007, “On Being Difficult,” Electronic Book Review, online: </span>[[http://www.electronicbookreview.com/thread/criticalecologies/transitive]]**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This defect - not … are several good reasons. </span>**

**Threats aren’t arbitrary. can’t throw out security or wish away threatening postures—we have to develop strategies for coping with threat perceptions.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Olav. F. </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Knudsen</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Prof @ Södertörn Univ College, </span>**__<span style="text-underline: thick;">‘</span>__**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [//Security Dialogue// 32.3, “Post-Copenhagen Security Studies: Desecuritizing Securitization,” p. 360] </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> During the Cold War…</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">dealing with them</span>__**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">. </span>__**

**Ending our own securitization doesn’t affect other countries- they’ll just see it as a weakness and an opportunity to attack.**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Montgomery</span></span>, Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Politics at the University of Virginia,<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> 6 </span></span>[Evan Branden, Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Politics at the University of Virginia, “Breaking out of the Security Dilema: Realism, Reassurance, and the Problem of Uncertainty,” International Security, 151-2)**

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Defensive realism's main…<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">of benign motives</span>. </span></span></span>**

=Sems against CPS PT= 

**T-presence**
**Security**
**Russia SOI DA**
**Training CP**
**Case**

==1NC CP== 

The United States federal government should embrace the expansion of Afghan security forces as outlined in General Stanley McChrystal’s 2009 Initial Assesment on Initial United States Forces – Afghanistan (Initial Assesment). The United States federal government should utilize the increase in United States counterinsurgency presence that has been ordered by President Obama to achieve the expansion and training of Afghan security forces as called for in the Initial Assesment. The United States federal government should abide by President Obama’s directive to begin drawing dawn United States military presence in Afghanistan and completely transition to a counterterrorism presence by December 2012. The United States federal government should provide all necessary assets to allow the Kabul Bank to operate.

The counterplan competes – The plan substantially reduces the counterinsurgency presence, we use all of those same troops to train the Afghan security forces. 

We solve all of the AFF – We end up with the same counterterrorism posture the plan does BUT we don’t get there until we train the Afghan security forces – The way the transition occurs and its timing is CRITICAL. The plan collapses Afghan stability flipping the case and undermines our ability to execute a counterterrorism strategy flipping their solvency. 
Long, **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor at Columbia University’s School of International & Public Affairs,</span>** 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan,” Orbis, Volume 54, Issue 2) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is a high-end estimate …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, and defeating al Qaeda.</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #000066;">37</span>__**

===2NC Overview=== 

And, Using the troops surge already underway is critical to training the Afghan security forces and the only way to create Afghan stability.
Caldwell**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Lieutenant General, Commander of NATO Training Mission – Afghanistan & CG of Combined Security Transition Command – Afghanistan, </span>**7-27**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-10 (William, “Building the Foundation for Afghan Security,” [[@http://www.d/|http://www.d]] </span>**

**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">There is</span> much <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">… of this nation.</span>__**

==1NC Case== 

Pakistan not COIN is the root of Afghan instability and Pakistan has an incentive to keep it that way 
One India 10 **(“Pak terror sanctuaries single greatest source of Afghan instability: Eikenberry,” January 27, 2010)**

**__Stressing on an …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> fleeting, Eikenberry added. </span>**


And Pakistan instability now due to flooding—there needs to be CT in Afghanistan not Pakistan 
Sydney Morning Herald 10-2 **(Pakistan's instability puts army, US on edge”)**

**__Political <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">upheaval in </span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not true partners.''</span>**


==**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ASU Neg stuff</span>**== 

==**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SKFTA Good</span>**== 

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1NC</span>=== 


The South Korean free trade agreement is on top of the docket—Republicans and Obama agree 
NPR 12/10 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(National Public Radio, South Korea Free Trade Deal Could Be Boon For GM </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.npr.org/2010/12/10/131968047/south-korea-free-trade-deal-could-be-boon-for-gm, AM) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recent polls have…</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">new Congress.</span>__

And, Obama has shored up a substantial amount of political capital—legislative victories in the lame duck 
Politics Daily 12-23 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alex Wagner, White House Correspondent, “Keeping Calm and Carrying On: Obama's Focused Style Brought Wins in the End,” December 23, 2010) </span>**


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In his first two years in office…</span>__some real leadership__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Capital key to SKFTA</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Green 11/1</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael Green, Senior Advisor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “[Viewpoint] Echoes of the past haunt G-20,” Korea JoongAng Daily, 11-1-2010, http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=2927756, AM)</span>**



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Obama is instinctively a </span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">s committed to this goal.</span>**</span>

SKFTA’s key to the economy 
Gerwin 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Edward, JD from Georgetown, //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-style: normal;">Senior Fellow for Trade and Global Economic Policy at </span>//</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-weight: normal;">Third Way, “</span>**Guest Contribution: 5 Reasons America Needs Korea Free Trade Deal,” Wall Street Journal, December 16, 2010)**


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Based on the …</span>__sales of $215 million.__**</span>

Nuclear war 
Kerpen 08**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> (Phil, policy director for Americans for Prosperity, “From Panic to Depression”)</span>**

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">It’s important that we avoid</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all …</span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> even greater scale.</span>__</span>**</span>

==<span style="font-size: 18px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 27px;">Tea ROK</span>== 
===**1NC**=== 


Interpretation and violation: <span style="color: black;">The plan text uses the term “Republic of Korea” but the resolution says “South Korea”—the administrative area referenced by the plan is larger than the geographical area included in the resolution. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">MULLIN 2009</span> **<span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, Refugee Relief Tribunal, UN High Commissioner on Refugees, Case Reference 0905614, Oct 19,[[http://www.unhcr.org/refworld/pdfid/4b1cef832.pdf]])</span></span>**

**<span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The information also … citizenship in South Korea.</span></span>**


Voting Issue- 

__B. Education—__we should reject geographical inaccuracy 
JAMES ‘67**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Preston E., Honorary President of the Association of American Geographers, “On the Origin and Persistence of Error in Geography,” Annals of the Association of American Geographers, March)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ABSTRACT. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Human error </span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> progress of geography in the future. </span>**




==**FOUCAULT**== 

===**1NC**=== 


The affirmative is war by other means <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">—troops may not be present, but they continue military operations through subversive power relationships</span>
Foucault ’76 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(was a French philosopher,sociologist, and historian. He held a chair at the prestigious Collège de France with the title "History of Systems of Thought," and also taught at the University at Buffalo and the University of California, Berkeley, “5: Two Lectures,” “Power/ Knowledge: Selected Interviews and Other Writings, ed. Colin Gordon, professor of history at U. of Iowa, AM) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Then again, there is … as continual war. </span>**

The affirmative’s delineation between legitimate and illegitimate expression of human life is the life blood of the modern biopolitical—their crusader logic can only end in genocide 
Dillon and Reid ‘9 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, professor of Politics at the University of Lancaster, and Julian, Lecturer in International Relations at Kings College and Professor of International Relations at the University of Lapland, “The Liberal Way of War: Killing to Make Life Live, pg 30-33, AM) </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">One way of expressing the core …</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> securitization and fear. </span>__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The strategies of biopower make necessary and possible the worst violence in history—the terminal impact is extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bernauer ’92 </span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(James, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Philosophy at Boston College, Critical Essays on Michel Foucault, ed. Racvskis, pg 190-193, AM) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The title of this paper alludes…</span><span class="Underline">“new forms of subjectivity.” </span>**

Vote negative to endorse our specific intellectual criticism of the 1AC—this makes possible the unearthing and challenging of the seemingly neutral power-knowledge relationships which are complicit in perpetuating the very harms they seek to end. 
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jenny </span>**Edkins**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales at Aberystwyth, December 20</span>**06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “The Local, the Global and the Troubling,” Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy, Vol. 9 No. 4, pg. 499-511 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rather than starting … of particular instances.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hilarious Golden Desert Neg Arguments</span>== 

===PRT pic=== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: The United States federal government should immediately reduce its non-provincial reconstruction team military and non-provincial reconstruction team police presence in the Republic of Iraq.</span>**

**__<span style="color: black;">First, Counterplan solves the case</span>__****<span style="color: black;">—… Provincial Reconstruction Teams throughout Iraq </span>**

**Second, PRTs are the __core__ … aff would definitely remove them**
**US Embassy-Iraq, no date** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The US embassy in Iraq, as the name suggests, “About PRTs” [[http://iraq-prt.usembassy.gov/about-us.html]], AM) </span>

**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The mission of the</span> Provincial …__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">promote stability and community development. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Third, PRTs are good— </span>**

**<span style="color: black;">critical to check public health crises </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Miller ‘8 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Martin, staff writer for Hutchinson News, “</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="color: black;">[[http://www.hutchnews.com/Lettersfromiraq/cholera|Kirkuk PRT partners with Iraqi authorities to fight cholera]]</span>,” [[http://www.hutchnews.com/Lettersfromiraq/cholera]], AM) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Forward Operating Base Warrior, Kirkuk … to improve our (medical) programs.” </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Those are really bad in Iraq—dehumanizes the population </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Chelala ‘7 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Cesar, writer for the Guardian, UK newspaper, “</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">Iraq in the time of cholera,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2007/nov/13/iraqinthetimeofcholera]], AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is the kind of … and over 2,000 have been murdered. </span>

**Dehumanization makes nuclear war, genocide and environmental destruction inevitable—outweighs all other impacts**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Berube 97 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(David</span></span>**,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> prof of speech communication, June/July </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">1997</span></span>**,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nanotechnology Magazine, [[http://www.cla.sc.edu/ENGL/faculty/berube/prolong.htm]], AM) </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assuming we are able to … </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">is evil's most powerful weapon</span>.</span> </span>


===Word PICs (TROLOLOLOLOL)=== 

**The affirmative is another saga in the sad history of doublespeak—their reliance on the euphemism of _ to replace actively promotes this rhetorical model. This invocation to hide the unpleasantness of hides the ugliness truth of the people they are affecting in order to ensure smooth passage of their policy.**
<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Fischer ‘7 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Prof of Law at Louisville 68 Mont. L. Rev. 129, zanezor)</span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Orwell objected to political speech … </span>**,"** often <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">to defend "the indefensible</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." </span>[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=70ec43b5a95fb8dbe9d5103edda45fe7&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAl&_md5=1ea678e2e4a0d49869ad299654f91963&focBudTerms=&focBudSel=all#n177|**177**]]

**We must resist this doublespeak—failure to do so renders the destruction of human governance inevitable—language based in circumlocution loses ability to impose restraint. Empirically, this justifies the worst human atrocities.**
<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Southerland ‘5 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Assistant Professor of Law at FSU, 18 St. Thomas L. Rev. 53, 2005, zanezor)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The malaise, unfortunately, has spread … </span>__name such things are done?__

**Voting negative creates a rupture in our acceptance of euphemisms. Our refusal to accept the logic of euphemism provides the basis for a reformation of the language we use**
<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Southerland ‘5 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Assistant Professor of Law at FSU, 2005 18 St. Thomas L. Rev. 53, zanezor) </span>
__Perhaps it is too late.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>**__exclusive concern__** __of **professional writers**.__ [[#r43]][[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=70ec43b5a95fb8dbe9d5103edda45fe7&docnum=5&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAl&_md5=1ea678e2e4a0d49869ad299654f91963&focBudTerms=&focBudSel=all#n43|**43**]]

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Links</span>==== 
======Presence====== 
Military Presence” is a euphemism that sanitizes language surrounding military operations to __manufacture consent__ for continued military operations Patru 
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">200</span>**2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jackie, Editor for sweetliberty.org, “US undergoes rapid military expansion”<span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.sweetliberty.org/issues/war/wantwar/military_expansion.htm]]</span>, Swolff) This article appeared in USA TODAY on January 15, 2002. </span>**

**__...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a division of Gannett Co. Inc. </span>**


======<span style="font-size: 8pt;">DOD</span>====== 

**<span style="color: black;">Using the term the Department of Defense pre-justifies every action it takes as good</span>****<span style="color: black;"> and is euphemistic </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Herman, 2005</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Edward June 2, professor of economics at University of Pennsylvania, “From Ingsoc And Newspeak To Amcap, Amerigood, And Marketspeak” On Nineteen Eighty-Four: Orwell and Our Future 112, 123, [[http://www.zmag.org/znet/viewArticle/6139]], AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Although </span>__1984 was a Cold War …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">like that budget sharply cut. [4]</span>

===<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">MATERIALISM--REDUX</span>=== 

**The discursive quest proposed by the aff does nothing more than obscure the logic of capital – it prioritizes identity and representation to class and reifies the dominant structure of social classes. Their individual pedagogical strategy delinks individuals from underlying modes of production and pushes them toward flashy postmodern inquiries** 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zavarzadeh 94 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mas’ud, Dept English @ Syracuse, 1994 “The Stupidity that Consumption is Just as Productive as Production”, The Alternative Orange, V 4, Fall/Winter. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="underline0">task</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of this text </span><span class="underline0">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">philosophical argument but a tropological description.(6) </span>

**Their exclusion of structural historicism is not a fluke – they rely on identity politics to ignore class and capitalist exploitation. They particularize oppressions so that the root system remains unscathed.** 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 93</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Wendy, professor of legal studies and women's studies at the University of California, Santa Cruz, “Wounded Attachments”, Political Theory, Aug. p. 392-394, zanezor) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although this detente between universal … </span><span class="BoldUnderlining"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">to the explicitly politicized marking.</span></span>

**Capitalism causes extreme poverty, nuclear war, social exclusion, and environmental destruction that will end in our extinction.** 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown in 5</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Charles [Professor of Economics and Research Scientist at the University of Michigan] May 13th 20</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal;">05</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(http://archives.econ.utah.edu/archives/pen-l/2005w15/msg00062.htm) </span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The capitalist class owns the … </span>fact of life in the U.S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Our alternative is to vote negative to reject post-modern complicity with capital. This interpretive approach enables dialectic – we can preserve the best components of their advocacy while rejecting the parts that undermine resistance** 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">JAMESON 81</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">( THE POLITICAL UNCONSCIOUS, Fredric Jameson (born 14 April 1934) is an American literary critic and Marxist political theorist. He is best known for the analysis of contemporary cultural trends—he once described postmodernism as the spatialization of culture under the pressure of organized capitalism. Jameson's best-known books include Postmodernism: The Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism, The Political Unconscious, and Marxism and Form.Jameson is currently William A. Lane Professor in The Program in Literature and Romance Studies at Duke University.) </span>
<span class="BoldUnderlining"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Always historicize</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">!</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This slogan—the </span><span class="underline0">… </span><span class="BoldUnderlining"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">once canceling and preserving them</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===SKFTA- GD edition=== 

SKFTA passes—area for Republicans and Obama to work together
Yonhap 1/31 (Yonhap News, 1/31. “Obama likely to submit korea fta to congress in march”, by Hwang Doo-Hyong, http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2011/01/31/13/0301000000AEN20110131000100315F.HTML)

Obama likely to submit Korea … $10.6 billion in 2009, down $2.8 billion from 2008. 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This cooperation requires capital </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Green 11/1</span>** <span class="apple-style-span">(Michael Green, Senior Advisor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “[Viewpoint] Echoes of the past haunt G-20,” Korea JoongAng Daily, 11-1-2010, http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=2927756, AM)</span>

<span class="apple-style-span"> </span>
<span class="apple-style-span">__Obama is instinctively a free-trader__ … is committed to this goal.</span>  

And, Obama has political capital now
Politics Daily 12-23 (Alex Wagner, White House Correspondent, “Keeping Calm and Carrying On: Obama's Focused Style Brought Wins in the End,” December 23, 2010)

In his first two years … __has showed some real leadership__."

[Insert link]

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">SKFTA key to global trade liberalization</span>**<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cooper and Manyin ‘7</span>** <span class="apple-style-span">(William and Mark, Specialists in International Trade and Finance and Asian Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Congressional Research Service, “The Proposed South Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA),”http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33435.pdf, AM)</span>

<span class="apple-style-span"> </span>
<span class="apple-style-span">__Some experts have suggested…__little in commercial benefits.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extinction</span>**<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Panzner ‘9</span>** <span class="apple-style-span">(Michael Panzner, Prof. at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, 2009, p. 136-138, AM)</span>

Continuing calls for curbs on … __a new world war__.