[[toc]]
I have decided that since disclosure is a product of the 'national circuit' I will only disclose cases after running them at tournaments with bids. If I decide at some point in the future that there is some reason to disclose after 'regional' tournaments I will begin to disclose everything.
=September/October= 
== == 
==Affirmative== 
===Terrorism=== 
Yale(w/ out Phillips): 1, 3, 6, Octa 
Bronx: 1,3,5

<span style="font-family: Times;">I affirm. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">I do not need to provide a method for disarmament for two reasons.</span>
1) Reciprocal Burdens
2) Textual Primay
Prefer topical affs.

V: Morality

S: Maximizing the protection of the right to life
1) State obligation
2) Ignore theories that don’t respect life
3) Need order


<span style="font-family: Times;">Part 1: The Threat </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">The threat of nuclear terrorism is real. Years ago, A.Q. Khan, a Pakistani nuclear engineer sold nuclear materials to many states that are deemed to be threatening or associated with terrorism. Dubno writes </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Dubno, Dan. “A.Q. Khan and the Oath Not Taken.” The Huffington Post. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dan-dubno/aq-khan-and-the-oath-not_b_166901.htmlFebruary 16, 2009 </span><span class="sep"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">|</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> 01:32 PM (EST) </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Yet, for most… </span>**__<span style="font-family: Times;">Libya, and Iran.</span>__**


<span style="font-family: Times;">Although he didn’t sell the materials directly to terrorist groups, the countries that he did sell these materials to are considered extremely dangerous by most of the international community. North Korea for example, after having recently gained nuclear weapons has threatened to use them against South Korea and the United States. </span>


<span style="font-family: Times;">And, a nuclear terrorist attack would be devastating. It could potentially escalate to the level of nuclear war. Spiece warns </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0.1pt 0in;">Spiece, Patrick Jr. Negligence and nuclear nonproliferation: eliminating the current liability barrier to bilateral U.S.-Russian nonproliferation assistance programs. William and Mary Law Review. [[http://www.accessmylibrary.com/article-1G1-144666195/negligence-and-nuclear-nonproliferation.html]]. February 1, 2006. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">The potential consequences… </span>**__<span style="font-family: Times;"> of nuclear weapons.</span>__** <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">(53)</span>
And
<span style="font-weight: normal;">nuclear war would create a dust-induced winter that causes extinction of the human species. Phillips writes </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Phillips, PhD, Physics, Cambridge, 2000 (Alan, , Nuclear Winter Revisited, Oct, www.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">peace.ca/nuclearwinterrevisited.htm)</span>

<span class="StylecardArialNarrow9ptChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Altogether, </span></span><span class="StyleunderlineArialNarrow9pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">nuclear winter </span></span>...<span class="StyleunderlineArialNarrow9ptBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">not include us</span></span><span class="StylecardArialNarrow9ptChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">And nuclear deterrence does not work on terrorists. Green writes </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Green, Robert. Spent 1978-80 in the Ministry of Defence in Whitehall as Personal Staff Officer to Assistant Chief of Naval Staff (Policy), who was responsible for recommending the replacement for Polaris. He is now working full-time to promote non-nuclear defence and security policies. “Why Nuclear Deterrence is a Dangerous Illusion” [[http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/1998/06/00_green_deter-illusion.htm]] June 1998 </span>

<span class="subhead1"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">*What If Terrorists… </span></span>**__<span style="font-family: Times;">in such a crisis.</span>__**


<span style="font-family: Times;">Part 2: Access: Terrorists have many ways of accessing nuclear weapons. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">First: Cyber terrorists could provoke attacks through false alerts. Johnson explains</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Bobbie Johnson, Technology correspondent for the Guardian. [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/|guardian.co.uk]], Friday 24 July 2009 13.01 BST Terrorists could use internet to launch nuclear attack: report [[http://www.cicte.oas.org/rev/EN/.../CICTE%20News%207-2009-III.pdf|www.cicte.oas.org/rev/EN/.../CICTE%20News%207-2009-III.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">While the possibility… </span>**__<span style="font-family: Times;">a nuclear response.</span>__**


<span style="font-family: Times;">Second: Insiders can assist terrorists in creating or purchasing nuclear weapons. Allison explains, </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Allison, Graham. “Nuclear Terrorism: The Ultimate Preventable Catastrophe.” 2005http://books.google.com/books?id=s9qoSQx-UuoC&dq=graham+allison+nuclear+terrorism+the+ultimate+preventable+threat&printsec=frontcover&source=bn&hl=en&ei=04-VTOqqIMKC8gal6vHQBw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CCwQ6AEwAw#v=onepage&q&f=false pg. 85 </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">The potential sources… </span>**__<span style="font-family: Times;">surely have not. </span>__**


<span style="font-family: Times;">Third: Terrorists can steal nukes from unsecured nuclear arsenals. In fact, there have already been cases of nuclear materials disappearing. Bunn and Weir write </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Matthew Bunn and Anthony Wier “Terrorist Nuclear Weapon Construction: How Difficult?” Source: Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 607, Confronting the Specter of Nuclear Terrorism (Sep., 2006), pp. 133-149 Published by: Sage Publications, Inc. in association with the American Academy of Political and Social Science Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/25097844 Accessed: 17/08/2010 10:18 </span>

**__Terrorists might attempt… not been detected.__**



<span style="font-family: Times;">And safeguards on nukes are not enough. Even if terrorists are unable to denoate a bomb that they steal, they can remove the fissile material from the bomb and make a crude weapon. Ruff explains </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Tillman, Ruff. Nuclear Terrorism. </span>[[http://www.nci.org/nci-nt.htm|www.nci.org/nci-nt.htm]] <span style="font-family: Times;">November 2006 </span>

**__<span style="font-family: Times;">Many modern nuclear… or dirty bomb.</span>__**



<span style="font-family: Times;">Part 3: Demystifying the bomb. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Non-state actors such as terrorists try to get nukes because they are seen as powerful tools. Jenkins writes </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Author(s): Bonnie Jenkins Combating Nuclear Terrorism: Addressing Nonstate Actor Motivations Source: Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 607, Confronting the Specter of Nuclear Terrorism (Sep., 2006), pp. 33-42 Published by: Sage Publications, Inc. in association with the American Academy of Political and Social Science Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/25097835 Accessed: 17/08/2010 06:31 </span>

**__<span style="font-family: Times;">An important aspect… </span>__**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">to undermine this sentiment.</span>


<span style="font-family: Times;">And the best way to reduce the appeal of nuclear weapons is in fact to just get rid of them. This serves a double purpose of making nukes look less desirable, and making it difficult for terrorists to acquire such weapons. Jenkins furthers </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Bonnie Jenkins Combating Nuclear Terrorism: Addressing Nonstate Actor Motivations Source: Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 607, Confronting the Specter of Nuclear Terrorism (Sep., 2006), pp. 33-42 Published by: Sage Publications, Inc. in association with the American Academy of Political and Social Science Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/25097835 Accessed: 17/08/2010 06:31 </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">States that possess… states and nonstate actors. </span>


<span style="font-family: Times;">Underview: Spiece + Phillips = independent reason to affirm </span>


<span style="font-family: Times;">Moreover, there is always a chance of nuclear accidents. This independently proves that nukes are bad because accidents can render entire areas uninhabitable. </span>Ali writes,
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ali, Saleem. Teaches environmental planning and conflict resolution at the University of Vermont. “The Environmental Impacts of a Nuclear Explosion” [[http://www.chowk.com/articles/4436]] 12/2/1998</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>**__most__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> insidious… high explosive detonations".</span>


<span style="font-family: Times;">Because nuclear terrorism and accidents are a huge threat to life, I affirm. </span>


==Negative== 
===Self-Defense=== 
Yale: 2, 4, Runoff, Double
Bronx: 7
I negate.

V: Morality

The right to self-defense is necessary to ensure protection of the right to life. Thus if we recognize life as an absolute right, we must also take self-defense to be an absolute right. Wallerstein explains.

Wallerstein, Schlomitt. “JUSTIFYING THE RIGHT TO SELF-DEFENSE: A THEORY OF FORCED CONSEQUENCES.” Virginia Law Review. 5/18/2005 www.virginialawreview.org/content/pdfs/91/999.pdf

**__Starting from the…__** defending one’s autonomy.

S: Maximizing the right to self defense

I contend that nuclear weapons help nations defend themselves by helping them in conflicts. Beardsley explains

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kyle Beardsley, Professor of Political Science, Emory; and Victor Asal, Professor of Political Science, SUNY Albany; “Winning with the Bomb”; Journal of Conflict Resolution 52; Jan. 2009; Pages 296-297. JMN </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Since 9 August… Fuhrmann (this issue). </span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Thus because nuclear weapons help nations in conflicts, I negate. </span>

== == 
===Self-Defense/ Deterrence=== 
Yale: 5
Bronx: 2, 4
Same as Self Defense then...
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">Nuclear weapons also deter conflicts. O’Neill explains </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">O’Neill, Andrew. “Nuclear Proliferation and Global Security: Laying the Groundwork for a New Policy Agenda” Flinders 2005 </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">More striking is… **__be circumvented altogether.__** </span>


===NSA CP=== 
Yale: Runoff
A) Text: Nuclear weapons states should grant negative security assurances in the form of a legally binding treaty to non-nuclear weapons states. The assurances will protect all non-nuclear weapons states from nuclear attack. Spector and Ohlde define the current status of negative security assurances.



<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">Spector, Leonard and Ohlde, Aubrie. <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Negative Security Assurances: Revisiting the Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Option. Arms Control Association. April 2005 http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2005_04/Spector_Ohlde</span></span>
**__In the context… free-standing treaty.__**

The CP extends the coverage of negative security assurances to all nations with nuclear weapons agreeing not to use nuclear weapons against non-nuclear nations. My opponent may try to claim that this is theoretically illegitimate but,

1) Reciprocal fiat

2) Real World

B) Competitiveness: The negative world still has nuclear weapons.

C) Net Benefits: The CP is net beneficial through the NC. I solve for the AC’s impacts while still garnering my impacts. *Explain how I solve*

===Terror Talk K=== 
Bronx: 6
A:Framework: I accept the affirmative's standard

The rhetoric of terrorism is counterproductive - its discursive purpose is to justify open ended violence against the world. Noorani writes
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yaseen Nooranni, AP, Near Eastern Studies @ University of Arizona; "The Rhetoric of Security"; The New Centennial Review; 2005; Project Muse </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">It is important to__**...**__ </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;"> **__of hegemonic actions.__** </span>

B: Link: 1) The discourse on terrorism blurs political groups into a monolithic, fictionalized group - it creates connections between previously disparate groups and establishes a state of exception. Aretxaga explains
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Begona Aretxaga; Professor @ University of Texas; "Terror as Thrill: First thoughts on the war on terrorism"; Anthropological Quaterly; 2002 Project Muse </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">At the level of </span>__**...**__ <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **__and economic production.__** </span>
2) The aff constructs the threat of nuclear terrorism.

C: Implications: These state of exceptions created by rhetoric on terrorism justifies the foundation of endless wars. Aretxaga 2 writes
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Begona Aretxaga; Professor @ University of Texas; "Terror as Thrill: First thoughts on the war on terrorism"; Anthropological Quaterly; 2002 Project Muse </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">The question is whether</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">__**...**__ **__areas of the world.__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">D: Alternative: Reject the aff.</span>