[[toc]]
Email me @ risaenz(at)gmail(dot)com
=Affirmative= 
==UGA Afghanistan Aff==
===1AC Arms Race===
**Status Quo is a proxy war between regional powers** 
Pant, Visiting Scholar (Winter 2010) Center for the Advanced Study of India University of Pennsylvania Lecturer, Department of Defence Studies King’s College London, 2010 [ Harsh V. , “INDIA’S CHALLENGE IN AFGHANISTAN: WITH POWER COMES RESPONSIBILITY” http://casi.ssc.upenn.edu/system/files/India%27s+Challenge+in+Afghanistan+-+Harsh+V.+Pant+%28CASI+Working+Paper%29.pdf] 1
Pakistan remains concerned about deepening India-Iran 
AND 
in order to secure its larger strategic interests.

**This leads to Indo-China competition and escalation through war by proxies.** 
Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security.  and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf p. 14] 11
As President Obama weighs his choices in the 
AND 
to the Afghans by the end of 2014.

**Continued Indo-China competition sparks arms race increasing chance of war** 
Sullivan and Maza 2010 [ Tim and Michael, “The Next Nuclear Arms Race” September 27 2010, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703384204575509163717438530.html] 6
India and Pakistan are the two countries most 
AND 
—that creates the conditions for heightened insecurity.

**Plan key to stop destabilization  of the region and stop a large scale proxy war. Spills over – extremist recruitment.**
Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security.  and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf p. 9 – 10] 10
The United States has many other interests in 
AND 
. choices in Afghanistan should not be underestimated
.
**Central Asian instability risks global nuclear conflict involving the U.S. and Russia**
Blank, 1 - professor of research at the Strategic Studies Institute of the US Army War College,  (Stephen, Central Asian Security: The New International Context, ed: Allison, p. 142-144) OLD

The regional structure of political forces hardly engenders 
AND 
to resist them by balancing competing rivals.66 

===1AC Pakistan=== 
**Large footprint mobilizes the Taliban – that causes Pakistan collapse**
Shameem Akhtar 10, professor of international relations & former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university, 1/26/10, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#**1
If it is a war against extremists and 
AND 
at any moment, thus destabilizing the state.

**Multiple Impacts** 
**FIRST - It’s an existential risk – takeover leaves the US with no options** 
Riedel 2011 [Bruce, “Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America, and the Future of Global Jihad” Kindle Edition Location 1508] 
A jihadist Pakistan would be the most serious 
AND 
every reason to try, given the alternatives.

**SECOND – Attack on India causes Armageddon** 
Riedel 2011 [Bruce, “Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America, and the Future of Global Jihad” Kindle Edition Location 1576] 
The dire possibilities outlined in this chapter are 
AND 
on India is going to lead to Armageddon.

**THIRD - Leads to Indian retaliation and escalation** 
Riedel 2011 [Bruce, “Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America, and the Future of Global Jihad” Kindle Edition Location 1491] 
A jihadist Pakistan would be particularly bad news 
AND 
New Delhi may need to make some response.

**Extinction** 
Fai, Executive Director of the Kashmiri American Council, 01
(Dr. Ghulam Nabi, Executive Director of the Washington-based Kashmiri American Council, “India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir,” 7/8, Washington Times, 
http://www.pakistanlink.com/Letters/2001/July/13/05.html)
The foreign policy of the United States in 
AND 
Fissile Material/Cut-off Convention.
	
**FOURTH – Israel** 
**Leads to nuclear attack on Israel** 
Riedel 2011 [Bruce, “Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America, and the Future of Global Jihad” Kindle Edition Location 1497] 
The impact on Israel would also be huge
AND 
say, Pakistan could also provide the bomb.

**Escalates** 
John Steinbach, March 2002. Nuclear specialist at the Center for Research on Globalization. “Israeli Weapons of Mass Destruction: a Threat to Peace,” http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2002/03/00_steinbach_israeli-wmd.htm.
Meanwhile, the existence of an arsenal of 
AND 
Middle East conflict could trigger a world conflagration." 

**FIFTH –Best case scenario is nuclear testing – that escalates** 
Riedel 2011 [Bruce, “Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America, and the Future of Global Jihad” Kindle Edition Location 1560] 
Should other attacks like Mumbai or the one 
AND 
. However, India's patience is not eternal. 

**Plan Solves - Small footprint leads to regional security agreements** 
Amritage and Berger 11/12 2010 [Richard L and Samuel R. “U.S. Strategy for Pakistan and Afghanistan” PDF p.56-8] 3
As this assessment unfolds, the Obama administration 
AND 
Pakistan-based terrorist networks, like LeT.

**Change leads to agreement over Kashmir** 
Riedel 2011 [Bruce, “Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America, and the Future of Global Jihad” Kindle Edition Location 1884] 
There is a way to resolve the Kashmir 
AND 
the political clout to secure a peace breakthrough. 

**Keeps Pakistan under civilian control**
Riedel 2011 [Bruce, “Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America, and the Future of Global Jihad” Kindle Edition Location 1910] 
Resolution of the Kashmiri issue would go a 
AND 
idea America needs to promote in south Asia. 

**Plan creates the necessary condition** 
(Regional Influence, Political Pressure, NATO alliance, War Fatigue, Pakistan Dependence) 
Robert D. Blackwill Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow for U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. He served as U.S. Ambassador to India in 2001-3 and as Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Planning in 2003-4. , 1/1 2011 [ “Plan B in Afghanistan WHY A DE FACTO PARTITION IS THE LEAST BAD OPTION” Published in Foreign Affairs Kindle Edition] 
WITHDRAW IN ORDER TO STAY After so many 
AND 
administration to concentrate intensively on other important issues.  

===Plan Text=== 
The United States federal government should substantially reduce it military presence in Afghanistan.** 

==Solvency== 
**Losing War Now – small footprint key – 5 Reasons**
(Local History, Statistics, Pakistan, Public Opinion, Karzai) 
Robert D. Blackwill Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow for U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. He served as U.S. Ambassador to India in 2001-3 and as Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Planning in 2003-4. , 1/1 2011 [ “Plan B in Afghanistan WHY A DE FACTO PARTITION IS THE LEAST BAD OPTION” Published in Foreign Affairs Kindle Edition] 
Current U.S. policy toward Afghanistan 
AND 
result that Washington can realistically and responsibly achieve. 

**Aff is the best alternative to the status quo**
Robert D. Blackwill Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow for U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. He served as U.S. Ambassador to India in 2001-3 and as Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Planning in 2003-4. , 1/1 2011 [ “Plan B in Afghanistan WHY A DE FACTO PARTITION IS THE LEAST BAD OPTION” Published in Foreign Affairs Kindle Edition] 
DYING FOR A MISTAKE Whatever their views on 
AND 
But it is better than all the alternatives.

**Plan’s signal is key to reassure allies and protect US interests** 
Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security.  and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf p. 2 - 34-5] 16
Establishing a hard and fast timeline for implementing 
AND 
is the right decision at the right time.

**Small footprint is comparatively the best option** 
Fair 1/11 C. Christine Fair is an assistant professor at Georgetown University and the author of Cuisines of the Axis of Evil and Other Irritating States. (January 11, 2011, C. Christine Fair, “‘Counterterrorism Plus’ Is The Way Forward In Afghanistan”, Foreign Policy, http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/01/11/false_choices_in_afghanistan)
Advocates of the current U.S. 
AND 
records on these same issues are equally repugnant.

==Critical Afghanistan Aff - Emory (With Reuben Lack)== 
[[#_GoBack]]
**Contention 1 – The discourse of the war**
**The War in Afghanistan is constructed on the myth of heroism destroying the humanitarian mission and constructing social binaries**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Crowe ‘7</span>** (Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf)
“When we read the history books 
AND 
, normal and thus are potentially destructive mechanisms.
**This constructs endless war – we will always find an enemy**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Crowe ‘7</span>** (Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf)
Several problematic elements repeatedly appear in Western narratives 
AND 
masquarading as the leitmotiv for universal safety.81
**This discourse spills over – the soldiers are taught to become sociopaths that disregard basic right**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Barry 2011</span>** [ Kathleen, “Unmaking War, Remaking Men: How Empathy Can Reshape Our Politics, Our Soldiers, and Ourselves” Phoenix Rising Press of Santa Rosa, Kindle Edition, Locations 2047-75] 
In war and under occupation, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">resistance is </span>
AND 
frightening mayhem that Iraq became to its people.
**Thus the plan – The United States federal government should withdraw its military presence from Afghanistan.**

**Contention 2 – Afghan Women**

**The mission is framed to save afghan women – this is a false call that uses feminism as a justification for imperialism**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Butler 2008</span>** [Melanie, “CANADIAN WOMEN AND THE (RE)PRODUCTION OF WOMEN IN AFGHANISTAN” August 2008 PDF] 
Given that Afghanistan is one of the most 
AND 
power to name (CW4WAfghan 2008c:1).

**This discourse needs to be separated from imperialist discourse – any combination re-entrenches support for the imperialist mindset**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Butler 2008</span>** [Melanie, “CANADIAN WOMEN AND THE (RE)PRODUCTION OF WOMEN IN AFGHANISTAN” August 2008 PDF] 
As Krista Hunt points out, embedded <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">feminism</span>
AND 
rejuvenating Orientalism as a neo-imperialist discourse.

**US presence is at fault**

**a. History**
Ralph **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Lopez</span>** August 14, **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">2010</span>** – Founder of Jobs for Afghanistan and activist (“The Real Story Behind Time's Afghan Woman Cover: American Complicity”, [[http://www.pdamerica.org/articles/news/2010-08-14-09-52-59-news.php]], Progressive Democrats of America) 
There has been much discussion, as well 
AND 
to give the Russians "their own Vietnam." 

**b. Statistics**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Turse</span>, fellow at Harvard University 9/13 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">2010</span> [Nick, “How Much "Success" Can Afghans Stand?” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/nick-turse/how-much-success-can-afgh_b_714957.html]]] 
In his 2002 State of the Union address
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND </span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and 40 </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">are suffering from “severe depression.</span>

**This violence against women justifies campaigns of international violence**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">MacKinnon</span>, Elizabeth A. Long Professor of Law, U of Michigan Law School, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">2006</span> Catharine A., Harvard International Law Journal, winter page lexis
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Acts of violence against women are mass atrocities</span>
AND 
over, while everyday life never ends.

**Don’t believe their turns – the US role in structural violence is masked by shifting blame – history proves**
Kevin <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Ayotte and</span> Mary <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Hussain ‘5</span> – Assistant Prof. Comm.@ CSU And Lecturer in Comm. (“Securing Afghan Women: Neocolonialism, Epistemic Violence, and the Rhetoric of the Veil”, NWSA, 17(3), Fall, < http://130.102.44.247/login?uri=/journals/nwsa_journal/v017/17.3ayotte.pdf>, Ebsco)
Women in Afghanistan were subjected to structural violence 
AND 
insecurity <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">of structural violence against women</span> in Afghanistan.

**The language surrounding the war frames women as lifeless ghosts killing value to life**
Kevin <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Ayotte and</span> Mary <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Hussain ‘5</span> – Assistant Prof. Comm.@ CSU And Lecturer in Comm. (“Securing Afghan Women: Neocolonialism, Epistemic Violence, and the Rhetoric of the Veil”, NWSA, 17(3), Fall, < http://130.102.44.247/login?uri=/journals/nwsa_journal/v017/17.3ayotte.pdf>, Ebsco)
First, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">many U</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">.S. discourses </span>
AND 
with these representations in the fi rst place.

**Our call to withdraw troops from Afghanistan separates the orientalist mindset from feminism**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Butler 2008</span> [Melanie, “CANADIAN WOMEN AND THE (RE)PRODUCTION OF WOMEN IN AFGHANISTAN” August 2008 PDF] 
In the first component of the program, 
AND 
, empowering some at the expense of others.


**Contention 3 – deconstructing the narrative**

**Challenging justifications for presence in Afghanistan is key – the dogmatic motives for war have silenced public debate over the desirability of war**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Cloud ‘4</span> (Dana L., Associate Prof. And Dir. Graduate Studies – Dept. Comm – UT Austin, Quarterly Journal of Speech, “”To Veil the Threat of Terror”: Afghan Women and the Clash of Civilizations”, 90(3), August, Ebsco)
Scholars should understand the workings of images during 
AND 
of shared humanity, solidarity, and peace. 

**The aff is a pragmatic approach to shifting the military paradigm – this ends the alienation of the other.**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Ivie ‘7</span> (Robert, Prof. Comm. And Culture. – U. Indiana Bloomington, Rhetoric & Public Affairs, “Fighting Terror by Rite of Redemption and Reconciliation”, 10(2), Project Muse)
Most notably, this <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">rhetorical cycling between the </span>
AND 
of adversaries and deifying rituals of redemptive violence.

**Questioning the policy agendas of imperial myths comes first – we need to acknowledge that historical truth is not real**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Crowe ‘7</span> (Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf)
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">We need to navigate </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">critically and </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">cautiously through </span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND </span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">who is benefiting </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and who is being disappeared</span>?

**US presence in Afghanistan is at the root of the war narrative’s construction – mission to save women and dehistoricization**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Crowe ‘7 (</span>Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf)
Old colonial <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">narratives</span> of have <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">re-surfaced </span>
AND 
ties between the Taliban and radical Islamic groups.

**Frame the debate through collective empathy – we must connect with the other to solve – biased media reports don’t meet our framework**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Barry 2011</span> [ Kathleen, “Unmaking War, Remaking Men: How Empathy Can Reshape Our Politics, Our Soldiers, and Ourselves” Phoenix Rising Press of Santa Rosa, Kindle Edition, Locations 1730-47] 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Empathy</span>, whether it is individual or collective
AND 
psychopathic leaders from office and demand diplomatic solutions.


==Afghanistan Aff Blake== 




===<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Inherency </span>=== 
**No endgame has been defined – the plan is key**

Retired Lieutenant General **Barno**, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and **Exum 2010** [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf p. 7-8] 8

The Obama administration has articulated consistently its desired policy... rapidly growing national debt will place greater

===<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Terrorism </span>=== 




**Afghanistan is the key safe haven**

Retired Lieutenant General **Barno**, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and **Exum 2010** [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf p. 9] 9

The United States has many interests in Afghanistan, … struggle remains firmly in the AfghanPakistan border region.⁷



===<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Regionalism Advantage </span>=== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Status Quo is a proxy war between regional powers </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Pant, Visiting Scholar (Winter 2010) Center for the Advanced Study of India University of Pennsylvania Lecturer, Department of Defence Studies King’s College London, 2010 [ Harsh V. , “INDIA’S CHALLENGE IN AFGHANISTAN: WITH POWER COMES RESPONSIBILITY” http://casi.ssc.upenn.edu/system/files/India%27s+Challenge+in+Afghanistan+-+Harsh+V.+Pant+%28CASI+Working+Paper%29.pdf] 1</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Pakistan remains concerned about deepening India-Iran …. in order to secure its larger strategic interests.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">This leads to Indo-China competition and escalation through war by proxies. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf p. 14] 11</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">As President Obama weighs his choices in the coming months, … responsibility in Afghanistan to the Afghans by the end of 2014.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Continued Indo-China competition sparks arms race increasing chance of war </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Sullivan and Maza 2010 [ Tim and Michael, “The Next Nuclear Arms Race” September 27 2010, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703384204575509163717438530.html] 6</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">India and Pakistan are the two countries most likely … creates the conditions for heightened insecurity.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">A Shift to smaller footprint curbs regional competition and lowers Pakistani leverage </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Amritage and Berger 11/12 2010 [Richard L and Samuel R. “U.S. Strategy for Pakistan and Afghanistan” PDF p.56-8] 3</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">As this assessment unfolds, the Obama administration should share with … Pakistan-based terrorist networks, like LeT.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Thats key to US-India Relations </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Win 11/3 2010 [Hanna Ingber, “Obama in India: counterterrorism cooperation” http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/india/101027/president-barack-obama-counter-terrorism-mumbai-attacks] 31</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">And yet, despite the glowing rhetoric, ... there are incident-related times of cooperation. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">India relations key to denuke Iran, secure indian ocean, and stop regional competition. Prioritization key. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Andersen, 2010 [Walter K. “Reviving the Momentum in US Engagement with India : An American Perspective ” India Quarterly: A Journal of International Affairs 2010 66: 13 http://iqq.sagepub.com/content/66/1/13.full.pdf] 43</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The end of the Cold War gave India an opportunity to break out of the narrow … make to US objectives in Asia and the potential threat of China to India.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Plan key to stop destabilization of the region and stop a large scale proxy war. Spills over – extremist recruitment. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf p. 9 – 10] 10</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The United States has many other interests in Afghanistan, Pakistan and the surrounding region. … that would serve as a useful recruiting tool. The second-order effects of the next U.S. choices in Afghanistan should not be underestimated.</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Central Asian instability risks global nuclear conflict involving the U.S. and Russia</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Blank, 1 - professor of research at the Strategic Studies Institute of the US Army War College, (Stephen, Central Asian Security: The New International Context, ed: Allison, p. 142-144) OLD</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The regional structure of political forces hardly engenders optimism … to create spheres of influence but also provides smaller states with the means to resist them by balancing competing rivals.66 </span>


===Plan Text=== 
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The United States federal government should begin a phased transition starting in July of 2011 to no more than 35,000 troops in Afghanistan by 2014.</span>


===<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">SOLVENCY </span>=== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Plan’s signal is key to reassure allies and protect US interests </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf p. 2 - 34-5] 16</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Establishing a hard and fast timeline for implementing a new strategy … the United States is the right decision at the right time.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Plan solves resurgency – US power and planning </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf p. 29] 22</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">As the United States and NATO begin to draw down and consolidate bases a ... will likely impose a dramatic psychological toll on Taliban resilience.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Reform fails – plan is key to transition towards development and undermine the shadow economy. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf p. 15-17] 12</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The unfortunate state of the Afghan central government … entirely – must be seen as even less palatable to the leadership in Kabul.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Timetable key – sole conditions risk infinite presence </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf p. 26] 15</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Does this plan to draw down forces operate on a... should guide future decisions to allocate forces and efforts.</span>



==COIN AFF 1AC Grady Round 5== 
===[[#_GoBack]]**Plan Text**=== 
**Plan - The United States federal government should transition to a counterterrorism strategy by reducing the amount of its military personnel present in Afghanistan to 13000 by 2012.**

===CMR Advantage Ohio Valley=== 
Obama will defer to military leaders in status quo.
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Foust</span>, military intelligence analyst <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">11-16-</span>2010 [Joshua “Don’t bring a knife to a gunfight… over Afghan strategy,” Need To Know—a public affairs program on PBS, November 16th, Available Online at http://www.pbs.org/wnet/need-to-know/voices/don%E2%80%99t-bring-a-knife-to-a-gunfight%E2%80%A6-over-afghan-strategy/5168/]
As the public leaking and pundit-wrangling 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND </span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">public bidding for more time</span> to accomplish something.
Continuing deference destroys civilian control over the military – change must come from the top. 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Foust</span>, military intelligence analyst <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">11-16</span>-2010 [Joshua “Don’t bring a knife to a gunfight… over Afghan strategy,” Need To Know—a public affairs program on PBS, November 16th, Available Online at http://www.pbs.org/wnet/need-to-know/voices/don%E2%80%99t-bring-a-knife-to-a-gunfight%E2%80%A6-over-afghan-strategy/5168/]
And what to make of all the public 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND </span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">, and even the Joint Chiefs of Staff.</span>
Brink is now – December review sets up internal fighting 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Foust</span>, military intelligence analyst <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">11-16</span>-2010 [Joshua “Don’t bring a knife to a gunfight… over Afghan strategy,” Need To Know—a public affairs program on PBS, November 16th, Available Online at http://www.pbs.org/wnet/need-to-know/voices/don%E2%80%99t-bring-a-knife-to-a-gunfight%E2%80%A6-over-afghan-strategy/5168/]
The war in Afghanistan is at a crossroads
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND </span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">noticeably affected the insurgency to still more reporters.</span>
COIN’s nature blurs the line between the political and military realm – this kills CMR
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Desch,</span> professor of political science at the University of Notre Dame, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10/18</span> 2010 [ Stephen M. , “Why have the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan been so corrosive of civil-military relations?” [[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/10/17/why_have_the_wars_in_iraq_and_afghanistan_been_so_corrosive_of-civil_military_relations]]] 
Beginning with the pre-Iraq war debate 
AND 
cost of Obama's (and Bush's) wars. 
Obama’s perceived control of Afghanistan is vital to global perception of US power, de-escalation key
Andrew J. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Bacevich, 10/5</span> Professor of History and International Relations at Boston University, graduated from West Point, former Colonel in the United States Army, holds a Ph.D. in American Diplomatic History from Princeton University, 10-05-2010 (“Obama Must Defy His Generals,” The New Republic, October 5th, Available Online at http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130346439, Accessed 10-12-2010)
Andrew J. Bacevich is professor of history and international relations at Boston University. His new book is Washington Rules: America’s Path to Permanent War.
"The President is an elected king," 
AND 
to find himself soon thereafter seeking new employment.
Failure to maintain credibility destroys international cooperation making global conflict inevitable. 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The Quadrennial Defense Review Independent Panel</span>—a bipartisan congressional panel <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">2010</span> (“The QDR in Perspective: Meeting America’s National Security Needs In the 21st Century,” The Final Report of the Quadrennial Defense Review Independent Panel, Released on July 29th, Available Online at http://www.usip.org/files/qdr/qdrreport.pdf, p. 28-29)
These five trends frame a range of choices 
AND 
stakes that are higher than anyone would like.

Military dominance of foreign policy results in tunnel vision, conflict escalation, and adventurist wars that drag the U.S. into perpetual quagmires.
Eric <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Martin</span>, editor of Obsidian Wings, The Progressive Realist, and American Footprints—three leading foreign policy blogs, holds a B.A. in Philosophy from New York University and a J.D. from Fordham University, 10-09-<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">2010</span> (“If All You Have Is A Hammer…,” American Footprints—a foreign policy blog, October 9th, Available Online at [[http://americanfootprints.com/wp/2010/10/if-all-you-ask-is-a-hammer/]])
One of the maladies plaguing US foreign policy 
AND 
doctrine, mythically endowed “surges” etc. 

===**Negotiations Advantage**=== 
**Advantage 1: Negotiations**
**Status quo Negotiations lead to instability – focused on regional interests**
**Amritage and Berger 11/12 2010** [Richard L and Samuel R. “U.S. Strategy for Pakistan and Afghanistan” PDF p.27-8] 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Under the assumption that many Afghan insurgent leaders </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">AND </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">of al-Qaeda and other international terrorists.</span>

**Successful negotiations key to regional stability – spills over to Indo-Pak relations**
**Rashid, 11/10 2010** [Ahmed, “The Road to Kabul Runs Through Kashmir” The Road to Kabul Runs Through Kashmir
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Before he was elected, Obama suggested he </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">AND </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">ever-widening chaos. It's Obama's choice.</span>
**Central Asian instability risks global nuclear conflict involving the U.S. and Russia**
**Blank, 1** - professor of research at the Strategic Studies Institute of the US Army War College, (Stephen, Central Asian Security: The New International Context, ed: Allison, p. 142-144)
The regional structure of political forces hardly engenders 
AND 
to resist them by balancing competing rivals.66 
**Fortunately - A Shift to smaller footprint can stabilize Afghanistan and lead to successful negotiations – regional cooperation**
**Amritage and Berger 11/12 2010** [Richard L and Samuel R. “U.S. Strategy for Pakistan and Afghanistan” PDF p.56-8] 
As this assessment unfolds, the Obama administration 
AND 
Pakistan-based terrorist networks, like LeT.
**Reducing presence makes it sustainable and facilitates a settlement with the Taliban**
**Stewart, 10**- Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (1/14/10, Rory, “Afghanistan: what could work,” http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=4) 
This may be fatal for Obama’s ambition to 
AND 
excellent for Afghans and good for the world.
**A clear and unequivocal strategy is key – only Obama can decrease the ambiguity of the deadline. The alternative is losing the war and surrendering a safe haven.**
**Gerson, 10/12** 2010 [Michael, “In Afghanistan, the first hints of success” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/10/11/AR2010101104272.html?hpid=opinionsbox1]]] 
Success in Afghanistan is beginning to come in the first muddy trickles after a long drought.
Small groups of Taliban fighters -- sometimes a 
AND 
point. And only he can remove it. 
**That causes global nuclear conflict**
William **Pitt 9**, New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence.", 5/8/09, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183) 
But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a 
AND 
addressing the situation. So should we all.
**Even if the Taliban don’t take over, there is a moral obligation to maintain presence – collapse would devolve into a civil war and loss of human rights.**
**Grant, 2010** [Succeeding in Afghanistan by George Grant http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf]
Undoubtedly the most severely affected victims of failure 
AND 
security and development to succeed without external support.

===Terrorism and Solvency=== 
See Michigan 1AC - same card used

==COIN Aff 1AC Michigan== 
===Status Quo=== 
[[#_GoBack]]**The Status Quo - Obama has pledged to withdrawal but it is uncertain – most likely a presence will stay past 2011**
**O’Hanlon**, Director of Research and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy, 2010 [ Michael E. O’Hanlon, “Afghanistan, U.S. Military, U.S. Department of Defense, Defense, Democracy Promotion” [[http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2010/0825_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx]]] 
Nine years ago, the United States worked 
AND 
S. troops still in Afghanistan through 2012.
===Negotiations Advantage=== 
**The Advantage 1 is negotiations**
**The status quo makes negotiations unsuccessful – Taliban see Counterinsurgency as an unwillingness to participate.**
**Masadykov Giustozzi, and Page,United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan 2010** [Talatbek, Antonio, and James Michael. “NEGOTIATING WITH THE TALIBAN:
TOWARD A SOLUTION FOR THE AFGHAN CONFLICT” http://eprints.lse.ac.uk/28117/1/WP66.2.pdf]
As has been observed, the security situation 
AND 
forward or to discuss coming on-side.

**Specifically - Long term presence is key to successful negotiations. Redefining the strategy is key – sheer military force alone wont win the war.**
**Rapone, Major for the US Army, 2010** [ MAJ David J Rapone, “Engaging the Insurgent in Negotiation: Lessons from Northern Ireland Applied to Afghanistan” US Army Monograph. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA523203]]] 
To counter this powerful narrative requires a radical 
AND 
PIRA in 1972, believes it can win.

**Withdrawal puts pressure on the Taliban to reconcile with the Afghan government**
**Afghan Daily, 9** (12/4/09, from BBC Monitoring International Reports, “Talk of troops withdrawal deprives Taleban of some of its propaganda - Afghan daily,” Gale group)
It can be inferred from the comments by 
AND 
withdrawal will deprive the Taleban of this excuse.
**Prefer our internal link – historical suspicions increase the magnitude**
**Masadykov et al continue** [Talatbek, Antonio, and James Michael. “NEGOTIATING WITH THE TALIBAN:
TOWARD A SOLUTION FOR THE AFGHAN CONFLICT” http://eprints.lse.ac.uk/28117/1/WP66.2.pdf]
Moreover, ISAF has struggled to adopt tactics 
AND 
of approaching the conflict from a new perspective.
**Reducing presence makes it sustainable and facilitates a settlement with the Taliban**
**Stewart, 10-** Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (1/14/10, Rory, “Afghanistan: what could work,” http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=4) 
This may be fatal for Obama’s ambition to 
AND 
excellent for Afghans and good for the world.
**A clear and unequivocal strategy is key – only Obama can decrease the ambiguity of the deadline. The alternative is losing the war and surrendering a safe haven.**
**Gerson, 10/12 2010** [Michael, “In Afghanistan, the first hints of success” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/10/11/AR2010101104272.html?hpid=opinionsbox1]]] 
Success in Afghanistan is beginning to come in the first muddy trickles after a long drought.
Small groups of Taliban fighters -- sometimes a 
AND 
point. And only he can remove it. 
**Losing Afghanistan leads to Taliban takeover of Pakistan risking nuclear war**
**Grant, 2010** [Succeeding in Afghanistan by George Grant http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf]
In addition to increasing the risk to Western 
AND 
displacement and further instability would nonetheless be severe.
**Central Asian instability risks global nuclear conflict involving the U.S. and Russia**
**Blank, 1** - professor of research at the Strategic Studies Institute of the US Army War College, (Stephen, Central Asian Security: The New International Context, ed: Allison, p. 142-144)
The regional structure of political forces hardly engenders 
AND 
to resist them by balancing competing rivals.66 
**Even if the Taliban don’t take over, there is a moral obligation to maintain presence – collapse would devolve into a civil war and loss of human rights.**
**Grant, 2010** [Succeeding in Afghanistan by George Grant http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf]
Undoubtedly the most severely affected victims of failure 
AND 
security and development to succeed without external support.

===Plan Text=== 
**Thus the plan – The United States federal government should transition to an effective counterterrorism strategy by reducing the amount of its military personnel present in Afghanistan to 13000 by 2012.**
===Terrorism Advantage=== 
**A nuclear terrorist attack is inevitably by 2013 - Al Qaida will execute it and it will kill thousands and cause global instability - ALL top experts agree**
**Allison 10** - Douglas Dillon professor of government and director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government (Graham, “A Failure to Imagine the Worst,” Foreign Policy, January 25th, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/25/a_failure_to_imagine_the_worst?page=0,0)
In his first speech to the U.
AND 
action, and relentless determination to pursue it.
**Al Qaeda has the means to launch a CBW attack on the US – recruitment**
**Woodward, 2010** [Bob, Obama’s Wars. Published 9/27 2010 Kindle Edition Locations 228-36] 
McConnell had then moved during the September briefing to one of the most pressing worries. Al Qaeda was recruiting people from the 35 countries who didn’t need visas to enter the United States. It was paying them good money, bringing them into the ungoverned regions by the dozens, training them in all aspects of warfare—explosives and chemical—and trying to have them acquire biological weapons. “We’re a big open sieve,” McConnell said. “They’re trying to get people with passports that don’t require a visa to get into the United States.” Al Qaeda had not succeeded yet, but that was the big worry. “We can’t find any cell in the United States, but we suspect there may be some.” That got Obama’s full attention. Some of the 9/11 hijackers had operated for nearly 18 months in the United States before their attacks. As he had said at the end of that meeting, there were reasons to worry about winning the election.
**Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack**
**Arkedis 9** (Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven | Suo)
As deliberations about the Obama administration's strategic direction 
AND 
Qaeda the only physical space it can access.
**Escalates to US-China-Russia war, environmental collapse, and extinction**
**Morgan 9** (Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea [[@http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/science/journal/00163287|Futures]], [[@http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/science?_ob=PublicationURL&_tockey=%23TOC%235805%232009%23999589989%231515128%23FLA%23&_cdi=5805&_pubType=J&view=c&_auth=y&_acct=C000014438&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=209690&md5=7eaadd08919055b45011bba80bf06023|Volume 41, Issue 10]], December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race)
In a remarkable website on nuclear war, 
AND 
through the accidental or reckless use of strategic weapons
**Nuclear terrorism is a d-rule – we cant afford to make any mistakes.**
**Woodward, 2010** [Bob, Obama’s Wars. Published 9/27 2010 Kindle Edition Locations 6097] 
To address worries of a nuclear terrorist attack in the United States, Brennan ran a top-to-bottom classified exercise on Tuesday, May 18, testing how the intelligence agencies and federal government would respond. Called COOPEX 2010 (Continuity of Operations Exercise), it was essentially a scripted war game in which terrorists detonated a small, crude nuclear weapon in Indianapolis, taking down several city blocks and killing thousands. In the hypothetical scenario, the terrorists had access to about 17 kilograms of fissile material. After the Indianapolis blast, enough was left over for a second bomb, which the terrorists planned to set off in Los Angeles. Obama himself participated, appearing on the secure video with a series of questions. How did this happen? Who most likely did it? Was it state-sponsored? How can we retaliate? As part of the game, the nuclear material had come from a country much like Pakistan, but the attack was not state-sponsored because that country—just as Pakistan was in some cases—had been fighting the terrorist group responsible for it. No immediate retaliation against the country was deemed necessary. Each federal department and agency had to weigh in with evaluations and recommendations. The Agriculture Department noted that the price of food was shooting through the roof. Some discussion focused on the demand for services and treatment at Indianapolis hospitals, but no one addressed the question of clean water, one of the major needs after a nuclear fallout. Such an attack would create mass panic and almost unimaginable dislocations in the economy and transportation, making 9/11 look small. But COOPEX 2010 included no discussion of what Congress, the media or 300 million Americans were doing. The attack was presented in a vacuum, as if all those people stayed on the sidelines. Michael Morell, named deputy director of the CIA a month earlier, raised a different problem. According to his calculations, there was likely enough fissile material for yet another bomb. “We haven’t found the third bomb,” Morell said. “Brennan went ripshit,” recalled one senior participant. This was designed as a two-bomb scenario, not three. “And he’s trying to wrap it up neatly and tidily, but Morell kept wondering if there was a third bomb. What about a third bomb? And they couldn’t wrap it up.” This participant said the whole exercise was “dumbfounding” and “surrealistic,” demonstrating that the administration seemed woefully unprepared to deal with such an attack. During my Oval Office interview with the president, Obama volunteered some extended thoughts about terrorism: “I said very early on, as a senator, and continued to believe as a presidential candidate and now as president, that we can absorb a terrorist attack.” I was surprised. “We’ll do everything we can to prevent it, but even a 9/11, even the biggest attack ever, that ever took place on our soil, we absorbed it and we are stronger. This is a strong, powerful country that we live in, and our people are incredibly resilient.” Then he addressed his big concern, “A potential game changer would be a nuclear weapon in the hands of terrorists, blowing up a major American city. Or a weapon of mass destruction in a major American city. And so when I go down the list of things I have to worry about all the time, that is at the top, because that’s one area where you can’t afford any mistakes. And so right away, coming in, we said, how are we going to start ramping up and putting that at the center of a lot of our national security discussion? Making sure that that occurrence, even if remote, never happens.”

**Removing troops increases local pressure against Al-Qaeda**
**Dorronsoro 9** (DR. Gilles November 17, “U.S. STRATEGY IN IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN; COMMITTEE: HOUSE ARMED SERVICES; SUBCOMMITTEE: OVERSIGHT AND INVESTIGATIONS”, lexis)
The International Coalition's main objective in Afghanistan is 
AND 
invest more resources into fighting its primarily enemy directly
===**Solvency**=== 
**Contention 3 is solvency**

**13000 troops is enough – the forces can win the hearts and mind while containing Al Qaeda**
**Long, Professor at Columbia University, 2010** [ Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan” ] 
The JAF based task force would likely need 
AND 
(essentially a 20-24 month drawdown).

==COIN Negotiations 1AC Johns Creek (Round 2)== 
===Inherency=== 
**Contention One is Inherency**
**The Status Quo - Obama has pledged to withdrawal but it is uncertain – most likely a presence will stay past 2011**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">O’Hanlon</span>, Director of Research and Senior Fellow at Foreign** Policy, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">**2010** [</span> Michael E. O’Hanlon, “Afghanistan, U.S. Military, U.S. Department of Defense, Defense, Democracy Promotion” [[http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2010/0825_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx]]]
Nine years ago, the United States worked
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> S. troops still in Afghanistan through 2012.</span>

===Negotiations Advantage=== 
**The Advantage is Negotiations**
**Negotiations process is underway – a credible timetable is a necessary to successful talks and stabilization of Afghanistan.**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Sengupta and Cavendish 10/7</span> 2010 [Kim and Julius “ Taliban's high command in secret talks to end war in Afghanistan”** [[http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/asia/talibans-high-command-in-secret-talks-to-end-war-in-afghanistan-2099916.html]]]
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Secret high-level negotiations between the Afghan </span>
AND
a condition the Americans will also insist on.
**Obama’s plan kills negotiations – Taliban see Counterinsurgency as an unwillingness to participate.**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Masadykov Giustozzi, and Page,United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan 2010</span> [Talatbek, Antonio, and** James Michael. “NEGOTIATING WITH THE TALIBAN:
TOWARD A SOLUTION FOR THE AFGHAN CONFLICT” http://eprints.lse.ac.uk/28117/1/WP66.2.pdf]
As has been observed, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the security situation</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> forward or to discuss coming on-side.</span>
**De-escalation is key to long term solutions**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Masadykov et all continue</span>** [Talatbek, Antonio, and James Michael. “NEGOTIATING WITH THE TALIBAN:
TOWARD A SOLUTION FOR THE AFGHAN CONFLICT” http://eprints.lse.ac.uk/28117/1/WP66.2.pdf]
By January 12, 2009, ISAF had
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> the aim to reduce violence potentially more attractive.</span>
**Specifically - Long term presence is key to successful negotiations. Redefining the strategy is key – sheer military force alone wont win the war.**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Rapone, Major for the US Army, 2010</span> [ MAJ David J Rapone, “Engaging the Insurgent in Negotiation: Lessons from Northern Ireland Applied to Afghanistan” US Army Monograph.** [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA523203]]]
To counter this powerful narrative requires a radical
AND
PIRA in 1972, believes it can win.
**Prefer our internal link – historical suspicions increase the magnitude**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Masadykov et al continue</span>** [Talatbek, Antonio, and James Michael. “NEGOTIATING WITH THE TALIBAN:
TOWARD A SOLUTION FOR THE AFGHAN CONFLICT” http://eprints.lse.ac.uk/28117/1/WP66.2.pdf]
Moreover, ISAF has struggled to adopt tactics
AND
of approaching the conflict from a new perspective.
**Withdrawal puts pressure on the Taliban to reconcile with the Afghan government**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Afghan Daily, 9</span> (12/4/09, from BBC Monitoring International Reports, “Talk of troops withdrawal deprives Taleban of some of its propaganda - Afghan daily,” Gale group)**
It can be inferred from the comments by
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> withdrawal will deprive the Taleban of this excuse</span>.
**Reducing presence makes it sustainable and facilitates a settlement with the Taliban**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Stewart, 10</span>-** Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (1/14/10, Rory, “Afghanistan: what could work,” http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=4)
This may be fatal for Obama’s ambition to
AND
excellent for Afghans and good for the world.
**Reconciliation is necessary to prevent conflict escalation**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Masadykov et al continue</span> [Talatbek, Antonio, and** James Michael. “NEGOTIATING WITH THE TALIBAN:
TOWARD A SOLUTION FOR THE AFGHAN CONFLICT” http://eprints.lse.ac.uk/28117/1/WP66.2.pdf]
John Keene (1996: 134) remarks
AND
cost of communication between groups is relatively low.
**A negotiating framework recognizes the enemy and leads to a transformational approach changing the way conflicts are resolved.**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Rapone</span>, Major for the US Army, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">2010</span>** [ MAJ David J Rapone, “Engaging the Insurgent in Negotiation: Lessons from Northern Ireland Applied to Afghanistan” US Army Monograph. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA523203]]]
Conflict transformation emerged as an approach to reduce
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> periods presented opportunities for outreach by counterinsurgency forces.</span>
**A clear and unequivocal strategy is key – only Obama can decrease the ambiguity of the deadline. The alternative is losing the war and surrendering a safe haven.**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Gerson, 10/12</span> 2010** [Michael, “In Afghanistan, the first hints of success” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/10/11/AR2010101104272.html?hpid=opinionsbox1]]]
Success in Afghanistan is beginning to come in the first muddy trickles after a long drought.
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Small groups of Taliban fighters</span> -- sometimes a
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> point. And only he can remove it.</span>
===Plan Text=== 
**Thus the plan – The United States federal government should transition to an effective counterterrorism strategy by reducing the amount of its military personnel to 13000 over the next three years.**
**Contention 3 is solvency**

**13000 troops is enough – the forces can win the hearts and mind while containing Al Qaeda**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Long</span>,** Professor at Columbia University, **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">2010</span>** [ Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan” ] 
The JAF based task force would likely need 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND </span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">(</span>essentially a 20-24 month drawdown).
**Even if counterinsurgency can work policymakers should presume to the counterterrorism option – economic issues prove**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Long</span>, Professor at Columbia University, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">2010</span>** [ Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan” ] 
First, in terms of overall U.
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND </span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">resources with goals, the essence of strategy.</span>

==COIN 1AC Wake Forest== 
===**Inherency**=== 

The Status Quo - Obama has pledged to withdrawal but it is uncertain – most likely a presence will stay past 2011
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Director of Research and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">2010</span></span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[ Michael E. O’Hanlon, “Afghanistan, U.S. Military, U.S. Department of Defense, Defense, Democracy Promotion” [[http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2010/0825_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx]]] </span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">Nine years ago, the United States worked </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> S. troops still in Afghanistan through 2012.</span></span></span>


===**Plan Text**=== 

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should reduce the amount of soldiers present in Afghanistan to levels consistent with counter-terrorism.**


===**Negotiations**=== 

**Negotiations are in process – safeguard is key**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">General **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Petraeus</span>**, Commander of US forces in Afghanistan<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">, **8/25** </span>2010</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">General David Petraeus, Interviewer: Jennifer Griffin, “</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Transcript: Gen. David Petraeus Interviewed by Fox News' Jennifer Griffin” [[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2010/08/25/transcript-gen-david-petraeus-interviewed-fox-news-jennifer-griffin/]]] </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">PETRAEUS: Well, let's talk first about</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> 50 percent that is female,</span> in particular.</span>

**Withdrawal puts pressure on the Taliban to reconcile with the Afghan government**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Afghan Daily, 9</span></span>**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">12/4/09, from BBC Monitoring International Reports, “</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Talk of troops withdrawal deprives Taleban of some of its propaganda - Afghan daily,” Gale group)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">It can be inferred from the comments by </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> withdrawal will deprive the Taleban of this excuse</span></span>__.__</span>

**Reducing presence makes it sustainable and facilitates a settlement with the Taliban**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Stewart, 10</span>-** Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (1/14/10, Rory, “Afghanistan: what could work,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=4</span>)
<span style="color: #222222; display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">This may be fatal for Obama’s ambition to </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="color: #222222;">AND </span>__</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="color: #222222;">excellent for Afghans and good for the world.</span>__</span>
**Reconciliation now will boost the legitimacy of the Afghan government and solve instability**
**Ibrahim, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> * a Research Fellow at the International Security Program and at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University (Azeem, LA Times, "Afghanistan's Way Forward Must Include the Taliban", 12/9/9, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/19792/afghanistans_way_forward_must_include_the_taliban.html)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">President Obama, in spelling out the new </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND </span>__</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the alliance can begin bringing its soldiers home.</span>__</span>

**Instability Draws in great powers – becomes the new site of proxy wars**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wesley 10-</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> Executive Director of the Lowy Institute for International Policy (Michael Wesley, “Stability in Afghanistan: Why it matters,” Lowy Institute for International Policy, 2/25/10, http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2010/02/25/A-stable-Afghanistan-Why-we-should-care.aspx)</span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; text-align: justify;">Hugh __White is__ right __to worry about the__</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="color: black;">AND </span>__</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="color: black;">their own efforts to exert influence and control.</span>__</span>

**Central Asian instability risks global nuclear conflict involving the U.S. and Russia**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Blank, 1 </span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">-</span><span style="color: black;"> professor of research at the Strategic Studies Institute of the US Army War College, (Stephen, </span>__<span style="color: black;">Central Asian Security: The New International Context</span>__<span style="color: black;">, ed: Allison, p. 142-144)</span>

<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">The regional structure of political forces hardly engenders </span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; text-align: justify;">AND</span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; text-align: justify;"> to resist them by balancing competing rivals.66 </span>

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">US/Russia war would lead to extinction</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Helfand and Pastore 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> March 31, 2009, <span class="vitstoryheadline">“U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]</span></span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">President Obama and Russian President Dimitri Medvedev are</span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;"> AND</span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;"> that existed in 1995 remains in place today. </span>

**<span class="underline">Fragmentation</span> of Afghanistan -->go nuclear**
Stephen John **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 7</span></span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span>** Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee & a political psychologist, researcher into Chaos/Complexity Theory, "Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?", http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639
Although disliked and despised in many quarters__,__
AND
Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!

**Military presence in Afghanistan destabilizes Pakistan – pushes insurgents across the border and boosts terrorism**
**Simon, and Stevenson, 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">* adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND **Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009 http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409)**</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt; text-align: justify;">Whatever US officials might concede privately, the </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">to act in the breach of American ineffectuality</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 7pt;">.</span></span>



**That causes global nuclear conflict**
William **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pitt 9</span></span>,** New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence.", 5/8/09, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"> AND</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"> addressing the situation. So should we all.</span>


**Ending the Counter-insurgency strategy is key**
**D’Souza 9 <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Shanthie Mariet D'Souza 2009, Associate Fellow at Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, Talking to the Taliban: Will it Ensure 'Peace' in Afghanistan? Strategic Analysis, Volume 33, Issue 2 March 2009 , pages 254 – 272]</span>**

<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Defying the initial expectations of total and swift </span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">of insurgencies have ended through a negotiated settlement</span></span></span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 14pt;">.</span>__




===**Terrorism**=== 

**A nuclear terrorist attack is inevitably by 2013 - Al Qaida will execute it and it will kill thousands and cause global instability - ALL top experts agree**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Allison 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Douglas Dillon professor of government and director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government (Graham, “A Failure to Imagine the Worst,” Foreign Policy, January 25th, <span style="color: black;">http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/25/a_failure_to_imagine_the_worst?page=0,0</span>)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">In his first speech to the U.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="underline">AND</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="underline"> action, and relentless determination to pursue it.</span></span>


**Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack**
**<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Arkedis 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven | Suo)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">As deliberations about the Obama administration's strategic direction</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> Qaeda the only physical space it can access.</span></span></span>


**Terrorist attack leads to extinction**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">The Washington Times 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By Louis Rene Beres, Thomas McInerney and Paul E. Vallely, SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES, July 18, “McCain and Obama must take note”, lexis)</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;"> Neither presidential candidate has made serious mention </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> issues concern nothing less than our </span>physical <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">survival.</span></span></span>


**COIN operations provides a safe haven for the Taliban – FATA regions and increased resentment**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Janjua 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Muhammad Qaiser, “In the Shadow of the Durand Line: Security, Stability, and the Future of Pakistan and Afghanistan” Naval Postgraduate School, June 2009, p. 69-70]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="DebateUnderline">Regions with strategic importance have been exploited by </span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">AND </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, especially after the Mumbai attacks.151</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> and</span></span>


**A limited counterterrorism deployment is the only sustainable strategy to keep al Qaeda out of Afghanistan**
**<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Long 10</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Austin Long is an assistant professor at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs and co-author with William Rosenau of The Phoenix Program and Contemporary Counterinsurgency at RAND, 2010, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan”, Orbis, Volume 54, Issue 2, 2010, Pages 199-214 | Suo)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">As policymakers have sought to grapple with the </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">AND</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> the best alternative for the United States</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.56</span></span>


**Removing troops increases local pressure against Al-Qaeda**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Dorronsoro 9</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(DR. Gilles November 17, “U.S. STRATEGY IN IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN; COMMITTEE: HOUSE ARMED SERVICES; SUBCOMMITTEE: OVERSIGHT AND INVESTIGATIONS”, lexis)</span>**
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">International Coalition's </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">main objective</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in <span class="hit">Afghanistan</span> </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">is </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> invest more resources into fighting its primarily enemy directly</span>


**Only a risk of presence creating a safe haven – collateral damage causes the Taliban and al Qaeda to unite**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Innocent and Carpenter 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Malou Innocent and Ted Galen Carpenter, “Escaping the “Graveyard of Empires”: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan” p 5]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">Moreover, the worst-case scenario—</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> likely to push </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">disparate</span> Islamist <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">groups to unite.</span></span></span>


===**Solvency**=== 


**<span class="verdana">Reducing troops and realigning resources shifts to a focus on counterterrorism</span>**
<span style="color: black;">**Long**, </span>assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs**, 2010** [Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan” Foreign Policy Research Institute Spring 2010, Orbis, p. 199-200]
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">One of the most important debates to emerge </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">AND</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;"> substantially disrupting and dismantling if not totally defeating.</span>


**COIN decks US support from the government – reduction solves stability**
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Long 10</span></span>****<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Austin Long is an assistant professor at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs and co-author with William Rosenau of The Phoenix Program and Contemporary Counterinsurgency at RAND, 2010, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan”, Orbis, Volume 54, Issue 2, 2010, Pages 199-214 | Suo)</span>**


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: aqua; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%;">Second, the President has directed an increase AND</span></span> stop it with 13,000 there.52</span>
==Addons== 
===Terror --> SE Asian Stability=== 

**Afghan Militancy destabilizes South Asia**
**Salehyan**, Professor of Political Science, **2010** [Idean, “TRANSNATIONAL INSURGENCIES AND THE ESCALATION OF REGIONAL CONFLICT: LESSONS FOR IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN” p. 39]
In Afghanistan, the spread of militancy to
AND
for patrolling the border are not in place.

===Cyberterror --> Econ Collapse=== 

**Cyberterror attack collapses the US economy**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Woodward, 2010</span>** [Bob, Obama’s Wars. Published 9/27 2010 Kindle Edition Locations 312-29] 
McConnell explained how the Real Time, Regional Gateway gave the NSA an incredible exploitation capability—reading other people’s mail, listening to their conversations, and sorting their data. That was NSA’s traditional speciality. But there was also an attack capability that Bush had approved in 2007 against computers and communications in Iraq. The NSA had argued that it was one of the most powerful capabilities in the world, so it had been used with the utmost care and restraint in order to avoid starting a cyber war. The NSA’s offensive capability, called Computer Network Attack (CNA), was the most sophisticated stealthy computer hacking. Cyber teams could break into computer systems in foreign countries. Their digital work somewhat resembled the targeted quick strikes by the Delta Force or a Navy SEAL team. The highly secret operations were run through the Army Network Warfare Battalion of the 704th Military Intelligence Brigade at NSA’s Fort Meade headquarters outside Washington, D.C. There was another tier—Computer Network Defense (CND). McConnell noted that the United States was vulnerable to cyber attacks. If the 19 terrorists from 9/11 had been cyber-smart and attacked a single bank, it would’ve had an order of magnitude greater impact on the American and global economies than dropping the two World Trade Center towers, he said. The Bank of New York and Citibank each handle about $3 trillion a day in financial transfers. To put that in perspective, the size of the entire American economy, its annual Gross Domestic Product, is $14 trillion. If the bank data was destroyed, there would be financial chaos. People wouldn’t be able to get their money, know whether they had it, or if they had made payments. Imagine if you disrupted that process? Wealth was most often just an entry on a computer. Modern banking was built on assurance and confidence in those digital entries rather than gold and currency. A few people could ruin the U.S. and the global economy and destroy faith in the U.S. dollar, McConnell said. There were no real protections and the system was totally open to attack, he said. Power grids, telecommunication lines, air traffic control—all computer-dependent enterprises—were likewise vulnerable to cyber attacks. 


===Presence --> Russia War=== 
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">US presence in Afghanistan is a flashpoint for US-Russian conflict</span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Cullison and Dreazen 9</span>** (Alan Cullison And Yochi J. Dreazen, Staff Writers for The Wall Street Journal, February 5, 2009, “Moscow Moves to Counter U.S. Power in Central Asia”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123378027003448977.html | Suo)
MOSCOW -- <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Russia is reasserting its role in </span>
AND World Security Institute, a Washington think tank.
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">US/Russia war would lead to extinction</span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Helfand and Pastore</span> 9** [Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.
March 31, 2009, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]
President Obama and Russian President Dimitri Medvedev are
AND
that existed in 1995 remains in place today.

===Presence --> Pashtun Nationalism=== 
**US presence is feeding Pashtun Nationalism**
**SAIKAL 2010** [AMIN, “Afghanistan and Pakistan: The Question of Pashtun Nationalism?,” Journal of Muslim Minority Affairs, Vol. 30, No. 1, March 2010 p. 11-2]
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Pakistan’s anti-Taliban campaign has been accompanied </span>
AND
their historical goal of an independent “Pashtunistan”.
**Pashtun nationalism leads to Indo-Pak conflict – Pashtuns taking control of Pakistan would lead to expansion into Kashmir.**
**Janjua 2009** [Muhammad Qaiser, “In the Shadow of the Durand Line: Security, Stability, and the Future of Pakistan and Afghanistan” Naval Postgraduate School, June 2009, p. 89-90]
Although the Kashmir dispute between India and Pakistan
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> is seen as a major threat to India.</span>

=**Negative**= 

==**START**== 

===**1NC Wake Forest**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">START will be ratified</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogin 9/7</span>**/10 (Josh, Foreign Policy, "Kerry's draft resolution on New START already facing Hill pushback," <span style="color: blue;">[[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/09/07/kerrys_draft_resolution_on_new_start_already_facing_hill_pushback]]</span>)
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Kerry and Lugar "are working on</span>__ __a__
AND
members to a decision sooner rather than later.

**INSERT LINK**

<span style="margin-top: 10pt; page-break-after: avoid;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pushing controversial issues drains Obama’s capital</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Mark </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seidenfeld</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, Associate Professor, Florida State University College of Law, Iowa Law Review, October 19</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">94</span>**
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">In addition, the propensity of congressional committees</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"> AND</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"> on legislative changes to implement his policy vision. </span>
<span style="margin-top: 10pt; page-break-after: avoid;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">START key to prevent extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-top: 10pt; page-break-after: avoid;"> **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. Accidental launches triggers US-Russo nuclear war </span>**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blanchfield 9 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mike Blanchfield, staff writer, 7-4-2009. [Montreal Gazette, “Duck and cover or a world without nukes?” http://www.montrealgazette.com/story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor=]</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Still, Blair and many others say</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> t__he__ </span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">AND</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"> or we're buried by them," Blair said.</span>
<span style="margin-top: 10pt; page-break-after: avoid;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. Failure to renew START would hurts US-Russia relations</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kimball 9</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daryl Kimball, Executive Director of the Arms Control Association, 4-27-2009. [Federal News Service, Transcript: Next Steps in US-Russian Nuclear Arms Reductions: The START Follow-On Negotiations and Beyond, p. http://www.armscontrol.org/node/3632]</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">And just as importantly,</span> __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">START established a </span>__</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND </span>__</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">already **strained** U.S.-Russian relations</span>__.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Relations key to solve all global problems, outweighs the case </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tayler 8</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey Tayler, Russia correspondent of the Atlantic Monthly, 11-14-2008. [The Atlantic, Medvedev Spoils the Party,</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200811u/medvedev-obama]</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Like it or not,</span> __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the U</span>__nited __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">S</span>__tates</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND </span>__</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">to face a volatile future arm in arm</span>__.</span>


===**Neg Block**=== 
====**Turns Case - Afghanistan**==== 
**Russia key to Afghanistan**
**NYT 9** (New York Times, “Obama's Afghan challenge: Build a new alliance,” 1/5, http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/05/opinion/05iht-edafghan.1.19092937.html?_r=1)
President-elect Barack Obama has said he
AND
But <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the alternative is endless war in Afghanistan.</span>

====**Uniqueness Wall**==== 
**Their ev doesn’t assume polcap—even if it won’t pass now that’s why Obama’s investment is key to persuade others**
**Hurlburt 10** (Heather, executive director of the National Security Network, Liberal Apathy, the National Security Story, [[http://www.tnr.com/blog/jonathan-cohn/76729/liberal-apathy-national-security-story]])
And yet. In 2008, Americans said
AND
addition to pummeling them when they are not.
**START is at the top of the Senate agenda—committee vote next week**
**Reuters 9/3/10** ("U.S. grasp of Russia nukes may weaken warns official," [[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE68254620100903]])
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The</span> Senate <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">F</span>oreign <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">R</span>elations <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">C</span>ommittee on Friday <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">put </span>
AND
document so far, Senator Richard <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Lugar.</span>

**Senate will take up START next week**
**Clinton 9/8/10** (Hillary, US Sec of State, "A Conversation with U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton," [[http://www.cfr.org/publication/22896/conversation_with_us_secretary_of_state_hillary_rodham_clinton.html]])

And in the course of the last 18
AND
of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">a win-win</span>. (Laughter.)
**And, Obama gets it done**
**Solash 9/9/10** (Richard, Radio Free Europe, "Clinton Touts Obama's Foreign Policy Successes," [[http://www.rferl.org/articleprintview/2152789.html]])
Clinton's speech comes at a key time for
AND
U.S.-led forces Afghanistan.

**Kerry and Lugar are building bipartisan consensus over START now**
**Global Security Newswire 9/8/10** ("Republicans knock 'New START' Ratification Text," [[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/siteservices/print_friendly.php?ID=nw_20100908_9182]])
Sources in Kerry office said the draft resolution
AND
. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">We're in the process of building consensus</span>."

====**AT: Democrats Link Turns**==== 
**Their Democrats link turns don’t apply – its only a question of whether Obama can get the Republicans on board**
**LaFranchi 7/23** (Howard, 2010, “Republican skepticism challenges US-Russia treaty on nuclear weapons”, http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Foreign-Policy/2010/0723/Republican-skepticism-challenges-US-Russia-treaty-on-nuclear-weapons, THE)
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Democrats</span>, many nonproliferation advocates, and some
AND
the White House clamber to address Republican concerns.

==**Afghanistan Specific Off Case**== 

==== ==== 
===**Jirga Counterplan**=== 
====**1NC**==== 
**What is necessary now is an enforcement of the recent Jirga. The suggestions should be followed by the US to ensure peace and cooperation from the international community to ensure Afghanistan’s stability**
Dr. Hubertus **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hoffman, Jun 8</span></span>**, 2010, He was Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic & International Studies (CSIS), Georgetown University. Dr. Hoffmann holds a Ph.D. in Political Science with "summa cum laude" (Prof. Karl Dietrich Bracher, University of Bonn, Germany) and is a lawyer as well. He is a reserve officer in the German Army (Field Artillery), President and Founder World Security Network Foundation: “Support the Proposals of the Afghanistan Peace Jirga!”
[[http://www.worldsecuritynetwork.com/printArticle3.cfm?article_id=18315]]
From June 2nd to June 4th 2010,
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND</span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> reconciliation that includes both soft and hard factors</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.</span>

**Jirga is non-binding, it’s not necessary for Karzai to obey all the recommendations which is why a strict enforcement is necessary**
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CNN June, 4th</span></span>,** 2010, staff writer for CNN “Karzai faces credibility balancing act after peace jirga” http://afghanistan.blogs.cnn.com/2010/06/04/karzai-faces-credibility-balancing-act-after-peace-jirga/
<span class="DebateUnderline">More clarification and more issues raised by delegates </span>
AND
are those Karzai wants to move forward with.

**German bases are expensive – solves for economy**
(David **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vine</span></span>**, Assistant Professor of Anthropology at American University in Washington, DC, Ed. Emily Schwartz Greco, 02/25/20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>, Foreign Policy in Focus, “Too Many Overseas Bases,” < http://www.fpif.org/articles/too_many_overseas_bases>. AP)
Officially the Pentagon counts 865 base sites,
AND
continue our profligate ways in the longer term.

===**Afghan Politics DA**=== 
====**1NC**==== 
=== === 
**A. Troops will stay past deadline**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reichmann and Rahim Faiz</span></span>, AP staff writers, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">7/21</span></span><span class="hn-date">/10, </span>Associated Press, Karzai reaffirms 2014 goal for Afghan-led security, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5hvWEqwq3CrRvaQCmt21MfoYhjZJQD9H30F8O5
KABUL, Afghanistan — <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The U.S</span></span>
AND
affairs, even four years down the road.

**B. Withdrawal now collapses Karzai’s government in favor of the Taliban**
John <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nagl</span></span>, president of the Center for a New American Security, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>. (“Debating Afghanistan”, //The National Interest,// March-April, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22916)
EXPELLED FROM Afghanistan within months of 9/
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND</span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> would crumble without U.S. support</span>.</span>
**C. Taliban takeover causes terrorist attacks and Indo-Pak conflict**
Alexander <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Downer</span></span>**,** Former Australian Foreign Affairs Minister, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">7/19</span></span>**/**10 (Advertiser "We can't leave yet", lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Afghanistan is now the longest war in which</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Karzai to appoint better-quality public administrators.</span>
**D. Indo-Pakistani Conflict Would Go Nuclear**
Martin <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schram</span></span>, Washington Reporter for 30+ years and Author of 5 Books, December 2, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">08,</span></span> Seattle Pi, http://www.seattlepi.com/opinion/390309_schramonline03.html
<span class="DebateUnderline">Once again, world leaders need to recall</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"> AND</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"> field --></span>

===**Drones DA**=== 
====**1NC**==== 
**Decreased troop presence increases drone presence**
Thomas **Hegghammer**, senior research fellow at the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment (FFI) and an associate of the Initiative on Religion in International Affairs at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. November 11, 20**09**, “The big impact of small footprints” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/11/11/the_big_impact_of_small_footprints]]</span> TP
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0.0001pt;">Last but not least__, the Taliban will__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0.0001pt;"> AND</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0.0001pt;"> however, we cannot have it both ways.</span>

**Increased drone warfare create racist and sexist evaluations of Afghan civilians**
Jutta **Weber**, Guest Professor at the Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies at the University of Duisburg-Essen, 20**09** [“Robotic Warfare, Human Rights and the Rhetoric of Ethical Machines”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gender.uu.se/filedownload.php?id=311|www.gender.uu.se/filedownload.php?id=311]]</span>, BBQ]
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0.0001pt;">The Price of New Warfare Scenarios: On</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0.0001pt;"> AND</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0.0001pt;"> the coming wars will be robot wars only.</span>
**This profiling is the deciding factor in ALL wars and genocide**
**Batur 07** (Pinar Batur, PhD @ UT-Austin – Prof. of Scociology @ Vassar, ‘7 [“The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide,” in //Handbook of the The Soiology of Racial and Ethnic Relations//, eds. Vera and Feagin, p. 441-443])
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0.0001pt;">Such act and thought, fueled by global </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0.3in 0.0001pt;">AND </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0.0001pt;">” and __exploitation__ (Fanon 1963: 96).</span>


==**South Korea Specific Off Case**== 
===Prolif Disadvantage=== 
====**1NC**==== 
**US troop pullout causes Japan to nuclearize and embolden China against Taiwan.**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Dao, 03 </span>(1/5/03, James, NY Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?” http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html, JMP)**
Deciding if now is the time depends on
AND
and airplanes that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">they see </span>in the region."

**China-Taiwan causes extinction.**
**The Strait Times, 2000**
[“No one gains in war over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis]
The high-intensity scenario postulates a cross
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> China to save the US from military defeat</span>.
**Japan prolif causes a chain reaction in Asia and collapses the NPT.**
**Halloran, 2009**
[Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html]
That anxiety has reinvigorated a debate about whether
AND
kept Japan huddled under the US nuclear umbrella.
**Nuclear war.**
**Cimbala, 2008**
[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld]
If the possibility existed of a mistaken preemption
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> the obsolescence or marginalization of major interstate warfare.</span>
====**Neg Block**==== 

===Ban Military Exercises Counterplan=== 
====**1NC**==== 
**The counterplan is sufficient to begin de-escalation and can be reversed if North Korea doesn’t reciprocate**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Chu, ‘06</span>**(2-13, John S., MAJ, US Army, “ Military Exercises in Korea: A Provocation or a Deterrent to War?”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA463339&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf )
The best way to avoid the nightmare of
AND
S. military ready to take that risk?
**Reduces tensions while still maintaining deterrence**
**Chu, ‘06**(2-13, John S., MAJ, US Army, “ Military Exercises in Korea: A Provocation or a Deterrent to War?”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA463339&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf )
Military Exercises: Operational Options and Counterarguments Although
AND
and improving relations with our South Korean ally.
===**Economy DA**=== 
====**1NC**==== 
**Uniqueness—South Korean economy is strong now but downturn is possible**
**Interactive Investor July 1 2010** (“South Korea June exports top forecasts; inflation eases,” [[http://www.iii.co.uk/news/?type=afxnews&articleid=7970684&action=article]]) Calum
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">South Korean exports rose </span>more than expected in
AND
Europe's debt crisis could hit the global economy.
**First, defense spending**
**Jeon, 06** – Colonel of the Republic of Korea Army (Sang Jo, "Transforming the ROK-US Alliance", U.S. Army War College, March 15th 2006, June 25th 2010, p. 2-3,)
USFK’s primary mission is, along with the
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> be enormous—in the billions of dollars.</span>
**Second, growth**
**Jeremy Kirk**, freelance writer in Seoul specializing in Northeast Asia, **1/22/2005**, Asia Times, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/GA22Dg01.html, Nicholas Eberstadt holds the Henry Wendt Chair in Political Economy at the American Enterprise Institute and is Senior Adviser to the National Bureau of Asian Research
South Korea has depended heavily on the United
AND
financially are going to be the young kids."
**South Korea econ collapse shatters US economy and causes war with North Korea**
**Ejaz 6** [Manzur, World Bank Affiliate, Economist Pak Base http://users.erols.com/ziqbal/jan_5.htm]
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">South Korea economic collapse gathered steam </span>when Moody's
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> can have all kinds of national security implications."</span>

==**South Korea On Case**== 
===**1NC Korean War**=== 
**1. No risk of Korean war**
**Meyer 3** (Carlton, Editor – G2 Military, The Mythical North Korean Threat, http://www.g2mil.com/korea.htm)
The chance of a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Korean war is extremely</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> US troops may be gone within ten years.</span>
**2. Zero solvency – North Korea won’t believe the plan**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Morgan 9</span>** (Patrick, Chair in Peace and Conflict Studies – University of California, Irvine, “Considerations Bearing on a Possible Retraction of the American Nuclear Umbrella Over the ROK”, 6-21, http://www.ncnk.org/resources/ publications/Morgan%20Considerations%20Bearing_on_a_Possible_Retraction_of_the_American_Nuclear_Umbrella.pdf)
There are other complications. One would be
AND
the proposed tradeoff even more sensitive and provocative.
**3. Troop withdrawal doesn’t end the tripwire. U.S. nuclear umbrella guarantees escalation**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Bandow 7</span> (Doug, Senior Fellow – Cato Institute and Robert A. Taft Fellow – American Conservative Defense Alliance, “North Korea and Umbrella Proliferation”, National Interest, 2-1, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=13538)**
Maybe the United States and its allies will
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> intervening in a small conflict of limited importance.</span>
**4. Plan Won’t Stop Korean Aggression – their author**
**Hayes 9** (Peter, Professor of International Relations – Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology and Director – Nautilus Institute, “Extended Nuclear Deterrence: Global Abolition and Korea”, Nautilus Policy Forum Online, 12-17, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/09096Hayes.html)
This risk is precisely the primary concern of
AND
changes cannot overcome the trend towards rapid decline.
**5. Turn – appeasement – Korea is fundamentally hostile – plan is a green light for aggression**
**Cortright and Lopez 98** (David, Senior Fellow – Fourth Freedom Forum, and George A., Chair in Peace Studies at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies – University of Notre Dame, “Carrots, Sticks, and Cooperation: Economic Tools of Statecraft”, http://www.fourthfreedom.org/Applications/cms.php?page_id=40)
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">In diplomatic practice, carrots and sticks are</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> appeasement and of encouraging wrongdoing can be diminished</span>.
**6. No automatic nuclear tripwire**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Hayes 9</span>** (Peter, Professor of International Relations – Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology and Director – Nautilus Institute, “Extended Nuclear Deterrence: Global Abolition and Korea”, Nautilus Policy Forum Online, 12-17, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/09096Hayes.html)
Conversely, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">no one should ever </span>assume that
AND
of decision-making time to absurd levels.
====**EXT - No War**==== 
**Not inevitable – Threats are a bluff .**
**Newsweek 8-1-2010.** [North Korea Gets Cooperative, http://www.newsweek.com/2010/08/01/north-korea-gets-cooperative.html]
North Korean leader Kim Jong-il has
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> negotiate a peace agreement and disarm its nukes.</span>
**9. No escalation**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Meyer 3</span>** (Carlton, Editor – G2 Military, The Mythical North Korean Threat, http://www.g2mil.com/korea.htm)
Even if North Korea employs a few crude
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> the rapid collapse of the North Korean army. </span>
**10. Deterrence checks**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Perry 99</span>** (William, Former Secretary of State, “Solving the North Korean Nuclear Puzzle”, 10-12, http://www.isis-online.org/publications/dprk/book/perryrpt.html)
Under present circumstances, therefore, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">deterrence of </span>
AND
lasting goal of U.S. policy.
**11. Won’t go nuclear**
**Korea Herald 9** (“N.K. Nukes for Survival, Not War”, 2-14, Lexis)

<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">North Korea is unlikely to use </span>its
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> contradict that of the conservative South Korean government.</span>
**12. North Korea won’t lash-out**
**Scalapino 98** (Robert, Robson Research Professor of Government, The US and the Two Koreas, p. 36)
Evidence suggests, however, that while quantitatively
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> is the primary goal of the DPRK elite.</span>

**No chance of a revolution. All their impacts are empirically denied.**
**Feigenbaum ‘9** (Evan, Senior Fellow for East, Central, and South Asia – CFR, questioned at Washingtonpost.com, “N. Korea To Boycott Nuclear Talks, Restart Weapons Plant”, 4-19, L/N)
Harrisburg, Pa.: <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">If China fears instability </span>
AND
state, refugee flows, and so on.


====**EXT - Appeasement**==== 
**7. Plan green-lights North Korean attack**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Stevens 3</span>** (Terry C., “Deterring North Korea: U.S. Options”, Comparative Strategy, 22(5), December)
The NIPP Working Group’s analysis indicates that it
AND
is nonetheless one <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">that would lead to war. </span>


===1NC China Relations=== 
**Relations are resilient.**
**Lieberthal 07**, Kenneth: Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and Senior Director for Asia at the National Security Council during the Clinton Administration
[“China’s March on the 21st Century,” http://www.aspeninstitute.org/atf/cf/%7BDEB6F227-659B-4EC8-8F84-8DF23CA704F5%7D/CMTCFINAL052307.PDF]
Second, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the current U.S.-</span>
AND
of engagement that the two countries have developed.
**Alt Cause - Taiwan.**
**Bloomberg 1-14-09**
[“U.S. Arms Sales to Taiwan May Slow ‘New Era’ of Ties With China,” http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=20601087&sid=aRj1K6.PYtqM&refer=home]
Jan. 14 (Bloomberg) -->U
AND
after being defeated by Mao Zedong’s Communist forces.
====**EXT - Relations Resilient**==== 
I**nterdependence checks relations collapse.**
Susan **Shirk 07**, served as deputy assistant secretary for China at the U.S. State Department from 1997 2000.CHINA: FRAGILE SUPERPOWER, 2007,p. 249
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">China started recycling the huge amount of foreign </span>
AND
influence increas­ingly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">depend on decisions made in Beijing</span>.

====**EXT - Alternative Causality**==== 
**South China Sea disputes will either trigger the link or disprove the impact**
**AP** “China: US comments on S China Sea are an 'attack'” The Associated Press, Beijing | Sun, **07/25/2010** [[http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2010/07/25/china-us-comments-s-china-sea-are-039attack039.html]]
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The Chinese foreign ministry </span>on Sunday <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">accused U</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> of confrontations involving vessels from the two countries. </span>
**Human rights.**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">AFP 1-27</span>****-09,** Agence France Presse
[“Obama urged to pressure China on human rights,” http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5iwITejSQDqO89HZcJCL7q12n16EA]
WASHINGTON (AFP) — <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">China poses an</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> languish in prison or are under police surveillance.</span>


==Kritiks== 
===Heroism=== 
====1NC COIN==== 


**The discourse of losing war is a notion that we must continue winners – this is at the root of the heroic narrative that dominates the cultural narrative**
**Creed**, Dissertation for doctorate of philosophy ; Master of Education and Bachelor of Arts, **2009** [Pamela M. “Myth, Memory and Militarism: The Evolution of an American War Narrative” PDF]

Nancy C.M. Hartsock (Hartsock 
AND 
it - the very real horror of war. 



**War creates an unescapable addiction that controls every part of society in order to continue the conflict. This quest inevitably leads to human destruction**
**Hedges, 2002** [Christopher “War is a Force That Gives Us Meaning” Kindle Edition Locations 41-70] 
I learned early on that war forms its own culture. The rush of battle is a potent and often lethal addiction, for war is a drug, one I ingested for many years. It is peddled by mythmakers-historians, war correspondents, filmmakers, novelists, and the state-all of whom endow it with qualities it often does possess: excitement, exoticism, power, chances to rise above our small stations in life, and a bizarre and fantastic universe that has a grotesque and dark beauty. It dominates culture, distorts memory, corrupts language, and infects everything around it, even humor, which becomes preoccupied with the grim perversities of smut and death. Fundamental questions about the meaning, or meaninglessness, of our place on the planet are laid bare when we watch those around us sink to the lowest depths. War exposes the capacity for evil that lurks not far below the surface within all of us. And this is why for many war is so hard to discuss once it is over. The enduring attraction of war is this: Even with its destruction and carnage it can give us what we long for in life. It can give us purpose, meaning, a reason for living. Only when we are in the midst of conflict does the shallowness and vapidness of much of our lives become apparent. Trivia dominates our conversations and increasingly our airwaves. And war is an enticing elixir. It gives us resolve, a cause. It allows us to be noble. And those who have the least meaning in their lives, the impoverished refugees in Gaza, the disenfranchised North African immigrants in France, even the legions of young who live in the splendid indolence and safety of the industrialized world, are all susceptible to war's appeal. Those who make war do so for many reasons, although many of these motives are never acknowledged publicly. The Palestinian uprising was not just about throwing the Israelis out of Gaza and the West Bank, but also about crushing the urban elite, the shop owners and businessmen, in East Jerusalem and Gaza City. The "strikes" organized by the sbabab, the young men who fueled the uprising from the refugee camps, hurt the Palestinian community far more than they hurt the Israelis. In Bosnia it was the same, the anger turned against a Communist hierarchy that kept for itself the privileges and perks of power even as power slipped from their hands in the decaying state. There is little that angers the disenfranchised more than those who fail to exercise power yet reap powerful rewards. Despots can be understood, even tolerated, but parasites rarely last long. War is a crusade. President George W Bush is not shy about warning other nations that they stand with the United States in the war on terrorism or will be counted with those that defy us. This too is a jihad. Yet we Americans find ourselves in the dangerous position of going to war not against a state but against a phantom. The jihad we have embarked upon is targeting an elusive and protean enemy. The battle we have begun is never-ending. But it may be too late to wind back the heady rhetoric. We have embarked on a campaign as quixotic as the one mounted to destroy us. "We go forward," President Bush assures us, "to defend freedom and all that is good and just in the world." The patriotic bunting and American flags that proliferated in the wake of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon were our support for the war mounted against the "axis of evil." Elected officials, celebrities and news anchors lined up to be counted. On Friday, September 14, three days after the attacks, Congress granted the President the right to "use all necessary and appropriate force against those nations, organizations, or persons he determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks." The resolution was passed unanimously by the Senate. There was in the House only one dissenting vote, from Barbara J. Lee, a Democrat from California, who warned that military action could not guarantee the safety of the country and that "as we act, let us not become the evil we deplore." When we ingest the anodyne of war we feel what those we strive to destroy feel, including the Islamic fundamentalists who are painted as alien, barbaric, and uncivilized. It is the same narcotic. I partook of it for many years. And like every recovering addict there is a part of me that remains nostalgic for war's simplicity and high, even as I cope with the scars it has left behind, mourn the deaths of those I worked with, and struggle with the bestiality I would have been better off not witnessing. There is a part of me-maybe it is a part of many of us-that decided at certain moments that I would rather die like this than go back to the routine of life. The chance to exist for an intense and overpowering moment, even if it meant certain oblivion, seemed worth it in the midst of war-and very stupid once the war ended. 

**The alternative is to connect to empathy rather than go to war – we have an individual responsibility to reject war’s myth and accept that our enemies have morals.**
**Hedges, 2002** [Christopher “War is a Force That Gives Us Meaning” Kindle Edition Locations 175-98] 
Before conflicts begin, the first people silenced-often with violence-are not the nationalist leaders of the opposing ethnic or religious group, who are useful in that they serve to dump gasoline on the evolving conflict. Those voices within the ethnic group or the nation that question the state's lust and need for war are targeted. These dissidents are the most dangerous. They give us an alternative language, one that refuses to define the other as "barbarian" or "evil," one that recognizes the humanity of the enemy, one that does not condone violence as a form of communication. Such voices are rarely heeded. And until we learn once again to speak in our own voice and reject that handed to us by the state in times of war, we flirt with our own destruction. And yet, despite all this, I am not a pacifist. I respect and admire the qualities of professional soldiers. Without the determination and leadership of soldiers like General Wesley K. Clark we might not have intervened in Kosovo or Bosnia. It was, in the end, a general, Ulysses S. Grant who saved the union. Even as I detest the pestilence that is war and fear its deadly addiction, even as I see it lead states and groups towards self-immolation, even as I concede that it is war that has left millions of dead and maimed across the planet, I, like most reporters in Sarajevo and Kosovo, desperately hoped for armed intervention. The poison that is war does not free us from the ethics of responsibility. There are times when we must take this poison-just as a person with cancer accepts chemotherapy to live. We can not succumb to despair. Force is and I suspect always will be part of the human condition. There are times when the force wielded by one immoral faction must be countered by a faction that, while never moral, is perhaps less immoral. We in the industrialized world bear responsibility for the world's genocides because we had the power to intervene and did not. We stood by and watched the slaughter in Chechnya, Sri Lanka, Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Rwanda where a million people died. The blood of the victims of Srebrenica-a designated U.N. safe area in Bosnia-is on our hands. The generation before mine watched, with much the same passivity, the genocides of Germany, Poland, Hungary, Greece, and the Ukraine. These slaughters were, as in Gabriel Garcia Marquez's book Chronicle of a Death Foretold, often announced in advance." Hutu radio broadcasts from Kigali called on the Interahamwe in Rwanda to carry out genocide. The U.N. Belgian detachment, however, like the Dutch peacekeepers in Srebrenica, stood by and watched. The radio in Kigali was never shut down. The rampages began. There was never any secret about Milosevic's plans for a greater Serbia or his intent to use force and ethnic cleansing to create it. I wrote this book not to dissuade us from war but to understand it. It is especially important that we, who wield such massive force across the globe, see within ourselves the seeds of our own obliteration. We must guard against the myth of war and the drug of war that can, together, render us as blind and callous as some of those we battle. We were humbled in Vietnam, purged, for a while, of a dangerous hubris, offered in our understanding and reflection about the war, a moment of grace. We became a better country. But once again the message is slipping away from us, even as we confront the possibility of devastating biological or nuclear terrorist attacks in Washington or New York. If the humility we gained from our defeat in Vietnam is not the engine that drives our response to future terrorist strikes, even those that are cataclysmic, we are lost. The only antidote to ward off self-destruction and the indiscriminate use of force is humility and, ultimately, compassion. Reinhold Niebuhr aptly reminded us that we must all act and then ask for forgiveness. This book is not a call for inaction. It is a call for repentance.



====Alternative Debate==== 

**Language is key – it shapes the belief system that makes heroism possible**
**Creed**, Dissertation for doctorate of philosophy ; Master of Education and Bachelor of Arts, **2009** [Pamela M. “Myth, Memory and Militarism: The Evolution of an American War Narrative” PDF] 
Myth, public memory and militarism begin with 
AND 
, our (mis)perception of others.


**It is possible – warmongering can be replaced with empathy**
**Creed,** Dissertation for doctorate of philosophy ; Master of Education and Bachelor of Arts, **2009** [Pamela M. “Myth, Memory and Militarism: The Evolution of an American War Narrative” PDF] 
The horror in experiencing death and perversions during 
AND 
critical reflection by asking themselves: Have we?


**The aff is possible after the alternative – embracing empathy opens the space for rejecting war**
**Poe, 2008** [Danielle “Replacing Just War Theory with an Ethics of Sexual Difference” Hypatia, Volume 23, Number 2, Spring 2008, pp. 33-47 (Article) Published by Indiana University Press, Project Muse] 
In conclusion, just war theory fails because it not only has an overly narrow conception of war but also of war’s costs, which have a negative impact on the very possibility of cooperative relationships between people. Just war theory cannot adequately think through the toll that war takes on what Jane Addams called, “sensitiveness to human life.” Instead of trying to sort just wars from unjust wars, Addams argued for abolition of war, an argument I have pursued here. Bar On provides a viable alternative to war through her concrete recommendations about acting with empathy, recommendations that Irigaray’s emphasis on sexual difference helps foster. An ethics of sexual difference as an alternative to war makes several assumptions about what it means to be human. First, this ethics assumes that humans are at least two. While the differences between humans extend beyond sexual difference and even sexual difference extends beyond male and female, every human is both limited by and connected to others by sex. Second, this ethics assumes that genuinely new relationships between humans are possible. Humans can find new ways to live together by cultivating sexual difference. An ethics of sexual difference demands patience and conscious attention to one’s connections and limits. While some people may reject an ethics of sexual difference because it cannot guarantee results and the successes that it can achieve requires sustained action and sacrifice, the same can be said of war. Wars have never settled conflict nor established anything but a negative peace; they do not establish positive peace. Establishing justice is always an ongoing project, what an ethics of sexual difference offers is a method for establishing justice that treats all means to justice and peace as ends as well. An ethics of sexual difference has meaning in each relationship and each activity, in turn those relationships and activities pave the way to further action.


====Turns Case==== 

**Value to life turns your aff – the quest for fulfillment leads to a language of violence that both the military and our enemies have mastered.**
**Hedges, 2002** [Christopher “War is a Force That Gives Us Meaning” Kindle Edition Locations 93-103] 
Many of us, restless and unfulfilled, see no supreme worth in our lives. We want more out of life. And war, at least, gives a sense that we can rise above our smallness and divisiveness. The weeks after the September i i attacks saw New York City, with some reluctance, slip back to normal. One felt the same nostalgia. The attacks on the World Trade Center illustrate that those who oppose us, rather than coming from another moral universe, have been schooled well in modern warfare. The dramatic explosions, the fireballs, the victims plummeting to their deaths, the collapse of the towers in Manhattan, were straight out of Hollywood. Where else, but from the industrialized world, did the suicide hijackers learn that huge explosions and death above a city skyline are a peculiar and effective form of communication? They have mastered the language. They understand that the use of disproportionate violence against innocents is a way to make a statement. We leave the same calling cards. Corpses in wartime often deliver messages. The death squads in El Salvador dumped three bodies in the parking lot of the Camino Real Hotel in San Salvador, where the journalists were based, early one morning. Death threats against us were stuffed in the mouths of the bodies. And, on a larger scale, Washington uses murder and corpses to transmit its wrath. We delivered such incendiary messages in Vietnam, Iraq, Serbia, and Afghanistan. Osama bin Laden has learned to speak the language of modern industrial warfare. It was Robert McNamara, the American Secretary of Defense in the summer of 1965, who defined the bombing raids that would eventually leave hundreds of thousands of civilians north of Saigon dead as a means of communication to the Communist regime in Hanoi. 


**Don’t evaluate their extinction impacts – accepting the nationalist narrative surrenders the right to self-preservation**
**Hedges, 2002** [Christopher “War is a Force That Gives Us Meaning” Kindle Edition Locations 548-59] 
But these acts also remind us that in wartime most people are unwilling to risk discomfort, censure, or violence to help neighbors. There is a frightening indifference and willful blindness, a desire to believe the nationalist myth because it brands those outside a nation or ethnic group with traits and vices that cannot be eradicated. Because they are the other, because they are not us, they are guilty. Such indifference, such acceptance of nationalist self-glorification, turns many into silent accomplices. To those who swallow the nationalist myth, life is transformed. The collective glorification permits people to abandon their usual preoccupation with the petty concerns of daily life. They can abandon even self-preservation in the desire to see themselves as players in a momentous historical drama. This vision is accepted even at the expense of self-annihilation. Life in wartime becomes theater. All are actors. Leaders, against the backdrop of war, look heroic, noble. Pilots who bail out of planes shot down by the enemy and who make their way back home play cameo roles. The state, as we saw in the Persian Gulf War or Afghanistan, transforms war into a nightly television show The generals, who are no more interested in candor than they were in Vietnam, have at least perfected the appearance of candor. And the press has usually been more than willing to play the dupe as long as the ratings are good. The daily wartime episodes are central to the nationalist vision. The carefully choreographed performances come to define and make up the body politic. The lines between real entertainment and political entertainment blur and finally vanish. The world, as we see it in wartime, becomes high drama. It is romanticized. A moral purpose is infused into the trivial and the commonplace. And we, who yesterday felt maligned, alienated, and ignored, are part of a nation of self-appointed agents of the divine will. We await our chance to walk on stage. 


====AT: Perm==== 

**Perm fails – giving over to the other will either be interpreted as hostility or exploitation to the other**
**Poe, 2008** [Danielle “Replacing Just War Theory with an Ethics of Sexual Difference” Hypatia, Volume 23, Number 2, Spring 2008, pp. 33-47 (Article) Published by Indiana University Press, Project Muse] 
The last component of Bar On’s ethics, which Irigaray’s ethics complements, is hospitality. Hospitality is one of the key elements to an ethics of sexual difference because hospitality involves welcoming of others into one’s space while maintaining one’s identity. Hospitality takes place with the cultivation of breath. When the subject balances exhalation and inhalation, she carries that balance into the relation with the other. Through exhalation and speaking, the subject welcomes the other. Through inhalation and silence, the subject gives the other space to accept or refuse the invitation. One can fail the measure of hospitality in two ways: hostility toward others and allowing the other to overtake the self. The first danger, that the subject is hostile to the presence of another, occurs when a subject narrowly protects herself, her interests, or her loved ones. In this case, the subject views herself as belonging to a world in which her subjectivity has already been defined and the presence of another threatens that subjectivity. The subject jealously guards subjectivity. The second danger happens when the subject interprets hospitality as giving oneself over to the other who approaches her. In this case, the subject hastily gives herself over to the other’s control. Within an ethics of sexual difference, the subject must engage the other through hospitality. The subject in an ethics of sexual difference is always negotiating between the natural and the cultural, the present (which arises from the past) and development, and in order to continue that development she must encounter the other and return to the self. Hallie’s “From Cruelty to Goodness” and Bar On’s example of hospitality reveal how hospitality can be part of an ethics of sexual difference. According to Hallie, hospitality, “lies not only in something negative, an absence of cruelty or of imbalance; it lies in unsentimental, efficacious love” (1981, 26). Hospitality is more than abstract concepts, rules, or beliefs; hospitality is concrete action, it is effective. For the ethics of sexual difference, the concrete opportunities that present themselves are the many ways in which sexual difference presents itself: racial, religious, economic, and cultural. Within each of these manifestations, subjects have the opportunity to collapse the other into someone “like me” or to develop individually and together in peace (Irigaray 2005, 139). If the subject ignores the other, exploits the other, or makes the other into her own image, then hospitality fails. If the other encounters this difference in the spirit of compassion or kindness as outlined above then hospitality is enacted as well. 


**The perm fails – any instance of a nationalist narrative is a refusal to give it up**
**Hedges, 2002** [Christopher “War is a Force That Gives Us Meaning” Kindle Edition Locations 600-617] 
The nationalist myth often implodes with a startling ferocity. It does so after the lies and absurdities that surround it become too hard to sustain. They collapse under their own weight. The contradictions and torturous refusal to acknowledge the obvious becomes more than a society is able to bear. The collapse is usually followed by a blanket refusal, caused by shame and discomfort, to examine or acknowledge the crimes carried out in the name of nationalist cause. By the time British forces had landed on the Falklands and were rolling over the poorly supplied and ill-clad Argentine soldiers, the Argentine public had retreated into a mythic world that was not unfamiliar to Germans in the last days of the Third Reich. There was no hint in the national press that the Argentine forces were being defeated. It appeared that the British were losing the war. When the Argentine forces surrendered it hit the country like a tidal wave. Curiously, it was not that Argentines believed their own propaganda. Many told me that they understood that much what they saw and heard in their own press was a lie. They could tune in the BBC broadcasts. They knew what the British were saying about the war. But they assumed, with a mixture of gullibility and cynicism, that each side was lying. They preferred to pick and choose. They regularly dismissed some of their own propaganda, but not the central message-that Argentina was triumphant. The fall of the islands sent hundreds of thousands of enraged Argentines to the Plaza de Mayo in front of the Casa Rosada in Buenos Aires to demand weapons to fight. Foreign reporters were attacked, their cars overturned and burned. When a group of toughs cornered me in an alley, I was spared when I told them I was German, a fabrication they bought-convinced, I suspect, by my blond hair. All of that rage should have been directed against the government, but instead it was turned on the foreign conspirators who were arrayed against the Argentine nation. Even in defeat, the Argentines could not let go of the nationalist myth. The next morning the government-controlled press began to explain what happened. What happened, it said, was that Argentina had been betrayed by the United States. "We can defeat one superpower," a front-page article read, "but we can not defeat two." And then, in the days after the defeat, the myth suddenly vanished. My Argentine friends picked up where they had left off, as if there never had been a war, as if the collective intoxication was nothing more than a bad dream, a drunken night of debauchery best forgotten and impolitic to mention. One felt dirty to bring it up. I woke up one morning after the surrender and I was no longer a freak. Argentines were again able to grasp reality and respond to it. The junta, whose members should have been imprisoned, especially given the downward spiral that soon beset the economy, was allowed to fade away. No one really wanted to be reminded of the whole affair.


====Agency First==== 

**Questions of agency needs to come first - political actions will overwhelm any attempt to reject the narrative.**


**Creed**, Dissertation for doctorate of philosophy ; Master of Education and Bachelor of Arts, **2009** [Pamela M. “Myth, Memory and Militarism: The Evolution of an American War Narrative” PDF] 
In this study I attempt to capture the 
AND 
their sense of identity, and their lives. 


=Impact Turns= 
==NMD Bad== 
**NMD is a costly and ineffective defense mechanism**
**Daisy Alliance 8** (Daisy Alliance, “NMD – Unnecessary, Ineffective and Provocative,” http://blog.daisyalliance.org/2008/05/16/24/, AD: 7/7/09) AN
Realistically, the NMD is not quite the
AND
ports (i.e. radiation detection).
**NMD destroys NATO and leads to nuclear war**
J.R. **Nyquist** 11/8/**99**; Nyquist is a WorldNetDaily contributing editor and a renowned expert in geopolitics and international relations; “America’s disintegrating global position” WorldNetDaily, http://www.wnd.com/index.php/index.php/index.php/index.php?pageId=6391
On the American side there is no system
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> in the event of a future nuclear conflict.</span>
**National missile defense kills U.S. – Russian relations**
James **Lindsay and** Michael **O’Hanlon –** senior fellows at the Brookings Institution; 12/27/**00;** “Rapid Deployment on Missile Defense Is a Bad Idea” International Herald Tribune; http://www.cfr.org/publication/6296/rapid_deployment_on_missile_defense_is_a_bad_idea.html
Proponents of national missile defense are urging President
AND
Acting resolutely should not mean rushing to failure.
**US-Russian relations are key to avoid global nuclear apocalypse**
Anatoli **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Diakov</span>** September **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">2001</span>**; Diakov is the Director of the Center for Arms Control, Energy and Environmental Studies at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology; “Consultation on NATO Nuclear Policy, National Missile Defence & Alternative Security Arrangements”; Ploughshares, http://www.ploughshares.ca/libraries/WorkingPapers/Simons%20Conf%20Ottawa/Diakov.html
Important agreements that established global norms for all
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">AND</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> international system</span> based on accepted norms and rules.




=**Tournament Intel**= 
==<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;"> Wake Forest </span>== 

===Round 1- Negative vs Lexington (COIN)=== 
1NC- START, Jirga Counterplan, Afghan Politics, Drones DA, Case
2NC - Counterplan, Afghan Politics
1NR - START
2NR - Counterplan, START

===Round 2 - Affirmative vs New Trier=== 
1AC - COIN Wake Forest
1NC - Security, Stick to Timetable CP, Timetable Good
2NC - Security, CP, Specific K turns case on advantages
1NR - Timetable Good
2NR - Security
2AR - Perm Solves + Case
===Round 3 - Negative vs Westminster (South Korea)=== 
1NC - START, Econ DA, BME CP, Prolif DA, Case
2NC - Prolif DA
1NR - Korean War and China Relations
2NR - Prolif DA and Case Defense
===Round 4 - Affirmative VS=== 
1AC - COIN Wake Forest
1NC - Consult Afghanistan, Orientalism, Terror Defense
2NC - Orientalism
1NR - CP, Terror Defense, More Orientalism
2NR - Orientalism
===Round 5 - Affirmative VS New Trier=== 
1AC - COIN Wake Forest
1NC - Security, Recommend to JCS CP, 2011 Good DA, Midterms Dems Good, CMR
2NC - Counterplan, 2011 Good
1NR - Midterms
2NR - 2011 Good
===Round 6 - Negative vs Mcdonogh (Futenma)=== 
1NC - T Substantial, START DA, Case
2NC - T Substantial, START
1NR - Case Defense
2NR - T Substantial
=== ===