[[toc]]

[[2010-2011 — Edina (MN) — Mimi Sergent-Leventhal & Erin Sielaff|Back to Main Page]]


=T/Inherency= 

==1NC - Dowling (vs. Wayzata DM)== 

A. Interpretation – the aff has to be a substantial change from status quo policy – not a reduction based on the hypothetical possibility the U.S. deviates from that policy.

Substantially means real at present time
Words and Phrases 1964 (40 W&P 759) (this edition of W&P is out of print; the page number no longer matches up to the current edition and I was unable to find the card in the new edition. However, this card is also available on google books, Judicial and statutory definitions of words and phrases, Volume 8, p. 7329)

The words “outward, open [...] . App. 308, 318.

B. Violation - 

1. The U.S. is committed to the deadlines now, your aff is the status quo
Los Angeles Times 7/29 (Usama Redha, 7/29/10, " Deadly assault exposes Iraq's delicate state of security ", http://www.latimes.com/news/nationworld/world/la-fg-iraq-mayhem-20100730,0,4501378.story)

Meanwhile, officials say U. [...] cities in June of last year.


=Case Answers= 

==Pre-Emption Answers== 

===1NC - Dowling (vs. Wayzata DM)=== 

No war with Iran
Gilmore 2006 (David, Analyst at Foreign Exchange Analytics, Forex Research, January 18, http://www.global-view.com/research/index.html?nid=4422)

Regarding Iran, I think it [...] a derailing of the global economy.


And strikes won’t go nuclear

Dan Plesch, Director of the School of Oriental and African Studies’ Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy, and Martin Butcher, international consultant on security politics, September 07, “Considering a war with Iran: A discussion paper on WMD in the Middle East”, http://www.scribd.com/doc/282110/Considering-a-war-with-Iran-A-discussion-paper-on-WMD-in-the-Middle-East, umn-rks

The US has strategic forces prepared [...] making nuclear weapons use less likely.


Annihilation of the enemy is critical – failure risks terrorism and violence – history is on our side
Victor Davis Hanson, Ph. D. in Classics, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, a Professor Emeritus at California University, Fresno, “The Paradoxes of American Military Power: Strange new guidelines about the way we fight,” National Review Online, November 17, 2003, http://www.victorhanson.com/articles/hanson111703.html, UK: Fisher

Why? Because we are in [...] he can expect a court martial.


Hardline and a willingness to kill is critical to defeating the enemy – only way to ensure peace in the long-term
Victor Davis Hanson, Ph. D. in Classics, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, a Professor Emeritus at California University, Fresno, “Postmodern War,” City Journal, February 8, 2005, http://www.victorhanson.com/articles/hanson020805.html, UK: Fisher

Victory always sways the heart even [...] : “Just win, baby.”


Hardline policies are necessary to solve terrorism
Alex Epstein, Graduate of Duke University, BA Philosophy, Junior fellow at the Ayn Rand Institute, “Fight the Root of Terrorism With Bombs, Not Bread,” San Francisco Chronicle, August 14, 2005, http://www.aynrand.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=11243, UK: Fisher

The pernicious idea that poverty causes [...] to attack terrorism at its root.


Extinction
Morgan, 9 - Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct)

In a remarkable website on nuclear [...] and suffering in a nuclear winter.


FIRST, No US-Russia war
Thomas Graham, former senior advisor on Russia on the U.S. National Security Council staff, July-September 07, “The Dialectics of Strength and Weakness”, Russia in Global Affairs, http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/20/1129.html, umn-rks

An astute historian of Russia, [...] long-term relations with Russia.


Negotiations check
Colonel General Leonid Ivashov, President of the Academy of Geopolitical Problems. July 2007 “WILL AMERICA FIGHT RUSSIA”. Defense and Security, No 78. LN 

Ivashov: Numerous scenarios and options [...] war and put negotiations into motion.


Russia won’t break relations
Eugene B. Rumer, senior fellow at the Institute for National Strategic Studies at the National Defense University (NDU) and Celeste A. Wallander, director of the Russia and Eurasia Program and the Trustee Fellow at CSIS, Winter 03/04, “Russia: Power in Weakness?”, The Washington Quarterly, http://www.twq.com/04winter/docs/04winter_rumer.pdf

Given Russia’s geopolitical predicament, it [...] balancing the United States’ international position. 



==Deference Answers== 

===1NC - Dowling (vs. Wayzata DM)=== 

No offense – democracy checks back any bad instances of deference
O'Connor 2 – Associate, Steptoe & Johnson LLP; B.A., University of Rochester; M.S.Sc., Syracuse University; J.D., University of Maryland School of Law (John F., Fall, 2000, “The Origins and Application of The Military Deference Doctrine”, 35 Ga. L. Rev. 161, Lexis Law)

Thus, the military cases decided [...] courts are called upon to intervene.


Deference key to military readiness – judicial intervention destroys authority
Crittenden 03 – Judge on Supreme Court of Kentucky (Roger L, 3/5, http://162.114.92.72/opinions/2001-SC-000761-MR.pdf)

As early as 1953, the [...] the legitimacy and authority of command ." 


Readiness key to maintaining hegemony – conflicts go global without it
Spencer 03 (Jack, Senior Defense Policy Analyst @ Heritage, "Focusing Defense Resources to Meet National Security Requirements," 3/21, www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/bg1638.cfm)

Be prepared to fight with little [...] immediately to aggression against America's allies. 


No impact – the military ensures that its policies don’t involve environmental destruction
Green 97 –University of South Carolina, Associate with McNair Law Firm (Tracy Colton, “Providing for the Common Defense versus Promoting the General Welfare: the Conflicts Between National Security and National Environmental Policy,” South Carolina Environmental Law Journal, 6 S.C Envtl. L.J. 137, Fall)

Because the preparation of EAs and [...] in the decision-making process n50


Bioweapons impacts are overstated–their impact evidence is biased by economic and psychological motives
O’NEILL 2004 (Brendan, Spiked Politics, “Weapons of Minimum Destruction,” August 19, http://www.spiked-online.com/Printable/0000000CA694.htm)
So why are we so obsessed [...] is a heavy dose of reality.


Racism - Their moral tunnel vision is complicit with the evil they criticize
Issac 2 (Professor of Political Science at Indiana-Bloomington, Director of the Center for the Study of Democracy and Public Life, PhD from Yale (Jeffery C., Dissent Magazine, Vol. 49, Iss. 2, “Ends, Means, and Politics,” p. Proquest)

As a result, the most [...] . And it undermines political effectiveness.


Alt causes to environment
Bruno, associate professor UNC Chapel Hill, 10 [John F., May 3, “Biodiversity Loss Continues Unabated Despite International Efforts”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/john-f-bruno/biodiversity-loss-continu_b_561699.html] 

Betting on biodiversity loss is a [...] on isolated and seemingly untouched reefs. 


Deference key to military cohesion and readiness—judicial interference kills it
Wilkinson 96 – Chief Judge US Court of Appeals (Thomasson v. Perry, Fourth Circuit, Majority Opinion, 80 F.3d 915, 4/5, http://www.ncgala.org/cases/thomasson.htm, AD)

Aside from the Constitution itself, [...] ] failure." Hirschhorn, supra.


Military effectiveness is key to deter large-scale aggression and prevent conflict escalation
Spencer 03 (Jack, Senior Defense Policy Analyst @ Heritage, "Focusing Defense Resources to Meet National Security Requirements," 3/21, www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/bg1638.cfm)

Be prepared to fight with little [...] immediately to aggression against America's allies. 


Deference key to stop terrorism
Knowles 9 – Acting Assistant Professor, New York University School of Law (Robert, Spring, “American Hegemony and the Foreign Affairs Constitution”, 41 Ariz. St. L.J. 87, Lexis Law)

[*142] The United [...] global system and reduce conflict. n350



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]