=Affirmative= 

For cite requests please email tim.svlad at gmail dot com or rjkyriss at gmail dot com.

===Drones 1AC (LSW)=== 

**Contention one is Inherency**

**Obama has increased use of targeted drone attacks; however, there is little transparency.**
Banks 4/28/10 (William C., Banks is a Board of Advisers Distinguished Professor Syracuse University. “UNMANNED SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY” ebsco, accessed 6/25/10)

Obama ordered more . . . from lawful policy.

**And the attacks are committed in places like Iraq and Afghanistan, fostering instability.**
Thalif 6/30/10 (Deen, UN Correspondent. “Unmanned Drones - Targeted Killing vs. "Collateral Murder” http://www.informationclearinghouse.info/article25849.htm)

When a Pakistani-U.S. national . . . proper trial, he added.

**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce all target killing and assassination forces from the topically designated countries. We’ll clarify.**

**Contention Two is Afghanistan.**

**First, targeted killings destroy Afghan legal credibility**
Hentoff 11/24/09 (Nat, member of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, “Obama’s Extra-Judicial Killers Subvert American Values”, Milford Daily News and www.cato.org, accessed June 25 2010)

As he has now . . . there's a war on?

**That undermines stability.**
Durch 2 (William J., Co Director project on the future of the PKO @ Stimson Cent. “Afghanistan: Keeping the Peace Without Hardly Trying” 

In the Afghan context . . . guaranteed without it. 

**Second, special operations emboldens the insurgency.**
Dressler 9/1/09 (Jeff, Research Analyst at the Institute for the Study of War. “Surge in Afghanistan: A Response to George Will,” The Compass 
The depersonalizing effects . . . its social control tactics. 

What’s really surprising . . . responsibly,” he said.

**This also causes instability and draws the U.S. in.**
Szayna and Oliker 2003 (Thomas S., and Olga, both RAND analysts. “Faultlines of Conflict In Central Asia and the South Caucasus” www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/2005/RAND_MR1598.sum.pdf)

The situation in Afghanistan . . . South Caucasus conflicts.

**And the impact is nuclear war.**
Blank 00 (Stephen J., Exepert on Post-Soviet States @ Strat Stud Inst. “American Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region,” World Affairs. 

Thus many structural . . . settling the situation.

**Contention 3 is Pakistan**

**Drone attacks destroy Pakistani government credibility and increase the risk of Taliban activities on the Pakistan-Afghan border.**
Jones 09’(“Obama's Solution for Pakistan: Missile Strikes from Unmanned Drones”, by Larry Jones, staff writer, The World Can’t Wait, The World Can’t Wait organizes people living in the United States to repudiate and stop the fascist direction initiated by the Bush Regime Tuesday, 03 February 2009 00:46

Three days after . . . think about humanity.

**Removing presence in Afghanistan solves: there are cross border operations from Afghanistan to Pakistan.**
Murphy PhD in Law 10/27/08 (Sean D., Patricia Roberts Harris Research Professor of Law, George Washington University Law School. “The International Legality of U.S. Military Cross-Border Operations from Afghanistan into Pakistan” 

An aspect of . . . low intensity conflict. 

**This includes drones.**
Cherlin, Professor of Public Policy at Johns Hopkins University, 2003 (Andrew J., Contexts, Fall, pp.28-29)

U.S. cross-border . . . jus ad bellum. 

**Pakistani instability results in Indo-Pak nuclear war.**
Morgan 2007 (Stephen John, Former Member of British Labour Party Executive Committee; political psychologist; researcher of Chaos/Complexity Theory, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?” http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639)

Fundamentalism is deeply . . . against the US. 

**And extinction**.
Fai, 2001 (“India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir”, July 8th, 2001. Washington Times.)

**Contention 4 is Virtual War**

**Targeted killing is biopolitical as we replace war with preemption**
Goh ’06 [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006, http://fastcapitalism.com/]

At present, the . . . negotiation with it. 


**Racist movements towards preemption policy is murder – the end result is backlash against the US, nuclear escalation, and proliferation of hidden biopolitical policies.**
Goh ’06 [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006, http://fastcapitalism.com/]

The articulation of . . . all its forms.




**Only removing targeted killings breaks the confines of pre-emption and the state’s control over the right to live or die. The alternative brings about new democratic norms that break out of pre-emption**
Goh ’06 [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006, http://fastcapitalism.com/]


The fact remains . . . than but now.


**Contention 5 is Solvency**

**No risk of turns – drones are the critical internal link to instability, terrorism, and the counterinsurgency.**
Rogan, March 29 2010 (Christopher, army cadet, “INCREASING THE COMBAT POWER OF THE SQUAD ON PATROL: THE POTENTIAL OF THE SOLDIER-PORTABLE DRONE AS A TACTICAL FORCE MULTIPLIER” , accessed June 24 2010)

Nonetheless, it is in . . . than the counterinsurgent.

**And, decentralization prevents their terrorism turns.**
Byman 2006 [Daniel Byman, Byman is a Brookings Institute expert on counterterrorism and Middle Eastern Security He also directs Georgetown University’s Center for Peace and Security Studies, “Do Targeted Killings Work?”, March/April 2006, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/61513/daniel-byman/do-targeted-killings-work, 6/24/2010, K.C.]

These reactions raise . . . no longer possible.

**Additionally the alternative to drones solves better.**
Byman 2006 (Daniel, Ph.D in Political Science, Director for Security Studies Program and for Peace and Security Studies @ Georgetown, Analyst on the Middle East for the U.S. government “Foreign Affairs volume 85 no. 2” p.98)

Assessing whether . . . also tell no tales. 

**We solve globally.**
Jonathan Manes, 6/12/10 (“U.N. and Human Rights Groups Challenge U.S. Use of Drones in Targeted Assassinations”, Manes is a legal fellow with the ACLU National Security project., google, accessed 6/25/10)

During his first 18 . . . label as terrorists.

**And only population centric approaches solve the counterinsurgency.**
Crane et. al 2009 [Keith, Martin C. Libicki, Audra K. Grant, James B. Bruce, Omar Al-Shahery, Alireza Nader,Suzanne Perry, Crane is Director of the RAND Corporation's Environment, Energy, and Economic Development Program, Living Conditions in Anbar Province in June 2008, September 30, http://www.rand.org/pubs/technical_reports/2009/RAND_TR715.pdf]

Iraq’s Anbar Province . . . the people live.

=Negative= 

Our typical neg strategies involve politics (we've been running tax cuts second semester), Consult NATO/Japan, Deterrence, Russia, and case, and on rare occasions cap bad or a K that we think links better. Nothing super fancy from us.