=<span style="font-size: 33px; line-height: 49px;">Affirmative</span>= 

==**Militarism Aff**== 

**Contention One is Significance:**

**Military is an inherently violent and destructive institution**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">PR Watch</span>__**, August 16-23, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">10 </span>__**edition, [[http://www.prwatch.org/node/9331]]</span>

**Thus, we demand the United States federal government remove all military presence from the following countries; Iraq, Afghanistan, South Korea, Kuwait, Japan, and Turkey. We reserve the right to clarify.**

**Contention Two is the Give me Liberty or Give me Death:**

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**Advantage 1 is Society**</span>
**A. The military is our society. It dominates our economy, our entertainment, even our very logic and thinking**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Fogarty</span>__**, Brian E., chair and professor of Sociology at College of Saint Catherine, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">00</span>__**, (War, Peace, and the Social Order, Page 102-103)</span>
**B. Local actions like the plan are key to stopping militarism in our society**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Fogarty</span>__**, Brian E., chair and professor of Sociology at College of Saint Catherine, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">00</span>__**, (War, Peace, and the Social Order, Page 213)</span>
**C. And, small changes solve**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Fogarty</span>__**, Brian E., chair and professor of Sociology at College of Saint Catherine, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">00</span>__**, (War, Peace, and the Social Order, Page 198-199)</span>
**D. Faith in violence only recreates violence. Stopping violence is a D rule, because it is the root cause of all harms**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">MLK</span>__**, Dr Martin Luther King, Jr., The Trumpet Of Conscience, 19**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">67</span>__**, p. 70-71</span>

**Advantage 2 is Kill to Save**

**A. We must reject the Western illusion that we can save humanity by destroying part of it. This mindset justifies the most violent atrocities in history**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Boaventura de **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Santos</span>__**, Prof at Univ of Coimbra, April 200**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">3</span>__**, “Collective Suicide?”, Bad Subjects, Issue # 63</span>
**B. Faith in the idea that we can kill to save only worsens the cycle of violence. Rejecting this idea is an act of nonviolence and recognition of our role as individuals able to make judgment.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Stephen **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Wink</span>__**, Associate at Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton, and Walter Wink, Prof of Biblical Interpretation, Auburn Theological Seminary; Saint Louis University Law Journal, Winter, 1993-19**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">94</span>__**</span>


**Advantage 3 is Militarism**

**A. Militarism creates a world in which violence is celebrated; makes war inevitable.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Bachevich</span>__**, professor of International Relations at Boston University, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">05</span>__** (Andrew, The new American Militarism, page 22-23)</span>
**B. Militarism is the root cause of environmental degradation.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Simon **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Doolittle</span>__**, works on the program for development, Peacebuilding, and the environment at the Political Economy Research Institute at the University of Massachusetts, Spring 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">03</span>__**, "Ten reasons why militarism is bad for the environment"</span>
**C. Biodiversity is key to the globe**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Irish Times 02</span>__** (7/27, LN)</span>

**Advantage Four is Security:**

**A. Language constitutes reality: cold-war rhetoric spurred the violently exclusionary identity of a national security state hell bent on constructing threats to serve political purposes of maintaining power. Our critical self examination of identity creations is crucial to breaking the self fulfilling cycle of national security.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Grondin 2004</span>__** (David Grondin, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 2004, (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17, MT)</span>

**B. The reality created by security imposes deeply embedded hatred for the enemy in all of us which enables violent acts to occur under the guise of less than human enemies. Our enemies are not real, rather creations of our own mind that are sustained by group mentalities that political leaders prey on. This orientation to the world ensures a globe of violence that will inevitably kill us all. We are not innately violent, we can overcome violence.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Mack 1988</span>__** (John E., M.D. an American psychiatrist, writer, and professor at Harvard Medical School. He was a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer. “The Enemy System” 1988.[[http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/passport/enemysystem.html]], MT)</span>

**C. Security is an illusion that has forgotten it is an illusion. Recognizing this and abandoning its logic emancipates us and opens up alternative spaces in the future that can social domination.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Neocleous 2008</span>__** (Mark is a Professor at Brunel University, Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History, he joined Brunel University in the Department of Government in 1994. Since then he has published numerous books and articles. His most recent work has been towards the development of a critique of security. “CRITIQUE OF SECURITY” 2008. Pg. 185-186, MT)</span>

**D. Representations form the basis of what is and what is not thinkable in policy making. Neg arguments should be evaluated on the basis of how it represents foreign policy. Our representation of the world will always create a better outcome than the neg.**
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Jourde 2006</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (Cedric, Ph.D., Political Science, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 2002 * M.A., Political Science, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 1996 * B.Sc., Political Science, Université de Montréal, Montréal, 1995 Hegemony or Empire?: The redefinition of US Power under George W Bush Ed. David and Grondin p. 182-183 2006, MT) </span>

==**Turkey AFF**== 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Observation O</span>____ne__: Inherency**</span>
**US has no plans of withdrawing nuclear weapons in squo**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Arshad **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Mohammed and</span>__** David **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Brunnstrom</span>__**, “US signals its nuclear arms stay in Europe for now,” Reuters, April 22, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">10</span>__** <span class="wiki_link_ext">http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE63L54Q20100422</span></span>
**Plan**
**The United States federal government should withdraw its tactical nuclear presence from Turkey. We’ll clarify.**

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Advantage 1 is Terrorism</span>**</span>

**TNWs in Turkey are vulnerable to terrorist theft and use**
Mustafa **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kibaroglu</span>__**, Department of International Relations, Bilkent University, “A Turkish Nuclear Turnaround,” BULLETIN OF THE ATOMIC SCIENTISTS v. 63 n. 6, November/December 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">07</span>__**, p. 64.

**Incirlik is a target for terrorists—they’re trying to get to the base.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Aslıhan <span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Tümer</span>__</span>, disarmament campaigner for Greenpeace Turkey, 6-8-20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">0<span class="Author-Date"><span style="color: black;">6</span></span></span>__**. [International Network of Engineers and Scientists Against Proliferation, NATO’s Nuclear Sharing and Incirlik, http://www.inesap.org/sites/default/files/inesap_old/bulletin26/art11.htm]</span>

**Even a failed nuclear terrorism attack causes extinction.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span style="font-family: Arial;">Mohamed </span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Sid-Ahmed</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">, Political Analyst for Al-Ahram Newspaper, 20</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">04</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial;"> .“Extinction!” http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htmWhat would be the consequences of a nuclear attack by terrorists? </span></span>

**Advantage 2 is NATO**

**Plan causes NATO collapse**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">McNamara and Spring 10</span>__</span> (Sally and Baker, Director of IR for American Legislative Exchange Council, Heritage Foundation, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/03/President-Obama-Must-Not-Remove-Nuclear-Weapons-from-Europe) </span>

**Scenario one is Imperialism**

**First, the US uses NATO and strong militarism to expand its global imperialist agenda.**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hassan 8</span>__</span> (Ghali, Independent Writer for CounterCurrents, [[http://www.countercurrents.org/hassan250808.htm]])</span>

**Second, US imperialism threatens to throw the world into deepening environmental crisis.**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Foster in 6</span>__</span> (John Bellamy, head of the Dept of Sociology at the UO and editor of the Socialist Review, “Naked Imperialism” [[http://www.zcommunications.org/naked-imperialism-by-john-bellamy-foster]])</span>

**Third, US imperialist practices result in racism, sexism, and violence on the population**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">MOHANTY</span>__ __<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">in 6</span>__</span> (CHANDRA TALPADE, Department of Women’s Studies, Syracuse</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">University, Gender, Place and Culture Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 7–20, February 2006, US Empire and the Project of Women’s Studies: Stories of citizenship, complicity and dissent, [[http://www.uccs.edu/%7Epkeilbac/courses/intlpol/readings/US%20Empire.pdf|http://www.uccs.edu/~pkeilbac/courses/intlpol/readings/US%20Empire.pdf]])</span>

**Scenario two is Central Asia**

**First, increased NATO engagement in Afghanistan is pushing insurgents into Central Asia the region**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ditz 2009</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">, </span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">(Jason Ditz is the managing news editor for Antiwar.com) Anti-War.com “NATO Chief: Afghan Surge Could Drive Taliban Into Central Asia;Will Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan Become Next Battlefronts in Terror War?” [[http://news.antiwar.com/2009/06/24/nato-chief-afghan-surge-could-drive-taliban-into-central-asia/|http://news//.//antiwar.com/2009/06/24/nato-chief-afghan-surge-could-drive-taliban-into-central-asia/]] June 24, 2009</span></span>

**Second, militants are moving into Kyrgyzstan, destabilizing the country and the region**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Cheterian 2010,</span>__** [Vicken, Journalist and Political Scientist, 'Kyrgyzstan: Central Asia's Island of Instability', Survival, 52:5, 21 – 27]</span>

**Third, Kyrgyzstan is uniquely key to regional stability**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Cheterian 2010,</span>__** [Vicken, Journalist and Political Scientist, 'Kyrgyzstan: Central Asia's Island of Instability', Survival, 52:5, 21 – 27</span>

**Fourth, Central Asian instability is the most likely scenario for nuclear war**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Stephen **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Blank</span>__**, professor at the Strategic Studies Institute of the U.S. Army War College. American Grand </span>
Strategy and the Transcaspian Region. World Affairs. Fall 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">00</span>__**, <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-67046851.html</span></span>

**Scenario 3 is Russia**

**NATO has become representative of a European identity that excludes Russia**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Browning 1</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christopher S. Browning Ph.D. Candidate Department of International Relations, University of Wales “The Region-Building Approach Revisited: The Continued Othering of Russia in Discourses of Region-Building in the European North” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.diis.dk/graphics/COPRI_publications/COPRI.../6-2001.doc|www.diis.dk/graphics/COPRI_publications/COPRI.../6-2001.doc]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> )</span></span>

**Nuclear Stockpiles stress US Russia relations, their removal would signal a new era engagement**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Diakov, Miasnikov, and Kadyshev 4</span>__ </span>(Anatoli, Eugene, and Timur, Publication of the Center for Arms Control, Energy and Environmental Studies, Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, Dolgoprudny, 2004) </span>

**Relations key to prevent accidental launch.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">David E. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Mosher</span>__**, Senior Policy Analyst, Expert BMD and Nuclear issues, Lowell H. Schwartz, is an associate international policy analyst, David R. Howell, associate Dean and Professor of Economics and Public Policy, Milano Graduate School of Management Lynn E. Davis, Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security Affairs, “Beyond the Nuclear Shadow: A Phased Approach for improving nuclear safety and US—Russian Relations,” Rand National Security Devision, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">03</span>__**, http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR1666/index.html.</span>

**Accidental launch kills billions**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">PR NEWSWIRE</span>__**, staff, April 29, 19**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">98</span>__**,</span>

**Russia-US war leads to extinction**

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Bostrom 2</span>__ </span>[Nick, Oxford philosophy faculty, “Published in the Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]]</span>

**Observation Three: Solvency**

**First, removing the TNWs from Turkey would restore regional security and remove the terrorist threat.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Aslıhan <span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Tümer</span>__</span>, disarmament campaigner for Greenpeace Turkey, 6-8-20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">0</span>__**<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">6</span>__</span>. [International Network of Engineers and Scientists Against Proliferation, NATO’s Nuclear Sharing and Incirlik, http://www.inesap.org/sites/default/files/inesap_old/bulletin26/art11.htm] </span>

**Second, the U.S. has previously withdrawn nuclear weapons from Europe and the remaining TNWs in Turkey have no operational or strategic value.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Alexandra **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Bell and</span>__** Benjamin **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Loehrke</span>__**, writers for the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists. November 23, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">09</span>__**, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey</span>

**Third, the plan spurs withdrawal throughout Europe**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Bob **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">van der Zwaan</span>__**, Pugwash Council and worksop rapporteur, "Nuclear Weapons in Europe: Time for Disarmament? An International Workshop of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs," Antwerp, Belgium, 21-23 Novebmer 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">08</span>__**, reported 1-12-09, www.pugwash.org/reports/nw/time_for_disarmament.htm,</span>

==**NONVIOLENCE 1AC - NAUDL**== 

__Observation One, Harms: You don’t go out and give the enemy a kiss. You kill them.__

FIRST) Ideologies of aggressive violence, racism, and sexism pervade and underpin our military presence. The military employs and favors violence to solve violence. 
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Sandra **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Withworth</span>__**, Center for International Security Studies, University of Bradford (“A Future for Peacekeeping?”, ed. E. Moxon-Browne, 19**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">98</span>__**, pg. 186)</span>

“It is being revealed at… a kiss. You kill them.”

SECOND) The United States military explicitly and routinely carries out violent orders that result in indiscriminate death. Refusing to carry out these orders results in punishment.
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">__<span style="color: black;">PR Watch</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal;">, August 16-23, 20</span>__<span style="color: black;">10</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> edition, http://www.prwatch.org/node/9331 </span></span>

“Three former American soldiers who… go public about their experiences.”


__Observation Two, Solvency: Fight or Flight: The False Choice.__

FIRST) Claims that violence is inevitable are bankrupt and horribly under-examined. These claims serve only to deny human agency to exist outside of a world of violence and instead ensure that the cycle of violence endures.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="color: black;">Stephen </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Wink</span>__<span style="color: black;">,</span>**<span style="color: black;"> Associate at Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton, </span><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">and</span>__</span><span style="color: black;"> Walter </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Wink</span>__**<span style="color: black;">, Professor of Biblical Interpretation, Auburn Theological Seminary; Saint Louis University Law Journal, Winter, 1993-</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">19</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">94 </span>__</span></span>

“The most fundamental stories of… an outside of the cell.”

Second) The logic of violence relies on an illusion perpetuated that there are no alternatives to saving humanity outside of destroying it in the pursuit of the end of history. Underpinning this cycle is a complete devaluation of any and all humanity in the name of collective suicide.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Boaventura de </span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 11pt;">Santos</span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, Prof at Univ of Coimbra, April 20</span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 11pt;">03</span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, “Collective Suicide?”, Bad Subjects, Issue # 63 </span></span>

“According to Franz Hinkelammert, the West… poorest countries for four years.” 

THIRD) Engaging in the cycle of violence either to violently oppose it or maintain complicity facilitates the façade of its inevitability. Nonviolence provides the methodology to approach domination that transcends the current paradigm and restore humanity to all involved.
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Stephen **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Wink</span>__**, Associate at Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton, **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">and</span>__** Walter **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Wink</span>__**, Prof of Biblical Interpretation, Auburn Theological Seminary; Saint Louis University Law Journal, Winter, 1993-19**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">94</span>__**</span>

“Moreover, the discontented, dissident voices… people of the earth will participate."


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Observation Three is Security: </span>**</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">First, Language constitutes reality: cold-war rhetoric spurred the violently exclusionary identity of a national security state hell bent on constructing threats to serve political purposes of maintaining power. Our critical self examination of identity creations is crucial to breaking the self fulfilling cycle of national security. </span>**

<span style="tab-stops: 176.25pt 188.25pt;">**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Grondin</span>__** 20**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">04</span>__** (David Grondin, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 2004, (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17)</span>


“Approaches that deconstruct theoretical practices… conditions of existence are generated”

<span style="margin-left: .45in;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Second, The reality created by security imposes deeply embedded hatred for the enemy in all of us which enables violent acts to occur under the guise of less than human enemies. Our enemies are not real, rather creations of our own mind that are sustained by group mentalities that political leaders prey on. This orientation to the world ensures a globe of violence that will inevitably kill us all. We are not innately violent, we can overcome violence. </span>**</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mack</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> 19</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">88</span>__** (John E., M.D. an American psychiatrist, writer, and professor at Harvard Medical School. He was a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer. “The Enemy System” 1988.<span class="s2">[[http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/passport/enemysystem.html]]</span>)
“The threat of nuclear annihilation… The threat of nuclear annihilation”
<span style="margin-left: .45in;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Third, Security is an illusion that has forgotten it is an illusion. Recognizing this and abandoning its logic emancipates us and opens up alternative spaces in the future that can end social domination. </span>**</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Neocleous</span>__** 20**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">08</span>__** (Mark is a Professor at Brunel University, Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History, he joined Brunel University in the Department of Government in 1994. Since then he has published numerous books and articles. His most recent work has been towards the development of a critique of security. “CRITIQUE OF SECURITY” 2008. Pg. 185-186)

“The only way out of…enough to return the gift”

Fourth, Representations form the basis of what is and what is not thinkable in policy making. Neg arguments should be evaluated on the basis of how it represents foreign policy. Our representation of the world will always create a better outcome than the neg. 

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Jourde</span>__** 20**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">06</span>__** (Cedric, Ph.D., Political Science, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 2002 * M.A., Political Science, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 1996 * B.Sc., Political Science, Université de Montréal, Montréal, 1995 Hegemony or Empire?: The redefinition of US Power under George W Bush Ed. David and Grondin p. 182-183 2006)

“The next section of this… to deal with this 'other'.”


__Observation Four, Framework: The Art of Love__


FIRST)
We must abandon the notion that ends can justify means in our attempts to achieve peace. Peace is not only an end, but also the //__only__// means to that end. 
<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">MLK</span></span>**,** <span style="layout-grid-mode: line;">Dr Martin Luther King, Jr., The Trumpet Of Conscience, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">19</span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">67</span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">,</span></span> p. 70-71

“Now let me say, secondly, that… means cannot bring about constructive ends.”

SECOND)
Conceptions of war as an event outside of daily life lend themselves to crisis-based politics. This crisis-based politics prohibits the investigation of questions central to understanding and resisting violence. A move away from these conceptions opens up space for more nuanced investigations of violence and pave the way for additional strategies of resistance. 

<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Chris </span><span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cuomo</span>__</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">, assistant professor of philosophy and women's studies at the University of Cincinnati, Hypatia, Fall </span><span class="cite">19__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">96</span>__</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">, v11 n4 p30(16) </span></span>
“Philosophical attention to war has… multiply oppressive, corporate, technocratic states”

THIRD)
Focus on a final utopian stage is irrelevant as it is a mirage. It is in the slow process of daily dissent from dominating paradigms that we embrace humanity and our agency to exist and express in the world.

<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Roland **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Bleiker</span>__**, Coordinator of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at the University of Queensland, “Popular Dissent, Human Agency and Global Politics”, **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">2000</span>__**, pg 281</span>

“Transversal forms of dissent cannot… Transversal forms of dissent cannot”

=<span style="font-size: 33px; line-height: 49px;">Negative</span>= 
== == 
==**Kappeler**== 

**Observation 1 is the Link**
The affirmative cedes the political sphere by asking “what should the government do.” This focus on mega spheres of action limits out any possibility that we would be able to address what we would do if were indeed ourselves. This kills political activism- inculcating a spectator mentality and preventing change, turning the case.
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Kappeler 95</span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">(Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior, Pg.10-11)</span>
“Yet our insight that indeed… values of war and violence. “

**Observation 2: We are the violence:**
We are the violence in the ways in which we ignore our own responsibility and permit violence it to happen. Our everyday actions and thoughts are part of the violence that is ubiquitous through ought our society. 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: black thick;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kappeler 95</span></span>__</span>** (Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior, Pg.9) 
“war does not suddenly break… and we permit them to happen.”

**Observation 3 is what would we do if we were indeed ourselves?:**
The Alternative text is to reject the affirmatives representations and reconcieve of violence as an issue of personal choice made by individuals. 
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">Kappeler 95</span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">(Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior, Pg.5-6)</span>
“A politics aiming at a… the violator’s envisaged victim.” 

XO, START, Kappeler, Case