=Affirmative= 

Japan- St. Marks

**The Plan****:**
The United States<span style="font-family: Times;"> federal government should withdraw to the point of elimination its military presence from Japan. </span>

__<span style="font-family: Times;">Advantage 1: The DPJ </span>__
<span style="font-family: Times;">
Recent Upper House election __jeopardizes the DPJ’s agenda__—the Okinawa issue is the __lynchpin__ of __a crisis in Japanese governance__. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Stars and Stripes 10</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> (An independent news source that operates from inside the United States Department of Defense but is editorially separate from it, <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;">2010</span></span> **(“**Japan election could impede Futenma progress,” Byline David Allen and Chiyomi Sumida, July 14th, Available Online at [[http://www.stripes.com/news/japan-election-could-impede-futenma-progress-1.110973]], Accessed 7/19/10)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Times;">The poor …of Okinawa</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">,” Okada said.</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">
Kan has just kicked the can down the road—tension over U.S. military presence in Okinawa is inevitable. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Xinhua News Agency 10</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">—the official press agency of the People's Republic of China, <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;">2010</span></span> (“U.S. military presence to remain thorn in relations with Japan: experts,” Byline Daisuke Wakabayashi and Yuka Hayashi, July 10th, Available Online at [[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/indepth/2010-07/10/c_13393108.htm]], Accessed 07-19-2010)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Times;">The U.S. ..ongoing global recession</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">
Pressure puts Kan in a __no-win situation__—giving in to the U.S. will __crush the DPJ__. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The Asahi Shimbun 10</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">—the second most circulated newspaper in Japan, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">2010</span></span> <span style="font-family: Times;">(“Japan dumps pier plan, to use reclaimed land for Futenma move,” July 16th, Available Online at [[http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201007150512.html]], Accessed 07-19-2010) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">The deadline …</span><span style="font-family: Times;">visit to Japan in November</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">

U.S. accommodation is __key to save Kan’s administration__—pressure will __decimate the fragile DPJ coalition__. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The Globe and Mail 10</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">—a Canadian English language nationally distributed newspaper, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">2010</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;"> (“Obama’s blunder on Okinawa,” editorial, June 2nd, Available Online at [[http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/opinions/editorials/obamas-blunder-on-okinawa/article1601528/]], Accessed 07-19-2010) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; margin-left: 0in;">President Barack <span class="underline">.,..should be more accommodating</span>. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">

Resolution of the Futenma dispute is key to __effective DPJ coalition-building__—that’s __key to their agenda__. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Kyodo News</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;"> (“Two small parties to form up for Diet session,” July 16th, Available Online at [[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100716a8.html]], Accessed 07-20-2010) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Times;">The Social …within Okinawa</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">. 6:10 </span></span>
[[#_Toc141262825]]<span style="font-family: Times;">- Warming Scenario </span>
__<span style="font-family: Times;">Scenario: Warming </span>__

__<span style="font-family: Times;">First</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">—a strong DPJ is key to __passing climate legislation__.
Risa</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> Maeda and </span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">Chisa</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> Fujoka 10</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">, “Japan aims to pass climate bill by year end Climate talks”, 6-16-</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">; Reporters for Eco-Business.Com,
[[http://www.eco-business.com/news/2010/jun/16/japan-aims-pass-climate-bill-yr-end-un-talks/]] </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Times;">Japan will aim …</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">including COP 16. </span></span>

__<span style="font-family: Times;">Second</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">—domestic action on climate change is key to __bolster Japanese leadership on climate__ – that’s __key to global action__.
Monir Hossain</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> Moni</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">, May </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">2009</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">, “Why Japan’s Development Aid Matters Most for Dealing with Global Environmental Problems”, Asia Pacific Review: Volume 16, Issue 1, Pages 8-36; Ph.D, Graduate School of Asia-Pacific Studies, Professor at the Univresity of Dhaka in Bangladesh, Japan Foreign Policy expert; d/a 7-19; Accessed via Informaworld Journals </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Times;">Environmental ODA …
with global environmental problems</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">
Japan’s green movement spurs it’s global leadership- demonstrations of the country’s commitment through DPJ policies provide modeling for the world </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Holroyd 9( </span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;">ly.</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;"> Asian Perspective </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;">Carin is a graduate</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;"> of the University of British Columbia, Chaminade University of Honolulu and the Japan American Institute of Management Science at Sophia University, Tokyo, and has a Ph.D. from the University of Waikato, New Zealand. NATIONAL MOBILIZATION AND GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT: UNDERSTANDING JAPAN’S RESPONSE TO GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE INITIATIVES. </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">2009</span></span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.asianperspective.org/articles/v33n2-c.pdf]] 7/26/2010 </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Times;">Climate change.., and ecologically, very much a part of an interconnected world. </span> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">
Strong DPJ leadership is key to allow Japan to engage the global community on climate change. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Tanaka 9</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;"> “Japan under the DPJ” Hitoshi, Senior Fellow, JCIE Published by: Tadashi Yamamoto, President, JCIE: Japan Center for International Exchange Japan Center for International Exchange, Inc. (JCIE/USA) www.jcie.or.jp www.jcie.org </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">2009</span></span> <span style="font-family: Times;">[[http://www.jcie.org/researchpdfs/EAI/4-3.pdf]] </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Times;">What effect will the DPJ’s …</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">, and <span class="underline">embark on a new course.</span> </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">
Warming’s irreversible – guarantees extinction. </span>**
Cass R. **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Sunstein</span>**—Professor in the Department of Political Science and at the Law School of the University of Chicago—**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2007</span>** (//Worst-Case Scenarios//, Harvard University Press, p. 176-177) </span>
<span style="margin-right: 0.2in; text-align: justify;">Most worst-case scenarios ……asures than would otherwise seem justified. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">
Prefer our impact—the irreversible nature of climate change dictates that it be prioritized over other concerns. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Mongabay</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">, cites Susan Solomon, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">2009</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;"> (“Many global warming impacts may be irreversible in next 1000 years,” Byline Rhett Butler, January 27th, Available Online at [[http://www.climateark.org/shared/reader/welcome.aspx?linkid=116603]], Accessed 07-22-2010) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; margin-left: 0in;">"<span class="underline">It is …. reached</span>."4:20 </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">ADV. 2 CHINA WAR-
</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">War inevitable by 2017- superweapons implemented if we wait till then
Ergas 2k6</span></span> (Zeki Ergas was a visiting scholar for three years at the Institute of International Studies of the University of California, at Berkeley, [[http://www.stwr.org/the-un-people-politics/globalisation-rising-china-and-declining-america-is-war-inevitable-a-tentative-analysis.html]])
As its title indicates, …. countries that participated
**US withdrawal from Japan would immediately tank relations with China**
**Avery et al, 09**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Emma Chanlett-Avery: specialist in Asian affairs, William Cooper: specialist in international trade and finance, Mark Manyin: spcialist in Asian affairs, Weston Konishi: Analyst in Asian affairs, “Japan-U.S. Relations: Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, Nevember 25, 2009, page 1)
The post-World War II __U.S….__, particularly __China.__ </span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">China perceives the withdrawal as an opportunity to strike the US and become the new hegemon- they want a war and will spark one no matter what- our evidence indicts all your authors </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nyquist 05,</span></span>** renowned expert in geopolitics and international relations, [JR Geopolitical Global Analyst "Recent China Revelations" WeeklyColumn July 1] [ct] [[[http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2005/0701.html|__http://www.financialsense.com__]]<span style="color: #001ee6;">[[http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2005/0701.html|/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2005/0701.html]]</span>]
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline">China’s war ….</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> a real person – and never will be. </span></span>


**A Sino-US war is key to destroying China’s upcoming molecular superweapons- NOW is KEY**
**Navrozov 2010** (Lev, journalist, author and columnist for NewsMax.com, “China Quietly Prepares for World Domination, Newsmax.com, Sep 2, [[http://www.newsmax.com/navrozov/chinarussiasuperweaponsprc/2010/09/02/id/369026]])
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The …. wars would pale in comparison with what China would inflict upon the world.</span>__

**China’s development of superweapons goes beyond the generic nuclear aresenal**
**Schneider 2008** (Mark, Senior Analyst with the National Institute for Public Policy, “The Future of the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,” Comparative Strategy, Vol. 27, Issue 4, July 2008, pp. 345-360, [[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a903312920&fulltext=713240928]])
China's Strategic Nuclear … up to 576 warheads.

**Only Chinese superweapons are capable enough to cause extinction-War Now Is Key To Their Destruction**
**Navrozov 2008** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Lev, journalist, author and columnist for NewsMax.com, “China Wages Stealth War,” Newsmax.com, one of the country’s leading independent news sites, Dec 24, [[http://www.newsmax.com/navrozov/china-superweapons-war/2008/12/24/id/327294]])
I have been buying all books like …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> will prove for the enemy totally unexpected, absolutely unknown, ruling out any possibility for defense. </span>__

**Extinction becomes definite**
**Kastner and Jyh-Perng 2010** (<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Jens, freelance journalist based in Taipei, and Wang, a reserve captain of the Taiwan Navy and associate research fellow at the Association for Managing Defense...greater damage to infrastructure.</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">

</span>
**INSERT NYQUIST AND QUININ CARDS HERE (2)**

.


<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**GREENHILL 1AC**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Contention 1: Inherency</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">**Negotiations between the United States and Japan have reached a deadlock—a massive U.S. military presence in the Prefecture of Okinawa will** **continue** indefinitely.</span>**The Mainichi Daily News**, 07/31<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">/**2010** (“Gov't urged to take steps toward reducing Okinawa's U.S. base burden,” July 31st, Available Online at http://mdn.mainichi.jp/perspectives/news /20100731p2a00m0na002000c.html, Accessed 08-02-2010) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The prospects for reducing ...understanding from Washington. </span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Contention 2 is Advantanges:</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Scenario 1 is Gender Violence</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">The U.S. military occupation of Okinawa has led to constant rape and sexual terror. Withdrawal is key to actualize Okinawan feminism—our methodology precludes nuclear proliferation and achieves perpetual peace.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Drucilla **Cornell**,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> Professor of Political Science, Comparative Literature, and Women's Studies at Rutgers University, **2004** (Defending Ideals: War, Democracy, And Political Struggles, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415948835, p. 115-116) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">In Okinawa, Japan, a ...of perpetual peace. </span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">US presence in Okinawa is an imbalance of power entrenched in exploited gender relations- this reinforces environmental corruption and gender stereotypes</span>****Kirk 08**. “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific” (Gwyn Kirk, Gwyn Kirk is a founder member of Women for Genuine Security. March 14, 2008.) http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific </span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">The imbalance of power ... that reinforce gender stereotypes. </span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">

**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Prolonged military presence during peacetime has given leeway to rape and sexual violence</span>****Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Law- No Date**.<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> “Whose Security Is It? Military Violence Against Women During Peacetime” (Cathleen Caron; Cathleen Caron is a second year J.D. candidate at the Washington College of Law and a Staff Writer for The Human Rights Brief.)</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.wcl.american.edu/hrbrief/v6i3/militaryviolence.htm]]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">When one thinks about ...personnel stationed abroad. </span>

**Despite zero tolerance, forced military prostitution continues on foreign soil****Kirk 08**. “<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific” (Gwyn Kirk, Gwyn Kirk is a founder member of Women for Genuine Security. March 14, 2008.) </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]]</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Military prostitution continues ...during the Vietnam War </span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">US manipulation of criminal jurisdiction ensures US military has control over its own- internal dealings prevent legitimate sentences of convicted perpetrators</span>****Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Law- No Date**. <span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">“Whose Security Is It? Military Violence Against Women During Peacetime” (Cathleen Caron; Cathleen Caron is a second year J.D. candidate at the Washington College of Law and a Staff Writer for The Human Rights Brief.) </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.wcl.american.edu/hrbrief/v6i3/militaryviolence.htm]]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Although SOFAs clearly ...during the vietnam war </span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Maximum sentence for sexual assault on an Okinawan woman has been 6 months, the conviction for US civilian court is at least 5 years</span>****Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Law- No Date**.<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> “Whose Security Is It? Military Violence Against Women During Peacetime” (Cathleen Caron; Cathleen Caron is a second year J.D. candidate at the Washington College of Law and a Staff Writer for The Human Rights Brief.) </span>
<span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.wcl.american.edu/hrbrief/v6i3/militaryviolence.htm]]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">A U.S. newspaper, ...five years incarceration. </span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">This sexual violence is equivalent to gendered warfare—it causes incalculable suffering and affects entire communities.</span>****Chowdhury 2**—<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">works in a domestic abuse help office (Rumana, “Kadic v Karadzic – rape as a crime against women as a class” 20 Laq & Ineq J 91) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Feminist scholars have long ...traditionally received. </span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Patriarchal inclinations guarantee extinction—recognizing a new anti military presence framework of thought dismantles oppression and there is an ethical obligation to withdraw--rape is the worst violation of women's rights, it destroys any hope for her agency</span>****Warren and Cady 94** <span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">(Karen J, Duane L, feminists and authors, Hypatia, “Feminism and Peace: Seeing connections,” pg 16-17) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Much of the current "unmanageability" ...national, and global contexts </span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">The Okinawan struggle is symbolic of the broader struggle against patriarchal social order that causes suffering and rape—embracing the aff as a protest opens up space for new structures to emerge.</span>****Tanji 6**—<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Research Fellow, CASAAP, Curtin University, PhD (Murd) (Miyume, © 2006, “Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa”, Routledge, RBatra) p. 151-2 </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">As shown by studies on ...at the community level. </span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Advantage 2 is Environmental Destruction:</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">The planned Futenma Replacement Facility will decimate the natural environment—U.S. military presence will be the death knell of one of the world’s most sacred ecosystems.</span>****The Center for Biological Diversity**—a national, nonprofit conservation organization with more than 240,000 members and online activists dedicated to the protection of endangered species and wild places, et al., co-signed by representatives of conservation, animal protection, and peace and justice groups representing more than 10 million Americans, 2009 (“RE: Proposed U.S. Military Air Base Expansion Near Henoko, Okinawa,” Letter To The Obama Administration, December 3rd, Available Online at http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/species/mammals/Okinawa_dugong/pdfs/dugongletter.pdf, Accessed 07-26-2010) </span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The island of Okinawa ...and years to come. </span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Deforestation, water depletion, toxic dumping, and the depletion of biological diversity are only few of the many environmental corruption problems in Okinawa due to the Futenma military base</span>****//<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">Shaw 03</span>//**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> **(**Jeff, award-winning environmental journalist whose work has appeared in publications including The Nation and The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, “Okinawan sea life likely to suffer under Navy sonar deal,” http://www.grist.org/article/the22/)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Overall, Okinawa’s environmental ..missing from Okinawa. </span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Okinawa is the key internal link to global biodiversity – supports thousands of marine species- preservation of the biosphere is key</span>****//<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">Shaw 03</span>//**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jeff, award-winning environmental journalist whose work has appeared in publications including The Nation and The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, “Okinawan sea life likely to suffer under Navy sonar deal,” http://www.grist.org/article/the22/)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">"The waters off of ..over the brink to extinction </span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Continued depletion will make extinction inevitable—there’s an invisible threshold.</span>****Diner**, Major in the Judge Advocate General's Corps of the United States Army, **1994** (David N; “The Army And The Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?,” Military Law Review (143 Mil. L. Rev. 161), Winter, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis) </span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">4. Biological Diversity. ...edging closer to the abyss </span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">This is particularly true in the Okinawa scenario—healthy ocean ecosystems are key to human survival.</span>****Craig**, Associate Professor of Law at the Indiana University School of Law, **2003** (Robin Kunids; “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii,” McGeorge Law Review (34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155), Winter, Available Online via Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis) </span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Biodiversity and ecosystem ...is not necessarily unique </span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Tolerating the destruction of this ecosystem saps us of our humanity—it makes global nuclear war and human extinction inevitable.</span>****Bookchin**, co-founder of the Institute of Social Ecology, **1987** (Murray; "An Appeal For Social and Psychological Sanity," The Modern Crisis, Published by Black Rose Books Ltd., ISBN 0920057624, p. 106-108) </span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Industrially and technologically...green and living world. </span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">This outweighs their disads—it is the root cause of all violence.</span>****Cuomo**,<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cincinnati, **1996** (Chris J; “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” Hypatia, Volume 11, Number 4, Fall, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via JSTOR, p. 41-42) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The feminization, commodification...institutions and practices </span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Thus the plan:</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">The United States federal government should withdraw to the point of elimination its military presence in the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Contention 3 is Solvency </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">I**nternational treaties including SOFA don’t solve- jurisdiction prevents trials of convicted US military personnel, spurs endless cycle of violence Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Law- No Date.**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> **“**Whose Security Is It? Military Violence Against Women During Peacetime” (Cathleen Caron; Cathleen Caron is a second year J.D. candidate at the Washington College of Law and a Staff Writer for The Human Rights Brief.) </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.wcl.american.edu/hrbrief/v6i3/militaryviolence.htm]]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The United States ..for the same crime </span>

</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Continued U.S. military presence on Okinawa has no strategic value—the case outweighs their security DA.</span>****Network For Okinawa, a project of the Institute For Policy Studies, 2010** (“Network for Okinawa’s Statement on Current Situation with U.S. Base Relocation,” June 14th, Available Online at http://closethebase.org/2010/06/14/network-for-okinawas-statement-on-current-futenma-situation/, Accessed 07-26-2010)
<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The U.S. Marine Corps ..buildup in guam</span></span>

=Negative= 

**Midterms 1NC**

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Democrats will lose both houses – even independents are voting conservative</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Galston 8/16/2010 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[William, senior fellow at the brookings institute, “obamas democratic domination is over,” Financial Times] </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Plan gets the public on board for democrats </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Tago, Professor of Int’l Politics, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Atsushi, PhD in Advanced Social and Int’l Studies. Associate Prof of Int’l Politics, Grad School of Law, Kobe University, Japan, When Are Democratic Friends Unreliable? The Unilateral Withdrawal of Troops from the `Coalition of the Willing', Journal of Peace Research, JSTOR </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Even small changes can swing the election </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Cillizza 6-21 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Chris, Are liberals falling out of love with Obama?, Washington Post, Proquest </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">GoP win creates a perception of gridlock – key to the economy </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Panteli 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Chris, 3-15, Wirtz eyes US capital market rally after mid-term elections, Investment Week, DA 7-16-2010, [[http://www.investmentweek.co.uk/investment-week/news/1596324/wirtz-eyes-us-capital-market-rally-mid-term-elections]] </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Economic growth is key to avoid global conflict </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Earl </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Tilford</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, PhD in history from George Washington University and served for thirty-two years as a military officer and analyst with the Air Force and Army, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, “Critical Mass: Economic Leadership or Dictatorship,” The Cedartown Standard, Lexis </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Global economic collapse causes extinction </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Thomas Bearden</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> **2000**</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, [Association of Distinguished American Scientists and LTC, U.S. Army (Retired), 2000 ("The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly", [[http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm]]) )]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;"> China Scenario 1NC </span>

**China Modernization Inevitable- TMD Key to Protect Asian Stability**
**May 2K** (Greg May is a writer for <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Nixon Center, //from the February 2000 issue of Foresight magazine.The Nixon Center// </span>is a Washington, D.C.-based public policy think tank. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“China's Opposition to TMD Is More About Politics Than Missiles.” </span>September 22, 2010. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.bu.edu/globalbeat/usdefense/May0200.html]].)
Because TMD is so… growing dissatisfaction with the U.S. "hegemony". </span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;"> Japan Econ DA 1NC </span> </span>

**Japan’s economy is picking up, but it’s very fragile.**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">White 5/24</span></span>** (Stanley, journalist for Reuters, [http://in.reuters.com/article/idINTKU10603520100524] AD: 6/22/10)JM
TOKYO, May 24 (Reuters) - <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Japan's economy is picking up steadily but</span></span> Europe's debt crisis, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">wild swings in financial markets and deflation pose risks to its outlook…</span></span> to lose support from government stimulus measures. </span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan being a protectorate of the US is empirically critical to growth – a change from squo threatens economic success </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Carpenter 95</span></span>** (Ted Galen, Director of Foreign Policy Studies @ CATO inst., CATO Inst. Policy Analysis no. 244, http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-244.html) JG
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Japan's reaction to U.S. military…combat operations.</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japanese econ decline collapses the US econ- forced further into debt, security revenue gone </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Auslin 9 </span></span>**[Michael Resident Scholar at American Enterprise Institute, February 17, Wall Street Journal http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123483257056995903.html]
Recently, many economists and..<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">under the U.S. economy. </span></span></span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">US economic collapse causes nuclear war </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cook 7 </span></span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Richard C., Writer, consultant, and retired federal analyst in U.S. Treasury Dept.; “It’s Official: The Crash of the U.S. Economy has begun,” Global Research, June 14. Accessed: </span>[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index/php?context=va&aid=5964]]<span style="font-size: 10pt;">]</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Times of economic crisis … a few nukes?</span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 16px; text-decoration: none;"> Allied Prolif 1NC </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> **Status quo threats don’t cause nuclearization – breakdown in the umbrella will – leads to prolif**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Barnaby 9** </span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin-right: -63pt;"> Frank. Nuclear physicist and consultant to the Oxford Research Group on nuclear issues. 5/14/9. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://scitizen.com/stories/future-energies/2009/05/Will-Japan-react-to-North-Korea-s-missile-and-nuclear-programmes/]]</span>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in -63pt 0in 0in;"> <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Japan has the technical means to build advanced nuclear weapons within months. Whether or not it does so will depend on the political judgment of Japan’s ruling elite…. The consequences for global security would indeed be severe.</span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> **Withdrawal from Japan signals an end to allied assurance – sends signal of weakness to key Asian allies**
**Auslin 10**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin-right: -63pt;"> Michael, AEI Fellow, U.S.-Japan Relations: Enduring Ties, Recent Developments, House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and the Global Environment, http://www.aei.org/speech/100130</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in -63pt 0in 0in;"> <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Despite this litany of problems both real and perceived, the U.S.-Japan alliance, and the broader relationship it embodies, remains the keystone of U.S. policy in the Asia-Pacific region…</span></span>. Japan from a more regionally oriented perspective, taking into account how our alliance affects the plans and perceptions of other nations in the region.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin-right: -63pt;"> **Japanese rearm causes South Korea to proliferate to keep up and Japan to become more aggressive, insures nuclear conflict over control of the Senkaku Islands, the division of Korea, or Taiwan**
Dr. David **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Robinson</span></span>**, prof @ Edith Cowan University Why the West should Discourage Japanese Military Expansion Mar 29,**2010** accessed July 16, 20<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span> www.japss.org/upload/10.robinson.pdf </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in -63pt 0in 0in;"> Japan’s Self-Defense Force is already considered a powerful regional force…<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> develop </span></span>[Matthews, 2003, p81]. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin-right: -63pt;"> **<span class="tagChar">Japanese rearm freaks out all neighboring countries—causes East Asian arms race and instability that escalates war </span>**
Stephanie **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lieggi</span></span>**, is a Research Associate at the CNS East Asia Nonproliferation Program <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span></span> Mark <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wuebbels</span></span> works in East Asia Nonproliferation Program Center for Nonproliferation Studies (CNS), East Asia Nonproliferation Program Will Emerging Challenges Change Japanese Security Policy?December 20**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span></span>** accessed July 17,2010 http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_37a.htmlDonnie </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in -63pt 0in 0in;"> As security dynamics in East Asia evolve, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Japanese defense… of insecurity and conflict.</span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Jungle PIC 1NC</span>**</span>
**The United States federal government should renegotiate the Agreement Between the Government of Japan and the Government of the United States of America Concerning the Implementation of the Relocation of III Marine Expeditionary Force Personnel and Their Dependents from Okinawa to relocate non- Jungle Warfare Training Center United States Marine Corps presence from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.**

**Okinawa’s JWTC is the only jungle warfare training center in the world – key to contingency training**
Ryan D. **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Libbert</span></span>**, Marine Corporal, 2-22-**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span></span>**, “Okinawa’s jungle premiere training,” Global Security, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2004/02/mil-040222-mcn01.htm
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Marines serving on Okinawa…</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> skills to keep this place strong."</span>

**US jungle war training is key to fight drug trafficking in Colombia – solves regional instability and Latin American democracy**
Lieutenant Colonel Thomas J. **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Comodeca</span></span>** United States Army THE NEED FOR SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES INVOLVEMENT IN THE ANDEAN REGION’S COUNTER DRUG EFFORTS April 7, **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2003 </span></span>**accessed July 31, 2010 http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA415480//Donnie
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The US must continue to use SOFs…stability in the Andean Region while protecting democracy in the region today. </span></span>

**Failure of Latin American democratization causes regional proliferation and nuclear conflict**
Donald **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schulz</span></span>**, Chairman of the Political Science Department at Cleveland State University, March **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span></span>**, The United States and Latin America: Shaping an Elusive Future, p. 3&26-28, http://stinet.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA375197&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">\In short, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">democracy and economic integration…</span></span>i<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">n the hemisphere</span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;"> Myanmar Scenario 1NC</span>
**Economic ties prevent war**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">UPI 2005</span></span>** /2-9, Lexis/
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="UnderlineCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The economic …against China. </span></span></span>

**Mutual interests eliminate the possibility of Sino-India war**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shihai 2002</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> /Sun, Institute of Asia-Pacific Studies, CASS, China-Indian Relations in the 21st Century, 9-7) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Firstly, <span class="UnderlineCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The development of… conflict does not exist.</span></span></span>

**Conflict won’t go nuclear**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shihai 2002</span></span> /**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Sun, Institute of Asia-Pacific Studies, CASS, China-Indian Relations in the 21st Century, 9-7/ </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">It cannot say that China has…<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> are not big enough to have a war, not to say a nuclear exchange.</span></span></span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Economy Scenario 1NC</span>**

No risk of Greek-style collapse – domestic ownership of debt
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Akahata 7-13</span> </span>
Japan: What Lessons Can be Drawn From Greek Fiscal Crisis?, Political Affairs, Lexis
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">“If Japan continues to follow… offered them up for sale all at once</span></span>.

Japan economy resilient – bouncing back, and still has best technology
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cowie ’10 - </span></span>(Ian Cowie, Head of Personal Finance at Telegraph Media Group, March 14th, 2010, “Will Japan finally shine again?”, Lexis Nexis Academic, accessed 7/16/10)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">No fewer than 14 of the top 20 performers….</span>
2009, according to Trustnet, and UK All Companies delivered 30pc, with North America and Europe notching up 19pc, the average Japan fund fell by nearly 4pc.

Japan economy not key to sustain global economy
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Business Times Singapore 7/4/10 </span></span>– (The Business Times Singapore, “Grounds for caution amid rapid growth”, July 14th, 2010, Lexis Nexis Academic, accessed 7/17/10)
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">ONE of the big surprises in the.. to a lesser extent, sustained domestic consumption.</span></span>