[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Drones 1AC (LSW)== 



**Contention 1 is Inherency**

**Obama has increased use of targeted drone attacks; however, there is little transparency.**
Banks 4/28/10 (William C., Banks is a Board of Advisers Distinguished Professor Syracuse University. “UNMANNED SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY” ebsco, accessed 6/25/10)

Obama ordered more . . . from lawful policy.

**And the attacks are committed in places like Iraq and Afghanistan, fostering instability.**
Thalif 6/30/10 (Deen, UN Correspondent. “Unmanned Drones - Targeted Killing vs. "Collateral Murder” http://www.informationclearinghouse.info/article25849.htm)

When a Pakistani-U.S. national . . . proper trial, he added.

**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce all targeted killing and assassination forces from the topically designated countries. We’ll clarify.**

**Contention 2 is Afghanistan.**

**First, targeted killings destroy Afghan legal credibility**
Hentoff 11/24/09 (Nat, member of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, “Obama’s Extra-Judicial Killers Subvert American Values”, Milford Daily News and www.cato.org, accessed June 25 2010)

As he has now . . . there's a war on?

**That undermines stability.**
Durch 2 (William J., Co Director project on the future of the PKO @ Stimson Cent. “Afghanistan: Keeping the Peace Without Hardly Trying”

In the Afghan context . . . guaranteed without it.

**Second, special operations emboldens the insurgency.**
Dressler 9/1/09 (Jeff, Research Analyst at the Institute for the Study of War. “Surge in Afghanistan: A Response to George Will,” The Compass
The depersonalizing effects . . . its social control tactics.

What’s really surprising . . . responsibly,” he said.

**This also causes instability and draws the U.S. in.**
Szayna and Oliker 2003 (Thomas S., and Olga, both RAND analysts. “Faultlines of Conflict In Central Asia and the South Caucasus” www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/2005/RAND_MR1598.sum.pdf)

The situation in Afghanistan . . . South Caucasus conflicts.

**And the impact is nuclear war.**
Blank 00 (Stephen J., Exepert on Post-Soviet States @ Strat Stud Inst. “American Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region,” World Affairs.

Thus many structural . . . settling the situation.

**Contention 3 is Pakistan**

**Drone attacks destroy Pakistani government credibility and increase the risk of Taliban activities on the Pakistan-Afghan border.**
Jones 09’(“Obama's Solution for Pakistan: Missile Strikes from Unmanned Drones”, by Larry Jones, staff writer, The World Can’t Wait, The World Can’t Wait organizes people living in the United States to repudiate and stop the fascist direction initiated by the Bush Regime Tuesday, 03 February 2009 00:46

Three days after . . . think about humanity.

**Removing presence in Afghanistan solves: there are cross border operations from Afghanistan to Pakistan.**
Murphy PhD in Law 10/27/08 (Sean D., Patricia Roberts Harris Research Professor of Law, George Washington University Law School. “The International Legality of U.S. Military Cross-Border Operations from Afghanistan into Pakistan”

An aspect of . . . low intensity conflict.

**This includes drones**.
Cherlin, Professor of Public Policy at Johns Hopkins University, 2003 (Andrew J., Contexts, Fall, pp.28-29)

U.S. cross-border . . . jus ad bellum.

**Pakistani instability results in Indo-Pak nuclear war.**
Morgan 2007 (Stephen John, Former Member of British Labour Party Executive Committee; political psychologist; researcher of Chaos/Complexity Theory, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?” http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639)

Fundamentalism is deeply . . . against the US.

**And extinction.**
Fai, 2001 (“India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir”, July 8th, 2001. Washington Times.)

**Contention 4 is Virtual War**

**Targeted killing is biopolitical as we replace war with preemption**
Goh ’06 [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006, http://fastcapitalism.com/]

At present, the . . . negotiation with it.

**Racist movements towards preemption policy is murder – the end result is backlash against the US, nuclear escalation, and proliferation of hidden biopolitical policies.**
Goh ’06 [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006, http://fastcapitalism.com/]

The articulation of . . . all its forms.

**Only removing targeted killings breaks the confines of pre-emption and the state’s control over the right to live or die. The alternative brings about new democratic norms that break out of pre-emption**
Goh ’06 [Irving, Fellow @ Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1 2006, http://fastcapitalism.com/]

The fact remains . . . than but now.

**Contention 5 is Solvency**

**No risk of turns – drones are the critical internal link to instability, terrorism, and the counterinsurgency.**
Rogan, March 29 2010 (Christopher, army cadet, “INCREASING THE COMBAT POWER OF THE SQUAD ON PATROL: THE POTENTIAL OF THE SOLDIER-PORTABLE DRONE AS A TACTICAL FORCE MULTIPLIER” , accessed June 24 2010)

Nonetheless, it is in . . . than the counterinsurgent.

**And, decentralization prevents their terrorism turns.**
Byman 2006 [Daniel Byman, Byman is a Brookings Institute expert on counterterrorism and Middle Eastern Security He also directs Georgetown University’s Center for Peace and Security Studies, “Do Targeted Killings Work?”, March/April 2006, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/61513/daniel-byman/do-targeted-killings-work, 6/24/2010, K.C.]

These reactions raise . . . no longer possible.

**Additionally the alternative to drones solves better.**
Byman 2006 (Daniel, Ph.D in Political Science, Director for Security Studies Program and for Peace and Security Studies @ Georgetown, Analyst on the Middle East for the U.S. government “Foreign Affairs volume 85 no. 2” p.98)

Assessing whether . . . also tell no tales.

**We solve globally.**
Jonathan Manes, 6/12/10 (“U.N. and Human Rights Groups Challenge U.S. Use of Drones in Targeted Assassinations”, Manes is a legal fellow with the ACLU National Security project., google, accessed 6/25/10)

During his first 18 . . . label as terrorists.

**And only population centric approaches solve the counterinsurgency.**
Crane et. al 2009 [Keith, Martin C. Libicki, Audra K. Grant, James B. Bruce, Omar Al-Shahery, Alireza Nader,Suzanne Perry, Crane is Director of the RAND Corporation's Environment, Energy, and Economic Development Program, Living Conditions in Anbar Province in June 2008, September 30, http://www.rand.org/pubs/technical_reports/2009/RAND_TR715.pdf]

Iraq’s Anbar Province . . . the people live.

==Contractors 1AC (NFL quals)== 


**Contention 1 is Inherency**

**The use of Private Military Contractors is on the rise--Obama's doing nothing to stop it**
Lendman 10 (http://dissidentvoice.org/2010/01/outsourcing-war-the-rise-of-private-military-contractors-pmcs/, January 20th 2010)

In 2002, under . . . war on terror.

**PLAN: The United States federal government should discontinue the use of private military contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan. We’ll clarify.**

**Contention 2 is Iraq**

**First – there are still combat troops in Iraq. While US combat forces are being removed from Iraq, the use of private military forces is increasing.**
Matthews 10 [07/12/10, William Matthews. Congress Homeland Security Reporter Defense News. “U.S Contractor Use in Iraq Expected to Rise.” http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=4704826&c=MID&s=TOP

As the U.S. . . . of next year.

**And private military forces in Iraq commit acts of violence that undermine US credibility and breed counterinsurgencies and anti-Americanism.**
Schulman 10 (Daniel, Mother Jones' Washington-based news editor, “Are Contractors Undermining US War Efforts?”) January 21, 2010 http://motherjones.com/mojo/2010/01/are-contractors-undermining-us-war-efforts 

The CRS report . . . killings took place. 

**Next, Iraq is falling apart and turning away from democracy now.**
Dajani 10 (Jamal Dajani, VP of International News, Series Producer of Mosaic News, Link TV. Huffington Post. Posted: Mar 19, 2010, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jamal-dajani/iraq-elections-but-no-sta_b_505674.html)

With close to 90% . . . searching for stability.

**We’ll isolate two internal links to Iraqi stability—**

**The first is popular support. PMCs alienate Iraqis.**
Wallace 9 (David A. Wallace, Colonel, publication of the Defense Acquisition University, “THE FUTURE USE OF CORPORATE WARRIORS WITH THE U.S. ARMED FORCES: LEGAL, POLICY, AND PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS AND CONCERNS” July 2009) http://www.dau.mil/pubscats/PubsCats/Wallace.pdf

A fourth concern . . . the military (Mulrine, 2007).

**Second, government legitimacy— incidents like Abu Ghraib are a direct threat to the ability to the government to form credible coalitions. PMCs undermine the legitimacy of the Iraqi government.**
Schwartz, 10- *Specialist in Defense Acquisition (Moshe, “The Department of Defense’s Use of Private Security Contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan: Background, Analysis, and Options for Congress,” June 22nd, 2010, Congressional Research Service, Lexis)

According to many . . . actions of PSCS. 

**And, continued violence would send Iraq into a civil war**
Bazzi 5 (Mohammad Bazzi writer for new york news times, May 23, 2005 A violent circle in iraq http://www.commondreams.org/headlines05/0523-02.htm)

The signs of . . . against Shia institutions. 

**Next, eliminating PMCs ensures that Iraqi security forces fill in and make Iraq stable**
Towery, 6 – Colonel for the US Army (Bobby A., “Phasing Out Private Security Contractors in Iraq,” 14 March 2006, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/ksil520.pdf)

The Improving Security . . . Kellogg, Brown, and Root (KRB).

**There are two impacts-**
**First is the economy- Broader Iraqi civil war draws in the whole region and would destabilize the world economy.**
Fahim ’05 (Ashraf, Aug 20, 2005, “Iraq at the gates of hell,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/GH20Ak01.html)

Given all this grist . . . all the oil is). 

**This culminates in a global nuclear war.**
Mead 09 (Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, New Republic, February 4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]

So far, such . . . have to fight.

**And, the Iraqi instability spills over to a Middle East war**
Stannard 6 (Matthew Stannard 2006 “Military's dilemma -- stay or leave; Iraq too complex to lend itself to easy solutions, experts say”, The San Francisco Chronicle, l/n 12/3)

"If we just . . . back" there again.

**This leads to a nuclear war – a Middle East war is the most likely place for a nuclear war to occur**
Steinbach 2002 (John, Israeli Nuclear weapons: a threat to piece, 3/3 http://www.converge.org.nz/pma/mat0036.htm)

Meanwhile, the existence . . . a world conflagration." 

**Contention 3 is Afghanistan**

**First, the number of PMCs in Afghanistan is increasing—causes civilian backlash and hurts U.S. security objectives**
HRF, 6-18 Human Rights First, Human Rights Watch Group based in D.C., “Group Urges Commission to Advance Accountability for Private Military Contractors, Protect Civilians in Iraq and Afghanistan,” June 18th 2010, http://www.humanrightsfirst.org/media/usls/2010/alert/624/

Washington, DC – Human . . . the U.S. mission." 

**And, preventing civilian casualties is critical to cut off the Taliban’s support base, preventing resurgence**
Jones, ’07 [Seth G. Jones, Ph.D. and M.A. in political science, University of Chicago; A.B., Bowdoin College, “Afghanistan's Local Insurgency”, 1-31, http://www.rand.org/commentary/013107IHT.html]

The rising violence . . . of the insurgency.

**Lack of local support means our counter-insurgency strategy will fall in Afghanistan**
Khan, ’09 [Daud Khan, A Afghan political analyst and a journalist based in Afghanistan (“US Winning Afghans' Hearts and Minds?” 

Now, the US administration . . . are ready to talk.

**Taliban resurgence to capture Kandahar and Afghanistan instability will collapse Pakistan – Causes fundamentalist takeover and escalating global nuclear conflict**
Morgan, ’07 [Stephen Morgan, Former British Labour Party Exectutive Committee Member, Political Psychologist, 3/4/2007 [Stephen, ""Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?"," http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]

However events may . . . and the world.

**And, Pakistan coup leads India to preempt Pakistan and extremist takeover in Saudi Arabia and Egypt**
Ricks, ’01 [Thomas E. Ricks, Washington Post Staff Writer, “At Pentagon: Worries Over War's Costs, Consequences; Some Fear Regional Destabilization, Retribution Against U.S.,” 10-21, Lexis]

The prospect of . . . and International Studies.

**Next, takeover of Saudi Arabia cuts off their oil supply**
Cohen, ’06 [Ariel, heritage’s finest, “reducing US dependence on middle eastern oil” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Features/NationalSecurity/bg1926.cfm 4/7]

Even more frightening . . . could not be ruled out.

**The impact is extinction.**
Riddoch, ’04 Dr. Malcolm, Faculty of Communications and Creative Industries, Edith Cowan University, June 19, 2004, http://www.melbourne.indymedia.org/news/2004/06/72000_comment.php

There are lots . . . famine and pestilence.

**Contention 4 is Solvency**

**Governmental abandonment of contractors is key to break down the industry not only in Iraq and Afghanistan but worldwide**
Sheehy & Maogoto 8 (Lexis, Benedict Sheehy and Jackson N. Maogoto, ARTICLE & ESSAY: THE PRIVATE MILITARY COMPANY--UNRAVELLING THE THEORETICAL, LEGAL & REGULATORY MOSAIC, Fall 2008)

A second remedy . . . issues surrounding PMC’s. 

**Finally, US action is key to spillover—the US is the key player missing from the discussion**
Avant 6 (“Private Military Companies and the Future of War” Institute for Global and International Studies at George Washington University, Deborah April, http://www.fpri.org/enotes/200604.military.avant.privatemilitarycompanies.html)

How does all . . . moral or ethical reasons.

==Imperialism Aff (NSCTA)== 


**Our affirmation of this year’s resolution begins not in the sealed “safe” space of academia or debate but in Burma during the 1920s at the wake of the British Empire. Novelist and political theorist George Orwell was stationed in Burma as a police officer, and his experiences provide a unique insight into the perils of imperialism. Orwell begins his 1934 essay, “Shooting an Elephant” by describing the relationship between the people of Burma and their colonial oppressors**:
Orwell in 1934 [George, novelist and political theorist, “Shooting an Elephant.” http://www.online-literature.com/orwell/887/ ~rjk]

In Moulmein, in . . . him off duty.


**Orwell begins to understand his own relationship with imperialism when the people of his village ask for his assistance in killing an elephant. Orwell is exposed to death and violence as he is forced to confront not only the elephant but the society the Empire is attempting to contro**l.
Orwell in 1934 [George, novelist and political theorist, “Shooting an Elephant.” http://www.online-literature.com/orwell/887/ ~rjk]

One day something . . . smelt the elephant.

**Our protagonist does not want to shoot the elephant, and it is this that helps him understand the relationship between the West and the nations under its colonial control: the white man becomes a hero, the savior, and a puppet in the colonial show between the Empire and its subjects.**
Orwell in 1934 [George, novelist and political theorist, “Shooting an Elephant.” http://www.online-literature.com/orwell/887/ ~rjk]

The orderly came . . . to be laughed at.

**Orwell recognizes that the act of shooting the elephant would be murder. The elephant may have even calmed down; it’s entirely possible that no one is in danger. But the white savior cannot be afraid in front of the “natives.” Feeling the pressure of imperialism’s grip, Orwell takes aim…**
Orwell in 1934 [George, novelist and political theorist, “Shooting an Elephant.” http://www.online-literature.com/orwell/887/ ~rjk]

But I did not want . . . would be further forward.

**In the end, Orwell pulls the trigger. The death of the elephant was slow and grueling. No matter how many shots were fired the elephant wouldn’t die. Much like those suffering on both sides of imperialism the elephant was powerless to move yet powerless to die. Tortured by what he had done, Orwell leaves the scene of his crime amidst discussion in shame, for he had committed murder to avoid looking like a fool.**
Orwell in 1934 [George, novelist and political theorist, “Shooting an Elephant.” http://www.online-literature.com/orwell/887/ ~rjk]

When I pulled . . . looking a fool.

**The story of Orwell’s shooting of the elephant brings forward a unique understanding of imperialism beyond the generic claims of the evils of the West. We acknowledge that the West’s attempt to colonize and maintain informal empires throughout the East is horrendous and the effects it has upon people abroad must be rejected, but the understanding of imperialism through the eyes of the Western soldier provides a unique perspective. Orwell’s rebellion in the form of anxiety in the struggle of working for the Empire he so despised allows us a unique opportunity to affirm the resolution which states Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and/or police presence in one or more of the following: South Korea, Japan, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Iraq, Turkey.**
Guha 1997 [Ranajit, "Not at Home in Empire," Critical Inquiry, V23, No 3. Pg. 489]. rjk

By contrast, there . . . make my job impossible" (44SE, p. 4).



**And “Killing an Elephant” allows us to understand how imperialism is sustained. It’s not just some magic Empire sending troops, withdrawing troops, or being nationalistic; imperialism is sustained because of the relationships and interactions between colonizer and colonized, who are both trapped by compliance with the Empire’s normalcy. The impact to this imperialism is violence in the form of oppression, exploitation and fascism.**
Guha 1997 [Ranajit, "Not at Home in Empire," Critical Inquiry, V23, No 3. Pg. 490]. rjk

The misreading of . . . obediently to its queen.

**Finally, we return to Orwell’s last stance against the elephant. The moment Orwell realized he had to shoot the elephant signals a break in continuity, and it is within this break that we are able to understand our relationship with imperialism:**
Guha 1997 [Ranajit, "Not at Home in Empire," Critical Inquiry, V23, No 3. Pg. 491]. rjk

What however lifts . . . of his realization.



=Negative= 

At the request of Max Anderson. ASPEC is our A strat every round.

==ASPEC== 

A. Interpretation and Violation -- the plan must specify their agent of action beyond the USFG because the USFG isn't an actor -- the aff doesn't specify their agent
Brovero '94

B. Prefer our interpretation --

1) Education -- we lose 90% of education -- 90% of education is based upon implementation -- this also means they lose 90% of solvency
Elmore '80

2) Ground Loss -- we lose 90% of ground -- if 90% of the debate is focused on implementation, we lose 90% of negative arguments like politics, XO, Congress and SCOTUS CPs, process CPs, etc.

3) Predictability -- they can always spike out of our agent-based links by specifying in the 2AC -- this is worse than not specifying in the first place because it moots the entire 1NC strategy

4) Untopical -- violates resolved as a firm course of action -- this means the aff isn't topical. This is an independent voter for jurisdiction.

C. Vote negative for fairness and education.

Common negative strategies include: politics (second semester we've run Corporate Tax Cuts and KORUS), Consult NATO, lots of PICs, framework, Russia, and case defense/turns. For cite requests please contact Tim (tim.svlad at gmail dot com).

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]