Deont AFF: 
Rez refers to states generally 
Aff omission 
And permissibility goes aff 
Ought is defined as an obligation, and not denies that obligation 
Auxiliary verb, random house dictionary 2006 
Preff aff interp 
V: morality 
Individuals are uniquely valuable because they are distinct entities. 
Quinn, Warren S. “Actions, Intentions, and Consequences: The Doctrine of Doing and Allowing.” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 98, No. 3 (Jul., 1989). Via JSTOR. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2185021|http://www.jstor.org/stable/ 2185021]]</span>
A person is…the collective whole 
More violations of rights doesn’t mean people are less inviolable. 
Frances Kamm. (Littauer Professor of Philosophy and Public Policy at Harvard Kenedy School of Government and she is a member of the editorial boards of Philosophy & Public Affairs, Legal Theory, Bioethics, and Utilitas and was a consultant on ethics to the World Health Organization.) “Non-Consequentialism, the Person as an End-in-Itself, and the Significance of Status.” Philosophy and Public Affairs 21, no. 4 (1992). Princeton University Press. 
Suppose that there…not in others. 
When competing reason to prefer deont / util prefer deont bc doesn’t preclude being moral underboth 
Conceptions of desirability are circular, cant provide moral ob 
Those who will value must be treated as ends in themselves. 
Christine Korsgaard, “Two Distinctions in Goodness,” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 92, No. 2 (Apr., 1983), 182. 
In order for…of objective goods 
C: treating as ends in themselves 
I contend that nukes use ppl as a means to ends 
1) Deterrence threatens an innocent population and uses them as a means to their own ends. 
Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue Author(s): Robert P. Churchill Source: Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 469, Nuclear Armament and Disarmament (Sep., 1983), pp. 46-57 Published by: Sage Publications, Inc. in association with the American Academy of Political and Social Science Stable URL: <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1044534|http://www.jstor.org/stable/ 1044534]]</span>
It is in…drivers of automobiles 
2) merely using threat is immoral bc no consent 
3) creating threats implies a higher moral status, denies fundamental equality of persons 
threat of violence is equivalent to violence itself 
4) threating imposes unearned harm, which interefers with others rights 
prob of human error means inevitable launch 
if intent is wrong, then action is wrong 
5) value of security uses everyone as a means to an end 
Further, nukes are bad. 
a) Proximity and lack of transparency incentivize first strikes. 
[1] Perkovich, George. “Nuclear proliferation.” Foreign Policy. No. 112, Autumn, 1998, pp. 12-23. 
However it is…launch nuclear warheads 
b) nukes will eventually be launched 
Nuke war means extinction. 
[1] Michael Hogan, The Nuclear Freeze Campaign, 1994, p. 52 
In the fall…number of scientist 

Util AC 
Rez refers to states generally 
Aff omission 
And permissibility goes aff 
Ought is defined as an obligation, and not denies that obligation 
Auxiliary verb, random house dictionary 2006 
Preff aff interp 
Value: M 
All ethical theories must be grounded in scientific or natural facts. 
“in the middle… generis mental causes”. David Papineau, “Naturalism,” 
Stanford Encyclopedia of Philsophy, Feb. 22, 2007. 
-Always violations of side constraints 
C; Minimizing suffering 
Contention: Nukes increase suffering 
1. Prolif bad 
A. Proximity and lack of transparency incentivze first strieks, 
“However it is…launch nuclear warheads” Perkovich, George. “Nuclear 
proliferation.” Foreign Policy. No. 112, Autumn, 1998, pp. 12-23. 
B. Organizational flaws increase the likelihood of nuclear war, 
“first, I argue…than later logic.” Sagan, Scott. “The perils of 
proliferation: organization theory, deterrence theory, and the spread 
of nuclear weapons.” International Security, vol. 18, no. 4, Spring 
1994, pp. 66-107. 
C. Nuclear smuggling facilitates attacks, “If a midsized…for 
asymmetric deterrence”. Stan Erikson, July 2001. 
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.homelandsecurity.org/journal/articles/Erikson.html|http://www.homelandsecurity. org/journal/articles/Erikson. html]] </span>
And, nuclear weapons threaten innocents, “It is in…drivers of 
automobiles” Robert P. Churchill. September 1983.”Nuclear arms as a 
philosophical and moral issue.”<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstory.org/stable/1044534|www.jstory.org/stable/ 1044534]]</span>. 
D. Inevitable launches, mean no nukes is rpeferable 
E. Nuke prolif increases the chance that anonymous actors use nuclear 
ewapons to further political aims, “Nor can the…middle-ranking fanatic 
officers.” Nuclear Proliferation and World Politics Lewis A. Dunn 
Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 
430, Nuclear Proliferation: Prospects, Problems, and Proposals. (Mar., 
1977), pp. 96-109. 
And, launch on warning policy ensures retaliation. “from the time…for 
very long” Blair, Bruce G., Ph. D, [Center for Defense Information 
President]. Keeping Presidents in the Nuclear Dark. Center for Defense 
Information. Feb. 16, 2004. < 
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.cdi.org/blair/launch-on-warning.cfm|http://www.cdi.org/blair/ launch-on-warning.cfm]]</span>> 
Nuke war means extinction, “In the fall…number of scientists” Michael 
Hogan, The Nuclear Freeze Campaign, 1994, p. 52 
Extinction comes first: 

Further, disarming nukes doesn’t eliminate deterrence “The CISAC 
study…to conventional war”, Getting to Zero: Is Pursuing a 
Nuclear-Weapon-Free World Too Difficult? Too Dangerous? Too 
Distracting? (April 1998) Holdren, John P. 
f) A nuclear terrorist attack is inevitable “Such a disaster…o be 
obtained” Wittner, Lawrence [Lawrence Wittner is Professor of History 
at the State University of New York/Albany. His latest book is 
Confronting the Bomb: A Short History of the World Nuclear Disarmament 
Movement].”Nuclear Terrorism: How It Can Be Prevented.” The Huffington 
Post. January 11, 2010. 
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lawrence-wittner/nuclear-terrorism-how-it_b_418720.html|http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ lawrence-wittner/nuclear- terrorism-how-it_b_418720.html]] </span>
“Such a disaster...to be obtained.” 
Nuclear terrorism means extinction, “We have reached…all be loosers” 
Mohamed Sid-ahmed, political analyst, 9-1-2004 [Al-Ahram Weekly 
On-Line,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm|http://weekly.ahram. org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]</span>] 
2. nuclear deterrence doesn’t work 
A. NWS’s don’t possess second-strike capability, making deterrence a 
failure, Sagan 2 “Why would professional…a military force” (Same cite 
as above) 
B. Accidents, sagan 3 “First, some emergent…high over time”. Same as above. 
C. NMD inevitable “The second major…and technology development” 
Kayamone A. Sutton. The US Missile Defense System, Sept. 20 
2007.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.tigweb.org/express/panorama/article.html?ContentID=16025&start=|http://www.tigweb.org/ express/panorama/article.html? ContentID=16025&start=]]</span>

Asteroids DA 
The impacts for an asteroid collision would be disastrous, “The 
Earth’s atmosphere…100 million megatons” David Morrison, September 
2004. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://impact.arc.nasa.gov/intro_faq.cfm|http://impact.arc.nasa.gov/ intro_faq.cfm]]</span>, FAQs About NEO Impacts 
Nuclear weapons are a unique tool for stopping asteroids (Our previous 
work…nuclear device types.) ”New Directions in Asteroid Deflection 
using Nuclear Explosives“ by David Dearborn, Peter Schultz, and Wayne 
Ulrich Dearborn, David1; Schultz, P2; Ulrich, W3 1LLNL; 2Brown 
University; 3DTRA 
The impacts for an asteroid collision would be disastrous, “The 
Earth’s atmosphere…100 million megatons” David Morrison, September 
2004. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://impact.arc.nasa.gov/intro_faq.cfm|http://impact.arc.nasa.gov/ intro_faq.cfm]]</span>, FAQs About NEO Impacts 

Bio weapons DA 
The existence of nuclear weapons has empirically deterred the use of 
biological weapons 
Payne, Keith B. [President, National Institute for Public Policy 
Faculty, National Security Studies Program, Georgetown University]. 
Nuclear Weapons: Ours and Theirs. National Institute for Public 
Policy. May 7, 1999.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Archives/Publication%20Archive%20PDF/ours%20and%20theirs.pdf|http://www.nipp.org/ National%20Institute%20Press/ Archives/Publication% 20Archive%20PDF/ours%20and% 20theirs.pdf]]</span>
"These statements by...and too high." 
Betts explains the impact: 
Betts, Richard K. The New Threat of Mass Destruction. Foreign Affairs, 
Jan/Feb98, Vol. 77, Issue 1. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://0.0.0.0/|http://0]]</span>
"One simple fact...for scientific research." 
And, they risk extinction; they are even more dangerous than nukes 
Ochs, Richard (member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the 
Military Toxics Project and a member of the Chemical Weapons Working 
Group). “Biological Weapons must be abolished immediately,” June 9, 
2002, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html|http://www.freefromterror.net/ other_articles/abolish.html]]</span>
"Of all the...is now possible." 

Self Defense NC 
Value is morality 
Actions must be evaluated by the inherent goodness of actions, not the consequences resulting from such actions. 
We evaluate actions to respect agency. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: Deontology. George Edward Moore "On the first...permissions into play. (published 2010) 
Utility calculations are impossible. 
[1] Dworkin, Gerald. “Nuclear intentions.” Ethics, vol. 95 no. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence, April 1985, pp. 445-460. 
In case1-the…a consequentalist assment. 
The standard is preserving self-defense. 
1. Moral agents are entitled to defend their property. 
2. Morality must differentiate between accidents and incidents. 
3. The government is contractually obligated to provide its citizens self-defense. 
I contend that nuclear weapons are used for self-defense. 
NWS are given more in the international arena. Ted Carpenter and Justin Logan. U.S. Must Offer Iran Diplomatic Deal. CATO Institute. April 2006 
U.S. behavior may...caution and respect 


Contractarian NC 
Aff must provide proactive ob 2 not use nukes 
V: morality 
Must be able to guide action 
Contractarian morality derives principles of restraint from individuals’ self-interest. 
Gauthier, David P. Morals by Agreement. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print. 
Moral principles are…in their affairs. 
Only contractarianism’s foundation in the empirical fact that individuals have desires provides a non-circular origin for morality. 
Gauthier, David P. Morals by Agreement. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print. 
A contractarian theory… morally neutral, base. 
C: consitency with a contractairan system of mutal constraint 
1) contractarian restrictions on autonomy cannot be justified in the international arena. 
“The Problem of Global Justice”, 2005 by Blackwell Publishing, Inc. Thomas Nagel, Philosophy & Public Affairs 33, no. 2. http://as.nyu.edu/docs/IO/1172/globaljustice.pdf 
But the same…just or unjust 
2) Nuclear weapons collapse the obligation to respect innocents. 
A Contractarian Defense of Nuclear Deterrence Christopher W. Morris Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence. (Apr., 1985), pp. 479-496. Stable URL: http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0014-1704%28198504%2995%3A3%3C479%3AACDOND%3E2.0.CO%3B2-A 
Let me expand…is morally permisble. 
3) world without nukes, big nations dominate small nations, so not in their interest to not have nukes 
Additionally, powerful nations don’t want to constrain themselves 

Theoy: 
Disarm: 
A. interp: aff must defend the disarm process of nukes 
B. violation: they don't 
C. Standards: 
1. ground, dont have ground to contest disarm 
2. textuality- no ought not 
D. Fairness is a voter 

State Spec: 
A. interp aff must spec two states. 
B. viol aff dont 
C. STadnard: 
1. shift: this allowsthe aff to shit in the next speech 
2. ground: dont have enough specs to read da's 

Inehrent moral ob 
A. interP: aff must defend an inherent moral ob to use nukes 
b. vio: aff world has no nukes at all 
C. Standards: 
1. ground 
a. fiat 
b. nuke war impact turn only ground 
2. text: 
rely on states of affairs, not nukes 

Possess T: 
a. interp: neg must defend use of nukes 
b. vio: dont 
C. standads: 
Ground, cant link any da's to advocacy 


Interps must be written out theory: 
a. theory inteprs must be fully written out 
b. vio: his isn;t 
C. standardS: 
1. turn gorun 
2. adovcacy shift


NOv:Dec

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">V: morality</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Individuals are uniquely valuable because they are distinct entities.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Quinn, Warren S. “Actions, Intentions, and Consequences: The Doctrine of Doing and Allowing.” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 98, No. 3 (Jul., 1989). Via JSTOR. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2185021|http://www.jstor.org/stable/ 2185021]]</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">A person is…the collective whole</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">More violations of rights doesn’t mean people are less inviolable.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Frances Kamm. (Littauer Professor of Philosophy and Public Policy at Harvard Kenedy School of Government and she is a member of the editorial boards of Philosophy & Public Affairs, Legal Theory, Bioethics, and Utilitas and was a consultant on ethics to the World Health Organization.) “Non-Consequentialism, the Person as an End-in-Itself, and the Significance of Status.” Philosophy and Public Affairs 21, no. 4 (1992). Princeton University Press.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Suppose that there…not in others.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">When competing reason to prefer deont / util prefer deont bc doesn’t preclude being moral underboth</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Conceptions of desirability are circular, cant provide moral ob</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Those who will value must be treated as ends in themselves.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Christine Korsgaard, “Two Distinctions in Goodness,” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 92, No. 2 (Apr., 1983), 182.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">In order for…of objective goods</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">C: treating as ends in themselves</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">1. I contend criminak justice policies dont respect people as ends in themevels</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Possession nc</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">v: mmorality</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Evaluating intentions is the only relevatn thing</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">I contend, the intentino of policies are permissible</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">(no ev in this case)</span>