[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===How I Learned to Start Worrying=== 
Part 1 is the Framework

V. Individual morality
<span class="Underline">1. All conceptions of morality from the perspective of the individual must originate from the ability of an agent to perceive the self. </span>
**Korsgaard 93**, Christine [Unattractive Kant Expert – Badass Professor of Moral Philosophy at Harvard]. 1993. “The Sources of Normativity.” The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Delivered at Clare Hall, Cambridge University. November 16 and 17, 1992.
And this...or go forward

<span class="Underline">2. Considerations of death as the end of life miss the point- we cannot experience death and claims that it can be aggregated are illogical- every death is an absolute evil and aggregation merely brutalizes us to it. Death must be examined from another perspective- that of the ability of the individual to understand themself. </span>

**Crowell in 04 furthers** [American philosopher who has taught at Rice University since 1983 and is currently the department chair. Dr. Crowell earned his Ph.D. in Philosophy from Yale University in 1981] Steven, “Authentic Historicality”, Space, Time, and Culture, pg. 65-66
A narrative theorist... practical activity

Life ought not be aggregated, only by viewing it as involiable can human worth be upheld. Kamm furthers
<span style="color: black;">F. M. </span>**<span style="color: black;">Kamm 92</span>** <span style="color: black;">[Littauer Professor of Philosophy and Public Policy, Kennedy School of Government, and Professor of Philosophy, Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University.] Review: Non-Consequentialism, the Person as an End-in-Itself, and the Significance of Status Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 21, No. 4 (Autumn, 1992), pp. 354-389. Blackwell Publishing<span style="color: #3366bb; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2265370Cooper]]</span></span>
**__If we are inviolable__** ...**__pursue other values__**

3. Questions of nuclear viability must be examined from the perspective of individual agency and self-actualization, otherwise the damage caused by these weapons that pose an existential threat is inevitable and ongoing. Losing a sense of self makes the state the only decision maker, and thus makes nuclear war unavoidable.
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Mack 85</span>**<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, The Cambridge Hospital John “Toward a Collective Psychopathology of the Nuclear Arms Competition”</span></span> //<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Political Psychology</span>//<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, Vol. 6, No. 2, Special Issue: A Notebook on the Psychology of the U.S.-Soviet Relationship (Jun., 1985), pp. 291-3 </span></span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">In a modern</span>__** ...**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">is carried out.</span>__**

VC: Upholding the Identity of the Individual
Contingent VC: Maximizing the individual's identity to realize their identity

Part 2 is the destruction of the self.
Subpoint A is Pure War.

Nuclear weapons force individuals into a state where they are constantly engaged in a psychic preparation for war, where it is viewed as an inevitability and in which peace is merely the inverse of violence. This pure war destroys the individual’s knowledge of the self.
**Borg 03** **Mark** [Practicing Psychoanalyst and community consultant] “<span style="color: black;">Psychoanalytic Pure War: Interactions with the Post-Apocalyptic Unconscious” <span class="apple-style-span">Journal for the Psychoanalysis of Culture and Society 8.1 (2003) 57-67 Muse</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Paul Virilio and Sylvere </span>...
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">fies this task.</span>

<span class="Underline">Subpoint B is Psychic Numbing:
The availability of nuclear weapons and the apocalyptic discourse associated with them renders every act of violence a potential act of absolute destruction. We impact our disad scenarios to nuclear war time and time again because we are taught that now all threats are inherently existential, so much so that the spectre of apocalypse is included in multiple other impact scenarios- all because of the image of The Bomb. </span>
**Chernus 08** Ira [Professor of Religious studies University of Colorado Boulder] “Apocalypse Management” Book p.237
**__Psychiatrist Robert__**...stasis of **__numbing__**.


Subpoint C is Target Planet Earth
<span class="Underline">The Nuclear age is one of abject separation where the one who controls the weapons has no relation to the one who faces the attack. This makes nuclear war inevitable as eventually the target will be struck, and it makes responding to different threats nearly impossible, especially ecological destruction </span>
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Chow 06</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Rey, Andrew W. Mellon Professor of the Humanities and Professor of Modern Culture & Media Studies, Comparative Literature, and English, The Age of the World Target: Self-Referentiality in War, Theory, and Comparative Work, Duke University Press, pg. 38-39)</span></span>
Supplementing Heidegger, ...
**__the same level of //visibility.//__**

===**__Grandma's Waffles AC__**=== 
V. Governmental Morality
Merriam Webster, Ought:
**__<span style="color: black;">To be bound</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> in duty or **__by moral obligation.__**</span>

VC: Minimizing harm
1. No group intention.

2. Gov can cause significant harm, extinction comes first.

3. Social contract means util.

Contention 1:
Nuclear primacy of large nations greatly increases the likelihood of a pre-emptive nuclear strike on another nation in the hopes of preventing proliferation or extending hegemony.
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Lieber, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Keir</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> A. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Daryl G. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Press</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. [Lieber is author of War and the Engineers: The Primacy of Politics over Technology, is Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame. Daryl G. Press, author of Calculating Credibility: How Leaders Assess Military Threats, is Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania.] “The End of MAD? The Nuclear Dimension of U.S. Primacy” International Security, Volume 30, Number 4, Spring 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">06</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, pp. 7-44. PM. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Third, if Russia </span> ...
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">United States</span>__**

Contention 2:

**The militaries that control nuclear weapons are likely to launch accidentally, are without checks, and do not adequately take care of their citizens**
**__<span style="color: black;">Arbatov and Dvorkin</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> 20</span>**__<span style="color: black;">05</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (Alexei and Vladimir, Center for International and Security Studies @ Maryland, “ Revisiting Nuclear Weapons” < http://www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/arbatov_dvorkin.pdf</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, at such </span> ...
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">inappropriate considerations</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Furthermore, the poverty of the Russian government makes systems that previously prevented accidental launch underfunded and unlikely to work**
**Forden 01** “Reducing a Common Danger Improving Russia’s Early-Warning System” Cato Institute Geoffrey Forden <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa399.pdf]]</span>
**__<span style="color: black;">During the </span>__** ...
**__<span style="color: black;">nuclear-tipped missiles.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">All that I need to do is win that one nuclear weapon is launched- even a tiny risk of attack will cause huge environmental degradation and threaten destruction. The much larger wars that my evidence warns of would certainly cause extinction</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Starr 08</span>**</span> <span style="color: black;"><span class="apple-style-span">(Steven Starr is a senior scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility, USA. He has been published by the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. This article is based on material presented at a side event at the 2008 PrepCom of the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). Dedicated to the memory of Alan Phillips of Physicians for Global Survival, Canada.) </span></span>
General knowledge of ...
**__change__** shown in Figure

Furthermore, this is not a question of what is slightly more probable, a risk of this size must be treated differently, as something completely impermissible
**<span style="color: black;">Hellman 08</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">(Martin E. Hellman* * Martin E. Hellman is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and Professor Emeritus at Stanford University. His current project applies risk analysis to nuclear deterrence) “On the probability of nuclear war”</span><span class="MsoHyperlink"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">http://ee.stanford.edu/~hellman/opinion/inevitability.html</span></span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">On our current path</span>__** ...
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">necessary for survival.</span>

===Evil Men Have No Songs or Nukes=== 

__<span class="Underline">Plan Text: Russian (federal government ought to enforce full nuclear weapon disarmament) (and Georgian federal governments ought to sign and enforce a treaty that guarantees full permanent nuclear disarmament for both governments). This disarmament will occur under the standards of the IAEA and associated organizations. I reserve the right to clarify. </span>__
__<span class="Underline">The negative gets to choose the plan text: I will not derive offense off of Georgia, however they may if they wish. </span>__

<span class="Underline">Observation 1 is inherency: Despite the end of the cold war and recent treaties, Russia retains a huge amount of nuclear weapons. </span>


<span class="apple-style-span">**NTI 10** [Nuclear threat initiative </span><span style="color: black;">NTI is a place of common ground where people with different ideological views are working together to close the gap between the global threats from nuclear, biological and chemical weapons and the global response.</span>] <span class="apple-style-span">August 2010 “Russia Profile” http://www.nti.org/e_research/profiles/russia/index.html
The Sov</span>...
<span class="Underline">Observation 2 is the framework: </span>
V: Governmental Morality
First, all moral statements must be made from the perspective of prescription- of saying an action ought to taken.
<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">R M</span> Hare 93. <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Objective Prescriptions. Philosophical Issues, Vol. 4, Naturalism and Normativity (1993), pp. 15-32</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">According to this</span>...**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">to open it'.</span>__**

Metaethics come first

__<span class="Underline">Second: Prescriptivism demands that the individual evaluate morality from the perspective of all- defaulting to a utilitarian analysis. </span>__
Singer 09 <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Peter Singer. The Groundwork of Utilitarian Morals: Reconsidering Hare’s Argument for Utilitarianism. New York University Department of Philosophy, November 7, 2009.</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">When I prescribe</span>__** ...<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">by the action.</span>

Deontology is agent-relative

No act ommission for state

State cannot have intention

VC: Minimizing Harm

Adv: Accidental Launch
<span class="Underline">Subpoint A is Low funding </span>
**The poverty of the Russian government makes systems that previously prevented accidental launch underfunded and unlikely to work**
**Forden 01** “Reducing a Common Danger Improving Russia’s Early-Warning System” Cato Institute Geoffrey Forden [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa399.pdf]]
**__<span style="color: black;">During the past </span>__**...**__<span style="color: black;">nuclear-tipped missiles.</span>__**

**<span style="color: black;">Russian leadership admits that its nuclear control is teetering, and currently Russian submarine crews can launch their own nukes </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;"> Forrow 98</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, Lachlon. "Accidental Nuclear War - A Post Cold-War Assessment." The New England Journal Of Medicine (1998). 30 Apr. 1998. Web. 19 Aug. 2010. <http://www.nejm.org/doi/pdf/10.1056/NEJM199804303381824>. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">From 1975 </span>...**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">cannot be controlled</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span class="Underline">Subpoint B is terrorists </span>
**<span style="color: black;">Terrorists can hack the Russian defense systems and force release of the entire arsenal- the success of Chechen rebels proves empirically </span>**
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">Bruce G.</span> **<span style="color: black;">Blair 03</span>**<span style="color: black;">[</span></span><span style="color: black;">He is an expert on U.S. and Russian security policies, specializing in nuclear forces and command-control systems. He has frequently testified before Congress and has taught security studies as a visiting professor at Yale and Princeton universitie <span class="apple-style-span">senior fellow in the Foreign Policy Studies Program at the Brookings Institution from 1987 to 2000.</span> . From 1970 to 1974, Dr. Blair served in the U.S. Air Force, serving as a Minuteman ICBM launch control officer and support officer for the Strategic Air Command’s Airborne Command Post. He is the author of numerous books and articles on security issues] “</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: #002652;">Hair-Trigger Missiles Risk Catastrophic Terrorism</span></span><span class="apple-converted-space"><span style="color: black;"> “ Blog, </span></span>[[http://www.cdi.org/blair/hair-trigger-dangers.cfm]]
<span style="color: black;">Both U.S. and </span>...<span style="color: black;">heightens the risks.</span>

<span class="Underline">Subpoint C is Disaffected Soldiers </span>
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">The horrible living conditions for Russian soldiers- including those with control of nuclear weapons- make nuclear launch inevitable </span>**</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Arbatov and Dvorkin, 05</span>****<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Alexei and Vladimir, Center for International and Security Studies @ Maryland, Revisiting Nuclear Weapons”, </span>****<span style="color: #0018ea; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://74.125.155.132/search?q=cache:dti5awEM5Y4J:www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/arbatov_dvorkin.pdf+nuclear+deterrence+projection+rationality&cd=13&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=firefox-a#13]]</span>****<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">)</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">According to some experts</span>...
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">to the minimal level.</span>

Contention 2: Impact Calc

Prefer Expert analysis

<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">All that I need to do is win that one nuclear weapon is launched- even a tiny risk of attack will cause huge environmental degradation and threaten destruction. The much larger wars that my evidence warns of would certainly cause extinction</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Starr 08</span>**</span> <span style="color: black;"><span class="apple-style-span">(Steven Starr is a senior scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility, USA. He has been published by the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. This article is based on material presented at a side event at the 2008 PrepCom of the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). Dedicated to the memory of Alan Phillips of Physicians for Global Survival, Canada.) </span></span>
General knowledge of ...**__change__** shown in Figure

Furthermore, this is not a question of what is slightly more probable, a risk of this size must be treated differently, as something completely impermissible
**<span style="color: black;">Hellman 08</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">(Martin E. Hellman* * Martin E. Hellman is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and Professor Emeritus at Stanford University. His current project applies risk analysis to nuclear deterrence) “On the probability of nuclear war”</span><span class="MsoHyperlink"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">http://ee.stanford.edu/~hellman/opinion/inevitability.html</span></span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">On our current path</span>__** ...<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> necessary for survival.</span>

Plan Focus Good:
1. Aff choice

<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">AFF Choice Ensures Competitive Equity</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">O’Donnell </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Timothy, And the Twain Shall Meet: Affirmative Framework Choice and the Future of Debate” Timothy M. O’Donnell Director of Debate University of Mary Washington)</span></span>
<span style="color: black;"> <span class="apple-style-span">Second, AF</span></span>C...<span class="apple-style-span">**__<span style="color: black;">half the time</span>__**<span style="color: black;">.</span></span>

<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">2. Real World</span></span>

<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">3. Topic Lit</span></span>
===Demos AC=== 
I reserve the right to specify an advocacy if requested. Previously used advocacies include:

The United States Federal Government ought to ratify or recommit to the NPT and interpret article VI as requiring immediate disarmament of and prohibiting future possession of nuclear weapons, and thus allow for aid in dismantling and removal of nuclear facilities by the IAEA and allow for periodic IAEA inspections to verify.

The 5 Signing Members of the NPT ought to ratify or recommit to the NPT and interpret article VI as requiring immediate disarmament of and prohibiting future possession of nuclear weapons, and thus allow for aid in dismantling and removal of nuclear facilities by the IAEA and allow for periodic IAEA inspections to verify.

All nation-states ought to ratify or recommit to the NPT and interpret article VI as requiring immediate disarmament of and prohibiting future possession of nuclear weapons, and thus allow for aid in dismantling and removal of nuclear facilities by the IAEA and allow for periodic IAEA inspections to verify.

1. Meta-ethics come first
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Empirically, morality arose as a evolutionary response to the fact that humans need a community to be individuated. </span>
__Dy__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">, Manuel B. Jr. [professor of Philosophy at the Ateneo de Manila University, specializes in moral education and moral psychology] “The Ethics Of Communicative Action Habermas’s Discourse Ethics” Cultural Heritage And Contemporary Change Series III. Asia, Volume 11 Chapter XIV. Last Revised <span class="apple-style-span">27-Mar-</span></span><span class="apple-style-span">__09__</span> <span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> <[[http://www.crvp.org/book/Series03/III-11/chapter_xiv.htm]]></span>
<span style="font-size: 7px;">Where c...</span><span style="font-size: 17px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">is</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">solidarity</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">.16</span></span>

Ethics must be empiric.
Because of the goals of morality, we must allow for free argumentative discourse, Dy 2 [Ibid]
Unfettered discourse good
The standard is rejecting undemocratic institutional arrangements.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">First, States are constituted through being representative of a grouping of individuals.
Second, lack of democratic oversight and institutions allows for un-checked abuse by officials</span>
Third: The democratic tradition converts disputes in productive discussion by recognizing the input of every citizen.
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mouffe</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">, Chantal. //The Return Of The Political// “Modern or Post modern?” Pg 15.20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">. Print. Pg 15. < [[http://books.google.com/books?id=ApKFSeQE-%20%20HMC&lpg=PP1&dq=inauthor%3A%22Chantal%20Mouffe%22&pg=PP1#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=ApKFSeQE- HMC&lpg=PP1&dq=inauthor%3A%22Chantal%20Mouffe%22&pg=PP1#v=onepage&q&f=false]]> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">It is always</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">...</span>**</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">impose their power</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Dem checks nihilism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; font-weight: normal;">Allows us to weigh between moral theories
Contention 1: A</span><span style="font-size: 17px;">rrangements First//,// as a result of military secrecy the public is excluded from deliberations about the bomb</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; vertical-align: baseline;">**__Taylor__**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">, Bryan C. <span class="apple-style-span">[associate professor in the Department of Communication at the University of Colorado-Boulder. His research interests include cultural and critical studies of nuclear and Cold War rhetoric. He is currently working on a book contrasting rhetorical and cultural studies paradigms for studying the Cold War]</span> "</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb6387/is_200712/ai_n32246236/|"The Means to Match Their Hatred": Nuclear Weapons, Rhetorical Democracy, and Presidential Discourse]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">". Presidential Studies Quarterly. 20</span>**__07__**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> FindArticles.com. accessed 29 Aug, 2010. http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb6387/is_200712/ai_n32246236/ </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">First, there is general.. </span><span style="font-size: 7px;">see also Hales 1997).
</span>
The nature of nuclear weapons requires an authoritarian political structure, Taylor continues
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">Second, as th... </span>are "dead wrong" (135).
== == 
Moreover, it is impossible to separate nuclear weapons from the political structures the produce
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Winner</span>__**, Langdon. The whale and the reactor: a search for limits in an age of high technology. Chicago, University of Chicago Press, 19-39.19**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">86</span>__**.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Taking the m...</span><span style="font-size: medium; font-weight: normal;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">character of its rulers</span>__**</span>
==Negative== 
===I Hate White People NC=== 
V. Governmental Morality
Merriam Webster, Ought:
**__<span style="color: black;">To be bound</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> in duty or **__by moral obligation.__**</span>

VC: Minimizing harm
1. No group intention.

2. Gov can cause significant harm, extinction comes first.

3. Social contract means util.

<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">EMPIRICALLY NUCLEAR WEAPONS SIGNIFICANTLY DECREASE THE INTENSITY OF CONFLICT, ESPECIALLY AMONG GREAT POWERS, WHICH EXPLAINS THE LACK OF GREAT POWER WARS SINCE WORLD WAR TWO</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Rauchhaus</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">09</span>** <span style="color: black;">Robert. “Evaluating the Nuclear Peace Hypothesis: A Quantitative Approach,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, 2/5/09 </span></span>[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/uploads/Rauchhaus_Evaluating_the_Nuclear_Peace.pdf]]
As the results ... **__the conflict scale.__**

Prefer Experts

<span style="line-height: 11.25pt;"><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">Analytic Warrants
Alagappa 09, Muthiah [</span></span><span style="color: #3d3f40;">PhD, International Affairs, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University]</span></span>

<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;"> “reinforcing National Security and Regional Stability The Implications if Nuclear Weapons and Strategies,” The Long Shadow, 2009. P. 512</span> </span>
<span style="color: black;">I extend that argument</span>...<span style="color: black;"> weapons in thist.</span>

===<span style="color: black;">Best Defense</span>=== 
V: Governmental Morality
**NUCLEAR CONCERNS MUST BE EVALUATED MORALLY BECAUSE MORAL CONCERNS DRIVE POLICY CHOICES**
<span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: medium; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-left-width: medium; border-right-style: none; border-right-width: medium; border-top-style: none; border-top-width: medium; display: block; margin-bottom: 2.25pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">Doyle 10 Thomas Doyle [Ph. D. UC Irvine}</span> “Kantian nonideal theory and nuclear proliferation<span style="color: black;">” </span>[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=1&fid=7337004&jid=INT&volumeId=2&issueId=01&aid=7336996|International Theory]] <span style="color: black;">(2010), 2: 87-112 Cambridge University Press </span></span>
Second, **__it is__**...necessity and morality.

VC:
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Maximizing the ability of the agent to defend themselves </span>
1. The real world of international relations does not have ideal moral conditions, instead threats are constantly relevant. This means that certain lesser moral rules can be broken in order to enforce greater ones, the most important of which is self-defense
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Doyle 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Thomas E. [Department of Political Science, School of Social Science, University of California] “Kantian nonideal theory and nuclear proliferation” International Theory (2</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">010</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">), 2:1, 87–112 & Cambridge University Press, 2010 </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">,</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 6pt;"> In these passages,</span>...**__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;"> to be compromised. </span>__**

2. Ethical theories assume existence of agent.

3. Social contract means state self-d.

Contention 1:
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">Lying to deter satisfies the non-ideal rule because of the implicit threat from other nations
Doyle 10 Thomas Doyle [Ph. D. UC Irvine} “Kantian nonideal theory and nuclear proliferation” <span class="MsoHyperlink"><span style="color: #005488;">International Theory</span></span> (2010), 2: 87-112 Cambridge University Press </span>
<span style="color: black;">First, we recall</span> ...<span style="color: black;"> though the NPT forbids it.</span>

===<span style="color: black;">Weapons are made for War? PIC</span>=== 
**<span style="color: black;">Part 1 is the Counterplan Text: </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">States ought not possess Nuclear instruments of mass extermination. </span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Part 2 is Competition: </span>**
EMPIRICALLY Discourse is the medium through which we comprehend and constitute the world around us.
**<span style="color: black;">Lakoff 99</span>** <span style="color: black;">George. [Professor of Linguistics at UC Berkeley, co-founder and Senior Fellow of the Rockridge Institute]. "Metaphorical Thought in Foreign Policy," December 1999. <</span>__<span style="color: #005488;">www.frameworkinstitute.org/products/metaphoricalthought.pdf</span>__<span style="color: black;">>.
Cognitive linguistics </span>...**__<span style="color: black;"> framing to action.</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 12pt; margin: 0.1pt 0in;">Debating specific nuclear systems doesn’t matter, as long as they’re referred to as “nuclear weapons.” The only way to get at the root of nuclear danger is to re-frame the nuclear debate through language. Their deployment of the words “nuclear weapons” ensures the continuance of the violence that causes nuclear danger in the first place. </span>

<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Times;">Hallet and Summy 03</span>** <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Brien Hallett, University of Hawaii Matsunaga Institute for Peace, and Ralph Summy, Founder of Peace Studies and professor of political science, University of Queensland, April 2003, Peace and Change, Vol. 28 no. 2, p. 238</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Thus **__the language__** </span>...<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> prudential regulations.”</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Part 3 is the Impacts</span>**
Advocacy is Pre-fiat
**<span style="color: black;">Referring to Nuclear Explosive devices as Nuclear weapons makes violence inevitable as they are constructed as useful in the context of war. </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Gates 02</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt;">John [Professor College of Wooster] “U.S. Army and Irregular Warfare” </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">www.history.army.mil/html/books/irregular_warfare/CMH_70-111-1.pdf</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 12pt;">The use of the term </span>__** ...**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 12pt;"> use in combat.</span>__**

**<span style="color: black;">Saying “Nuclear Weapons” constructs existential threats as tools, and thus safe and utilitarian </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Gates 02</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 8pt;">John [Professor College of Wooster] “U.S. Army and Irregular Warfare” </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">www.history.army.mil/html/books/irregular_warfare/CMH_70-111-1.pdf</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 12pt;">What had enabled people</span>__**...**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 12pt;"> doctrine of war fighting</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 12pt;">."</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0.1pt 0in;">Using the traditional nuclear language ensures that the movement plays the role of the loyal opposition – it may be heard, but any time a decision has to be made, decision-makers will reject the movement. </span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Times;">Hallet and Summy 03</span>** <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Brien Hallett, University of Hawaii Matsunaga Institute for Peace, and Ralph Summy, Founder of Peace Studies and professor of political science, University of Queensland, April 2003, Peace and Change, Vol. 28 no. 2, p. 238</span> </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Due to the absence</span>__**...**__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;"> their decision-makers. </span>__**

===Rush Hour DA=== 
A. Uniqueness US-China relations tense now – currency and South China Sea prove
Wall Street Journal 9/6<span style="font-weight: normal;">/10 </span> (Jason Dean, China News Editor of The Wall Street Journal, “Bumpy Months Ahead for U.S. and China,” September 6, 2010, 11:04 AM HKT, http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2010/09/06/bumpy-months-ahead-for-us-and-china///DN) <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">The visit of</span> ... a restful five months.//
B. Links Nukes are key to U.S. China Relations- Empirically Proven
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt; line-height: normal;">Muthiah [PhD, International Affairs, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University Distinguished Senior Fellow, East-West Center which was established by congress for better relations] </span> <span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"> “Reinforcing National Security and Regional Stability The Implications if Nuclear Weapons and Strategies,” The Long Shadow, 2009. P. 512 </span> **__The caution induced__** ...<span class="apple-style-span"> **__the status quo and stability__**</span>
C. Internal Links <span style="line-height: normal;">Strong China-US relations key to climate change.
**__Schatz 09__**, Joseph J. “China: Duet With the Dragon” CQ Weekly. Pg. 1366. June 15, 2009</span>
**__The days when China__ ... __China to move forward__**.”
D. Impacts As CO2 emissions grow, increased plant growth leads to insect malnutrition.
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seaborg</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, David. [Evolutionary biologist, founded and heads the World Rainforest Fund and the Seaborg Open Space Fund] “The Greenhouse Diet” Earth Island Journal Winter 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Vol. 18, No. 4.</span>
Carbon dioxide ... **__appear ominous as well.__**
<span style="line-height: normal;">CO2 emissions threaten to disrupt the delicate balance which provides humanity with sustenance - Insect malnutrition collapses the ecosystem,
Seaborg 2 [Ibid] </span> **__The ecological impact__** ... **__survive without insects.__**
===Dr. Hume NC=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The purpose of morality is to create human motivation rather than empty apriori truths </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">SECTION I.: of the general principles of morals. - David </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Hume</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">, Enquiries Concerning the Human Understanding and Concerning the Principles of Morals </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[1777]</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;"> Edition used: Enquiries Concerning the Human Understanding and Concerning the Principles of Morals by David Hume, ed. L. A. Selby-Bigge, M.A. 2nd ed. (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1902). </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The end ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">and actions. </span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">What we ought to do is bound up in what we are </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;"> Donnelly, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Bebhinn</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;"> “The Epistemic Connection between Nature and Value in New and Traditional Natural Law Theory” Source: Law and Philosophy, Vol. 25, No. 1 (Jan., 20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">06</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">), pp. 1-29Published Nature does have a role in new natural law theory, then, an ontological not an epistemic role. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">But, in a sense...</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7px;">little important about nature.
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Evolution makes the will to self-help inevitable in all living things </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7px;"> **__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Thayer</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Assistant Professor of Political Science @ University of Minnesota-Duluth, </span>****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">2000 </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">(Bradley A. “Bringing in Darwin: Evolutionary Theory, Realism, and International Politics” </span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">International Security</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">, Vol. 25, No. 2. Autumn. JSTORp. 131-132) <span class="underline">Evolutionary theory offers two sufficient explanations for the trait of egoism</span></span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">. The </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">first is a classic Darwinian argument:</span> </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7px;">**<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">In a hostile</span></span>****<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">...</span></span>**</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">the behavior spreads</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Nuclear weapons are empirically valued as a method self defense. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Brown</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">, Harold. [Center for Strategic and International Sudies counselor and trustee and served as secretary of defense from 1977 to 1981.] “New Nuclear Realities” The Washington Quarterly, Volume 31, Number 1, Winter 2007-</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">, pp. 7-22. PM.
In the post–World War II worl__d__,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> ...</span>**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">regime) sense</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">.

On balance is sufficient</span>

<span style="font-size: 32px;">**November-December**</span>
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]