<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contact either of us for cites on aff or neg - we share files sometimes</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Jack's emails: [[mailto:gubertpea07@gmail.com|gubertpea07@gmail.com]] [[mailto:gubertpea07@yahoo.com|gubertpea07@yahoo.com]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> my email is [[mailto:johnfspurlock@gmail.com|johnfspurlock@gmail.com]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> you can get at me on facebook too[[toc]]
</span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Berkeley/Stanford 1AC</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in Japan. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 1 is Security Independence</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, Japanese dependence on the US hinders cooperation with ASEAN</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Yoshihide 3 (Soeya, Professor of Political Science, Faculty of Law, Keio University, "Japan as a Regional Actor", ASEAN-Japan Cooperation: A Foundation for East Asian Community”, 2003, www.jcie.or.jp/books/abstracts/A/asean-japan.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Many external observers have seen Japan’s .... Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Direct trade-off – Japan can’t juggle the security alliance and ASEAN</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nikkei Weekly 10 (Staff, “Futenma delay keeps Japan's diplomacy in holding pattern”, The Nikkei Weekly, 8/16/10, Lexis/Nexis) JPG</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The DPJ has been in power ... toll on Japanese diplomacy.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Japanese cooperation with ASEAN solves wars in Southeast Asia, Korea, and the Taiwan Straits</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Masahi 3 (Nishihara, Director of the Research Institute for Peace and Security, “Japan’s Political and Security Relations with ASEAN”, Japan Center for International Exchange, 2003, pp. 154-167, [[http://www.jcie.org/researchpdfs/ASEAN/asean_nishihara.pdf]]) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">With the goal of peace and security, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">mediation, could be introduced.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - East Asian wars lead to extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Landy 2k [Jonathon, National Security and International Correspondent, Knight Ridder, March 10, p. Lexis] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Few if any experts think China … international nonproliferation regime.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Plan leads to Japanese security independence – US presence is useless and Japan fills in for any role we may serve</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Carpenter 95 (Ted Galen, Director of foreign policy studies @ CATO Inst., “Paternalism and Dependence: The U.S.-Japanese Security Relationship”, Policy Analysis No. 244, 11/1/95, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=1103&full=1) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Instead of persisting in a desperate … to Japan, the region's leading power.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 2 is Kan</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, Kan decides on TPP in June – there’s opposition </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sakamaki and Humber 1/29 (Sachiko and Yuriy, both writers @ Bloomberg, “Kan Pledges to Open Up Japan, Seek Freer Trade With EU, Asia”, 1/29/11, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-29/kan-pledges-to-open-up-japan-seek-freer-trade-with-eu-asia.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Prime Minister Naoto Kan … trade partner for Japan.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Disputes over military presence derail Kan’s agenda</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kyodo News 6/25 (Japan Times Online, 6/25/10, [[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100625a1.html]]) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kan took over earlier this month … for the first time last year.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Resolving those dispute is key to a LDP-DPJ coalition – agenda fails without</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Allen 7/14 (David, Staff Writer @ Stars & Stripes, “Japan election could impede Futenma progress” http://www.stripes.com/news/japan-election-could-impede-futenma-progress-1.110973)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kan’s position as head of the … understanding of Okinawa,” Okada said.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Scenario 1 is the Japanese Economy</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, Japan’s economy will collapse without the TPP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Yomiuri Shimbun 1/4 (Staff, “Policy changes needed to break economic deadlock”,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/editorial/T110104001356.htm) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Japanese economy's recovery has slowed to a … a 360 percent tariff, is 78 billion yen.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - That causes a global depression and wars throughout Asia</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Auslin 9 (Michael, resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, February 17, 2009, Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123483257056995903.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Recently, many economists and scholars … most heavily armed region.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Japan’s economy is on the brink and key to the world</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Snyder 10 (Michael, analytic writer, Intelligence Daily, The Coming Economic Collapse Of Japan – And Why You Should Be Extremely Concerned About It, http://inteldaily.com/2010/05/japan-economic-collapse/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(The Intelligence Daily) — Most Americans pay … the same period a year ago.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kerpen 8 (Phil policy director for American’s for Prosperity October 28, 2008 http://www.philkerpen.com/?q=node/201 From Panic to Depression? The dangers of blaming free trade, low taxes, and flexible labor markets)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It’s important that we … on an even greater scale. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Scnenario 2 is Free Trade</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, Japan’s participation in the TPP prevents trade blocs and bolsters free trade</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AFP 10 (Staff, “Obscure pact seen as seed for trans-Pacific free trade zone"11/11/10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">http://www.dawn.com/2010/11/11/obscure-pact-seen-as-seed-for-trans-pacific-free-trade-zone.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A little-known trade pact promoted …t of its gross domestic product.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Trade blocs cause global nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Spicer, Olin Foundation, 96 (The Challenge from the East and the Rebirth of the West, p. 121)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The choice facing the West … years ahead. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Free trade prevents nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">COPLEY 99, staff, NEWS SERVICE 12/1, December 1, 1999, LN.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">For decades, many children in America ... They should be celebrating it.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - No impact turns – all the evidence points aff</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Boudreux 6 (Donald J., Chairman of the econ dept. @ George Mason University, “Want world peace? Support free trade,” Christian Science Monitor, 11/20/6, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]], 1/10/10) JG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">During the past 30 years, Solomon …, harm to these foreigners. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 3 is China</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Scenario 1 – Rapid Military Modernization</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, Plan slows the pace of rapid modernization – reverse-causal evidence </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Smith 10 (Sheila A., 6/5, Sr. Fellow Japan Studies at Council of Foreign Relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">http://two--plus--two.blogspot.com/2010/06/point-of-view-sheila-smith-more-mature.html) JL</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The current tension between the … U.S. military presence in Japan,” he said. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Presence in Japan creates a Sino-American rivalry that causes modernization and leads to war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Damon 6 (Andre, writer @ WSWS, “Pentagon report targets China as a military threat”, 6/21/6, http://www.wsws.org/articles/2006/jun2006/chin-j21.shtml) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Pentagon delivered a report … makes its loss devastating.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Modernization collapses the CCP – leads to adventurism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Krawitz 3 (Howard M., Assistant Secretary for East Asian and Pacific Affairs @ U.S. Department of State, “Modernizing China's military: a high-stakes gamble?”, Strategic Forum, December 2003, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0QZY/is_203-204/ai_n13803180/pg_11/?tag=content;col1) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China is committed to modernizing … traditionally held by their elders.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - CCP Collapse leads to nuclear and biological world war that kills billions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Renxing 5 (San, Epic Times Staff Member, The CCP’s Last-ditch Gamble: Biological and Nuclear War, 8/5/5, The Epoch Times, http://english.epochtimes.com/news/5-8-5/30975.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">As The Epoch Times’ Nine … gamble with their lives.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Chinese adventurism creates regional instability and an arms race</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hwee 97 (Yeo Heng Hwee, BA degree in Political Science and and European Studies (French). He is currently a staff officer in 165 Sqn, RSAF, “The US-Japan-China Triangle: Maintaining Peace And Security In A Troubled East Asia”, V24 April-June 1998,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> http://www.mindef.gov.sg/safti/pointer/back/journals/1998/Vol24_2/6.htm) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A major source of instability …Republic of China (ROC) is a province of China.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Cross apply the Landy evidence – Nuclear War</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Scenario Two – Containment</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, Presence in Japan is perceived as containment which leads to miscalculation and war – plan solves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Eland 3 (Ivan, Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute, 1/23/3, “Is Chinese Military Modernization a Threat to the United States?”, CATO Policy Analysis No. 465, www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa465.pdf) JPG</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Of course, the U.S. government … of a confronta- tion with China.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Containments strategies promote competition over cooperation – the plan fosters trilateral relations between America, China, and Japan ensuring peace</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Xinbo 6 (Wu, professor at the Center for American Studies, Fudan University, and the Vice-President, Shanghai Institute of American Studies, “The End of the Silver Lining: A Chinese View of the U.S.-Japanese Alliance”, The Washington Quarterly, Winter 05-06, Volume 29 Issue 1, pp. 119-130, www.twq.com/06winter/docs/06winter_wuxinbo.pdf) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It is unrealistic, given its … re- gional peace and prosperity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Changing containment policies prevents war with China</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Christopher Layne 2007, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, 2007 ("The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415952034, p. 73-74)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">To be sure, the United States … is virtually certain.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - Economic integration can’t prevent conflict – all-out war is likely</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ferguson 9 (Neil, Staff Writer, NewsWeek, “'Chimerica' is Headed for Divorce”, Lexis) MAT</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">When does a rising power … strategic rivalry and, ultimately, conflict.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - US-China war is on the brink right now – escalates to World War 3</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">West 9 (James, Columnist, GoldSeek, “World War 3: U.S. versus China”, [[http://news.goldseek.com/GoldSeek/1236783600.php]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I recently had a conversation … a nuclear world war.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND - That draws in great powers – causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Straits Times (Singapore), 2000 (“Region[[#_GoBack]]al Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Available Online via Lexis-Nexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The high-intensity scenario postulates … sovereignty above everything else.</span>









==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">St. Francis 1AC</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">PLAN: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in Japan.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 1 is the SDF</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Scenario 1 is Regional Stability</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">American overstretch makes ground troops obsolete and makes conflict without checks more likely – SDF is key to check back China and North Korea and solve regional stability</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kurlantzick 2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Joshua, visiting scholar in the Carnegie Endowment's China Program and a special correspondent for The New Republic, Axis of good: the case for remilitarizing Japan</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">HYPERLINK "http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1316/"Washington Monthly, HYPERLINK "http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1316/is_2002_July-August/"July-August, 2002, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1316/is_2002_July-August/ai_90114011/pg_7/?tag=content;col1) JPG</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> SINCE SEPTEMBER II, THE WORST-case scenarios … but as responsible soldiers.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">East Asian instability leads to nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Landy 2k [Jonathon, National Security and International Correspondent, Knight Ridder, March 10, p. Lexis]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Few if any experts think China … shaky international nonproliferation regime.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">East Asia is the most likely area for conflict – multiple flashpoints, territorial disputes and lack of security cooperation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Dibb 1 (Paul Dibb is a Professor at the Australian National University, “Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review”, Winter/01, HYPERLINK "http://www.nwc.navy.mil/press/Review/2001/Winter/art2-w01.htm%29"http://www.nwc.navy.mil/press/Review/2001/Winter/art2-w01.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The areas of maximum danger … when confronted with major crises.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">North Korea and China are making northeast Asia increasingly instable – plan checks escalaion of war and allows Tokyo to police the region</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bandow 10 (Doug, Senior Fellow @ CATO Inst., “Okinawa and the Problem of Empire”, Huffington Post, 3/25/10, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/okinawa-and-the-problems_b_512610.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Thus, the issue of fairness to … justice -- after 65 long years.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Scenario 2 is Myanmar</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">An independent Japan is key to poverty reduction and stability in developing nations – specifically democratization of Myanmar</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Koimuzi 2 (Junichiro, former prime minister of Japan, Speech given @ Singapore, 1/14/2, http://www.aseansec.org/5801.htm) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Instability is not always … for so many years.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Democracy and human rights protection is key to Myanmar stability.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">M2 Presswire ‘7 (“United Nations: Speed Up Myanmar Reconciliation Process, Urges Secretary-General As His Special Adviser Briefs Security Council On Recent Visit; Deeply Concerned over Rights Violations, Members Call for End to Repression, Immediate Release of Political Prisoners”, 10-8, L/N)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> JORGE VOTO-BERNALES ( Peru) said … was of the utmost importance.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Myanmar collapse causes India-China war and massive instability.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Straits Times ‘7 (Janadas Devan, Senior Writer, “Wedged between a rock and a hard place”, 10-26, L/N)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Prevent Myanmar from breaking … theatre, one might add.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nuclear world war 3</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Dyer ‘5 (Gwynne, Independent Journalist, St. John’s Telegram, “India and China: avoiding the past”, 4-17, L/N)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It wasn't the sort of statement … confrontation, not towards it.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 2 is Kan (this is missing one card, it'll be up asap)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The plan allows Kan to focus on economic reforms and increases DPJ credibility</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kyodo News 6/25 (Japan Times Online, 6/25/10, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100625a1.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kan took over earlier … first time last year.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Economic reforms key to stave off economic collapse – DPJ credibility key to coalition building and end policy gridlock on fiscal reforms</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Parameswaran 7/14/8 (P., AFP's economics and financial correspondent in the Washington bureau, “IMF asks Japan to push ahead with sales tax hike”, 7/14/10, http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5irAcmmSliudxoC83M5WvfCbYPP3w) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> WASHINGTON — The IMF asked Japan … specter of policy gridlock.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Japan is key to the worlds economy – only a risk reform checks depression – collapse erodes the checks that prevent escalation of conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Wall Street Journal 9 (Michael Auslin resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. “Japan's Downturn Is Bad News for the World-The U.S. can't count on Japanese savers”, February 2009http:online.wsj.com/article/SB123483257056995903.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> As Hillary Clinton visits … world down with them.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Economic collapse causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kerpen 8 (Phil policy director for American’s for Prosperity October 28, 2008 http://www.philkerpen.com/?q=node/201 From Panic to Depression? The dangers of blaming free trade, low taxes, and flexible labor markets)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It’s important that we … an even greater scale.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 3 is China</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China’s rise is inevitable – US forward deployment necessitates Chinese military modernize its military to maintain regional dominance – withdrawal allows regional players to check China and decreases the likelihood of US-Sino conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bandow 09 (1/12/09, Doug, Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan, “First Among Equals,” HYPERLINK "http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20570"http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20570)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It’s the job of military … will be the transition.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">US permanent presence in Japan encourages rapid Chinese military modernization.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Smith 10 (Sheila A., 6/5, Sr. Fellow Japan Studies at Council of Foreign Relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> http://two--plus--two.blogspot.com/2010/06/point-of-view-sheila-smith-more-mature.html) JL</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The current tension … in Japan,” he said.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">US policy shapes China’s military development – forward deployment creates a strategic rivalry that kills regional stability – withdrawal sends a signal of trust that allows cooperation, that’s key to regional peace</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Xinbo 6 (Wu, professor at the Center for American Studies, Fudan University, and the Vice-President, Shanghai Institute of American Studies, “The End of the Silver Lining: A Chinese View of the U.S.-Japanese Alliance”, The Washington Quarterly, Winter 05-06, Volume 29 Issue 1, pp. 119-130, www.twq.com/06winter/docs/06winter_wuxinbo.pdf) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It is unrealistic, given … regional peace and prosperity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Military modernization collapses the CCP due to friction with the PLA – makes China militarist and adventurist</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Krawitz 3 (Howard M., Assistant Secretary for East Asian and Pacific Affairs @ U.S. Department of State, “Modernizing China's military: a high-stakes gamble?”, Strategic Forum, December 2003, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0QZY/is_203-204/ai_n13803180/pg_11/?tag=content;col1) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> China is committed to modernizing … held by their elders.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Chinese adventurism creates miscalculations that create a nuclear conflict with the US</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Roberts et al. 5 – PhD, Inst (Brad, January 26, “The Nuclear Dimension of a Taiwan Crisis,” For Defense Analysis, Ashley J. Tellis, senior associate @ Carnegie, and Michael Swaine, China expert @ Carnegie, , Carnegie Endowment,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> http://www.carnegieendowment.org/events/?fa=eventDetail&id=740)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Dr. Roberts began his presentation … on this important subject.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CCP Collapse leads to nuclear and biological world war – ensures China-US War that kills billions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Renxing 5 (San, Epic Times Staff Member, The CCP’s Last-ditch Gamble: Biological and Nuclear War, 8/5/5, The Epoch Times, http://english.epochtimes.com/news/5-8-5/30975.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> As The Epoch Times’ Nine … gamble with their lives.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2AC</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kritiks</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Fem IR</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1) Our projections of the world are accurate – every threat we isolate is real and dangerous, this gives us access to all of our case arguments</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. It’s empirically proven – wars throughout history prove that other nations will act with hostile intentions and in their own interests – conflict is real.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. response to disaster is necessary – their lack of real world engagement allows atrocities to occur</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sokal 96 (Professor of Physics at New York University, 1996 (“A Physicist Experiments With Cultural Studies”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">http://www.physics.nyu.edu/faculty/sokal/lingua_franca_v4/lingua_franca_v4.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Why did I do it? .., and falsity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C. The alternative doesn’t change our military posture or affect other actors – all of our advantages are accurate projections of the world post alternative</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Critiquing militarized masculinity from the outside fails</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Mazur 99 (Diane H. Mazur - Associate Professor of Law, U. of Florida. Captain, US Air Force, 1979-83 – 1999 Spring, 22 Harv. Women's L.J. 39 “A CALL TO ARMS”)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The deliberate distance that … expertise of women.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3. Permutation – do the affirmative and all non-exclusive parts of the alternative</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The perm simultaneously exposes critical issues with social relations and engages real world issues – it’s a pre-requisite to effective feminist projects</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">New 4 (Caroline, Law @ ANU, Critical Realism, www.raggedclaws.com/criticalrealism/archive/ALETHIAv1n1_new2.pdf)IM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Like most poststructuralist feminists, … needs to be critical.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The militarized masculinity promoted at US bases in Japan drives soldiers to commit heinous crimes against women</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kirk 99 (New Jersey Chair in Women’s Studies, PhD from University of London in Sociology, “Women and the US military in East Asia”, Graduate Diploma in Town Planning, B.A. in Sociology from Leeds University)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Military personnel are trained to dehumanize … perhaps back to the United States.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The affirmative is a challenge to militarized domination of women in okinawa – we are a pre-requisite to their critique</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Fukumura and Matsuoka 9 (Yoko Fukumura and Martha Matsuoka, ed. Janice A. Radway, doctoral student at UC Santa Cruz and assistant professor of Urban and Environmental Policy at Occidental College respectively, 2009, “Redefining Security: Okinawa Women’s Resistance to US Militarism” from American Studies) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The visibility of the issues of women … armed conflict.”</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Disads</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rearm</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. No link – US military presence doesn’t include nuclear weapons – plan doesn’t kill deterrence</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Japan cannot get nuclear weapons – lacks the logistical pre-requisites, strongly opposed by the public and government, and its politically impossible</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Chanlett-Avery and Nikitin 9 (Emma, specialist in Asian affairs @ Congressional Research Service (CRS) and Mary Beth, analyst in non-proliferation @ CRS, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects and US Interests”, 2/19/9, www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Japan, traditionally one of … traditional approach is analyzed.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3. Creates a double bind – either Japan has the appropriate tools to develop nuclear weapons and it triggers the perception internal link to the arms race impact OR they can’t develop weapons and it’s a non-unique disad</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">4. Won’t go nuclear – fear of China retaliation and US pressure</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alford 6 (Peter, Tokyo correspondent, http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/why-japan-refuses-to-go-nuclear/story-e6frg6so-1111112431186) CBC</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"There is no change in Japan's … the US or in collapse."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">5. No link – military presence in Korea would eliminate any reason why withdrawing conventional forces would cause Japan to develop nukez</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">6. No arms race – Asia will remain non-nuclear</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Furukawa 3 (Katsuhisa Furukawa, Senior Research Associate Center for Nonproliferation Studies, Stimson Center, NUCLEAR POLICY, DISARMAMENT DIPLOMACY, AND TECHNICAL CONSIDERATIONS, December 2003 p.108)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">For example, in the spring of 2003, … nuclear arms control and nonproliferation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">7. A nuclear armed Japan is the key internal link to a stable Asia and sustainable US-Chinese relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">White 8 (Hugh, professor of Defence and Strategic Studies at the ANU, “[[http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2008/07/16/Why-Japan-might-have-to-go-nuclear.aspx|Why Japan might have to go nuclear]]”, 7/16/8, http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2008/07/16/Why-Japan-might-have-to-go-nuclear.aspx) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I should have known Sam … for a stable Asian region. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nuclear weapons eliminate forceful solutions to conflict and force Asian nations into diplomatic settlements.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alagappa 8 (Muthiah Senior Fellow@East-West Center, “Nuclear Weapons Reinforce Security and Stability in 21st Century Asia” http://globalasia.org/articles/issue9/iss9_17.html)KM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Not a Barrier to Peaceful Conflict Resolution: … and control of Kashmir. </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>



=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">DA's</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Midterms DA</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Dems are statistically even nationally and have a narrow advantage in key areas</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CQ Politics, 9-16-10. “Dead Even in the Generic Congressional Ballot,” [[http://politicalwire.com/archives/2010/09/16/dead_even_in_the_generic_congressional_ballot.html?utm_source=twitterfeed&utm_medium=twitter&utm_campaign=political-wire]].</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A new Politico ... hold on power."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">But withdrawal tanks Democrats chances</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kagan ‘10 (Robert, March 5, Senior associate@Carnegie Endowment, “On Foreign Policy, Obama and the GOP Find Room for Agreement”, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40298)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Perfect bipartisanship on ... U.S. involvement overseas.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T﻿he midterms determine the fate of climate legislation – Democrats are try or die but need a strong political coalition to get it done</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Hill, 9-15-10. “Kerry forecasts cloudy future for comprehensive Senate climate bill,” E2 – The Hill’s Environment Blog, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/e2-wire/677-e2-wire/118871-kerry-forecasts-cloudy-future-for-senate-climate-bill]].</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.) — whose ... we’re going to get it done.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Energy reform cuts pollution and moves toward Copenhagen climate goals</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Reuters ‘10 (May 10, National Post News Services, “US Sentat Bill on Climate Change”,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.vancouversun.com/news/senate+bill+climate+change/3020950/story.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> U.S. Senator John Kerry ratcheted ... US$5-billion in tax credits.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Increased emissions will accelerate warming</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sanders 5 (Roberts, Professor at UC Berkeley, Fossil Fuel Emissions can Overwhelm Planet’s ability to absorb carbon, Earth Observatory, 8-3-5, http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Newsroom/view.php?id=27638)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> One in a new generation of ... climate warming accelerates.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Warming culminates in extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stein 6 (David, Science Editor for the Guardian, “Global Warming Xtra: Scientists Warn about Antarctic melting, http://www.agoracosmopolitan.com/home/Frontpage/2008/07/14/02463.html, AD: 7-8-9)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Global Warming continues to be ... to man in the world we share.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">South Korea PKO DA</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">U.S. presence is giving South Korea the security and cover to boost its role in world security – especially peacekeeping operations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Axe, 10 – independent military correspondent based in South Carolina. He has reported from Iraq, Afghanistan, East Timor, Lebanon, Somalia, Chad and other conflict zones (4/27/10, David, The Diplomat“South Korea’s Secret War,” [[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/04/27/south-koreas-secret-war/]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> More than half a .... and impossible to maintain.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">ROK peacekeepers are key to anti-piracy forums</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Twining, 10 – Senior Fellow for Asia at the German Marshall Fund of the United States (4/1/10, Daniel, “Strengthening the U.S.-Korea Alliance for the 21st Century,” http://www.gmfus.org/galleries/ct_publication_attachments/AsiaDanTwiningU.S.KoreaAlliance.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Another new multilateral ... other functional realms.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Piracy causes oil spikes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Yusef, 09 -- Foreign Policy In Focus contributor and a program officer at the Engaging Governments on Genocide Prevention Program (EGGP) at George Mason University (Hussein, Foreign Policy in Focus, “What's Next for Somalia.” ed. John Feffer, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/whats_next_for_somalia]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This neglect resulted ,,, longer shipping routes.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Oil price spike collapses the global economy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kenneth M. Pollack (Director of Research at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Brookings Institution. From 1995 to 1996 and 1999 to 2001, he served as Director for Persian Gulf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Affairs on the staff of the National Security Council) 2003 “ Securing the Gulf “</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> America's primary interest ... along with everybody else's.</span>



===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Regime Collapse DA</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Regime collapse is evitable – multiple warrants prove.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ramstad 10 (Evan, Wall Street Journal reporter, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB20001424052702304434404575149520133311894.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> SEOUL—North Korea's authoritarian ... of a failed government."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Link/Internal Link – US presence is key to check back loose nukes post-collapse.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">O’Hanlon 4/30 (Michael E., Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy, “OpCon Transfer or OpCon Confusion: Making the Best of a Dubious Idea,” The Brookings Institution, April 30, 2010, [[[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0430_korea_ohanlon.aspx]]] AD: 6/4/10, jm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Well, my response to that ... ROK roles and U.S. roles.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Those get distributed on the black market, resulting in nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Campbell and O’Hanlon 6 (Kurt, CSIS and Michael, Brookings, “Hard Power: The New Politics of National Security, p. 230)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> There are several reasons ... global nonproliferation more broadly.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">GNP DA</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The GNP will push through economic reforms this year</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Reuters 8/30 (S.Korea's Lee seeks ethical government to ensure growth)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lee is heading into ... at the session.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">US withdrawal forces South Korean militarism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bandow 8 (Doug, the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance, 6/9, "Ending the U.S.-Korea Alliance," http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=17812, AD: 6/19/10) jl</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Yet the alliance remains ... South Korea’s defense?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That tanks support for the GNP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Zumwalt 6/16 (James, Straff Writer, " North Korea's Influence on South Korea's Elections," http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=37501, AD: 6/16/10) jl</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> One of the GNP’s major ... for the ship’s loss.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lack of unity within the GNP collapses the agenda</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Young-bin 6/10 (Kwon, Staff Writer for Joongangdaily, "[Viewpoint] The GNP needs to reform and unite," http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=2921640, AD: 6/17/10) jl</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Modesty and open-mindedness ... and find social unity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Reforms are key to South Korea’s economy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">SteelGuru 6/16 ("South Korea to push for balanced economic policies in H2," http://www.steelguru.com/news/index/MTUwOTE1/South_Korea_to_push_for_balanced_economic_policies_in_H2.html, AD: 6/19/10) jl</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Yonhap reported that South ... to stave off inflation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">South Korean Economy is key to Chinese Economic Growth</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Yang 5/29 (Fang, Staff Writer, http://www.gov.cn/english/2010-05/29/content_1616391.htm, AD: 6/20/10) jl</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The economies of China ... and personnel exchanges.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nuclear War</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plate 3 (Tom, Prof Communications and Public – UCLA, Straights Times, 6-28)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> But imagine a China disintegrating ... now seems to prefer.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CMR DA</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Uniqueness – It’s the brink for CMR</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Penza 6/23 (Logan, The Moderate Voice, http://themoderatevoice.com/77600/mcchrystal-no-threat-to-american-civil-military-relations/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+themoderatevoice+%28The+Moderate+Voice%29)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Fallout continues in the ... Guam to meet Truman.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. Link – unilateral military withdrawal deepens an ongoing civil-military crisis that’s on the brink – consultation solves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ackerman 8 (Spencer, “Military experts to Obama: Don’t get rolled by top brass,” Colorado Independent, 11-14, [[http://coloradoindependent.com/15149/military-experts-to-obama-dont-get-rolled-by-top-brass]])JFSDuring his July trip to Iraq, Sen. Barack Obama met with a man ... the nation has forgotten.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CMR is key to preventing Pakistani collapse</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Frederick Barton and Noam Unger, ‘9. Barton is Codirector, Post-Conflict Reconstruction Project and Senior Adviser, International Security Program at the CSIS. Unger is fellow and policy director of the Foreign Assistance Reform project at Brookings. “civil-military relations, fostering development, and expanding civilian capacity ,” [[http://csis.org/publication/civil-military-relations-fostering-development-and-expanding-civilian-capacity]].</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The security rationale for stability... crises in the future.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Extinction – ozone depletion, famine, disease outbreaks, food riots, escalatory war, and global cooling</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Loretz 8 (John, Program Director of International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, May 16, http://www.ippnw.org/ ResourceLibrary/ NPTPrepCom2008.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The studies looked at ... access to food supplies.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Impact Overview</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The DA outweighs the case –</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">( ) It’s an expert-consensus top-3 potential cause of nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Moran, ‘9</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> . Michael, “Beyond "Af-Pak",” Global Post, 3-4, [[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/worldview/090304/beyond-af-pak?page=0,0]].</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the world viewed through ... Kashmir is 1, 2, or 3.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Multiple factors indicate Pakistan is about to collapse</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Coming Depression 5/3 (a news source about the stability of the international economy, http://www.thecomingdepression.net/countries/eurasia/pakistan-on-verge-of-bankruptcy/)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “The ratings agency Standard ... is don’t do them.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Decrease in civil-military relations increases the chance of accidental nuclear launches - this outweighs on probaility</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sagan, Associate Professor of Political Science and Chair of the International Relations Program, Stanford University, and a consultant to the Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Office of the Secretary of defense, and the Los Alamos National Laboratory, ’95 (The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: A Debate, this is Sagan’s response to Waltz, Ford Professor of Political Science, UC Berkeley, pg. 83)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Third, accident prone nuclear ... alarming than previously recognized.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Uniqueness Wall</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Civil military relations are high</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Military concessions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">LA Times 7/1 (http://articles.latimes.com/2010/jul/01/opinion/la-oew-0701-archer-20100701)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A June 23 op-ed by Bruce ... exercise their right to vote.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. Cooperation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rogan 7/1 (Josh, writer for Foreign Policy, http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/07/01/holbrooke_everybody_on_the_afghanistan_team_gets_along_great)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Despite what you may ... not on the same page.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C. Obama</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Korski 6/24 (Daniel, contributor to The Spectator, http://www.spectator.co.uk/coffeehouse/6100798/hail-to-the-chief.thtml)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> How wrong I was. ... the United States.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC A2: McChrystal Non-unique</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, Penza proves this wrong – it just proves a brink</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Second, firing McChrystal saved CMR</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ampikaipan 6/29 (Umapagan, reporter for newstraitstimes.com, [[http://www.nst.com.my/nst/articles/Inrealpolitics_expectno__8216_WestWing__8217_moments/Article/]]) GAT</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Despite Gen Stanley McChrystal’s ... subservient to the civilian.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, perception</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Haddick 6/22 (Robert, writer for Small Wars Journal, http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/2010/06/mcchrystal-will-get-a-red-card/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It is hard to believe ... among Obama’s civilian staff.</span>










===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Japanese Nuclear Rearmament DA</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Rearmament will take the form of nuclear weapons</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bakanic 9 (Elizabeth, Board of Atomic Scientists, The Bulletin, “The end of Japan’s nuclear taboo”, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-end-of-japans-nuclear-taboo) CBC</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ever since the ... traction in Japanese politics.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Japan proliferation causes east asian arms race</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Chanlett-Avery and Niktin 9 (Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, and Mary-Beth Nikitin, Analyst in Non-proliferation, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests, Congressional Research Service, 2-19-09)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> To many security experts, ... potential stabilizing factors.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Arms race in Asia causes global nuclear war --- strategic, cultural and political factors make escalation likely.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cimbala 8 (Stephen Cimbala, Professor of Political Science at Penn State University, March 2008, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia,” Comparative Strategy, 27:2, informaworld)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The spread of nuclear weapons in Asia ... of major interstate warfare.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This escalates to global nuclear annihilation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ogura 97 (Toshimaru Ogura, Toyama University Political Economy Professor, and Ingyu Oh, West England University Bristol Business School Int'l Business Senior Lecturer, "Nuclear clouds over the Korean peninsula and Japan," April 1997) [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1132/is_n11_v48/ai_19693242/pg_7]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> North Korea, South Korea, ... escalate into a global conflagration.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">F-22's Sales DA</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Japan is pushing for the US to sell them F-22’s and there is some support</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Aviation Week 6/3/09 (Japanese F-22 Campaign Lives On, http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/storyychannel.jsp?channel=defense&id=news/JF22060309.xml&headline=Japanese%20F-22%20Campaign%20Lives%20On)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Japanese defense officials ... make the argument themselves."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The US will be forced to approve sale of the F-22 to Japan after withdrawing to alleviate concerns about defense</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Chanlett-Avery 8 (Emma, Analyst in Asian Affairs at the Congressional Research Service, 5/9/08</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests, CRS Report for Congress, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/08058CRS.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> U.S. Security Commitment. Perhaps t.... trust in the alliance.28</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Exportation of the f-22 raptor crushes u.s. hegemony, u.s. competitiveness, collapses u.s. relations with china & south korea, and triggers proliferation and an unstable asian arms race</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bolkcom and Chanlett-Avery, 2007 (Christopher, Emma, Both from the Foreign Affairs, Defense and Trade Division of the Congressional Research Service, “Potential F-22 Raptor Export to Japan”, CRS Report for Congress, July, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/crs/rs22684.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Technology Transfer. Air Force ... Japan as coming at their expense.</span>



===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Khaaaaaaaaan!!! DA</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kan is pushing economic reforms – opposition to basing disables economic reform and creates political deadlock</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nakamichi 7/30/10 (Takashi, writer @ the Wall Street Journal, “Kan Backs Away from Tax”, 7/30/10, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703999304575398891637327772.html?mod=googlenews_wsj) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> TOKYO—Japan's beleaguered ... at all" about doing so.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Economic reforms kill a Japanese economic recovery – lack of opposition, fiscally unsound policies and lack of competition</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bremmer and Roubini 9 (Ian and Nouriel, Ian - president of Eurasia Group & Nouriel - professor of economics at New York University's Stern School of Business and chairman of RGE Monitor Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704779704574553491570666698.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In some ways, Mr. ... is riding on it.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Collapse of Japanese economy triggers global economic collapse – resiliency arguments don’t apply to this crisis</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">EAD 5/4/10 (Independent News Outlet “The Coming Economic Collapse of Japan and Why you should be Extremely concerned about it”, http://endoftheamericandream.com/archives/the-coming-economic-collapse-of-japan-and-why-you-should-be-extremely-concerned-about-it)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Most Americans pay very l... period a year ago.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Economic collapse causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kerpen 8 (Phil policy director for American’s for Prosperity October 28, 2008 http://www.philkerpen.com/?q=node/201 From Panic to Depression? The dangers of blaming free trade, low taxes, and flexible labor markets)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It’s important that we ... even greater scale.</span>



==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Counterplans</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">South Korea QPQ CP</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should [plan] on the condition that the Democratic Peoples’ Republic of Korea signs the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, the US can condition its withdrawal on North Korea signing the NPT.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kristensen 6 (Hans, Federation of American Scientists, “The United States Nuclear Umbrella Over South Korea” [[http://www.nukestrat.com/korea/umbrella.htm]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Finally, there is the ... [[http://www.nukestrat.com/korea/JointStatement091905.pdf|Six-Party Talks]].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Second, North Korea will say yes - pressured by 47 countries unanimously</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Doo-Hyong 4/13 (Hwang, Contributor to Yonhap News Agency, 4/13/10, http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2010/04/14/39/0301000000AEN20100414000300315F.HTML) GAT</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> South Korea's hosting of ... community," Snyder said.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Third, North Korea is critical for the overall credibility of the NPT – now is key</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">UNIS 5 (United Nations Information Service, http://www.unis.unvienna.org/unis/pressrels/2005/dc2969.html)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> YOSHIKI MINE (Japan) said it ... through the six-party talks.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">NPT is the best and only option we have – it’s try or die from massive nuclear wars</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Krieger 9 (David, Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, May 2 2009, http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/05/02_krieger_npt_boldness.php?krieger)IM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Today, nearly four decades ... world deserve a voice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">NK ratification would be a win for Obama – he’s been pushing it; shields the link to politics</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Matishak 9 (Martin, Global Security Newswire, July 21 2009, http://gsn.nti.org/gsn/nw_20090721_8009.php)IM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> WASHINGTON -- U.S. President ... ensure success.</span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Impact Stuff</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Turns case – NPT key to regional stability</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Glaser 9 (Bonnie, China Security, Aug. 2 2009, http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=287)IM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A nuclear-armed North ... f a reunified Korean Peninsula.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We’ll win on timeframe - The NPT is on the brink, the CP solves it</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Chan 5/30 (Hoishan, Asahi, http://watchingamerica.com/News/57500/keeping-the-nuclear-non-proliferation-treaty-alive/)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Resistance to the Nuclear ... awareness of danger.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Says Yes Wall</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">North Korea would agree</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) Foreign minister Paek quote</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">XNA 5 (Xinhua News Agency, http://www.china.org.cn/english/features/talks/137089.htm)JFS [Note: Paek = North Korean Foreign Minister Paek Nam-sun]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "We will have neither ... North," Paek said.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B) Kim Jong Il quote</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">INA 5 (Interfax News Agency, Lexis/Nexis)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In his words, Kim ... from the US side".</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C) South Korean pressure</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">YNA 8 (Yonhap News Agency, Lexis/Nexis)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Vienna, Sept. 30 (Yonhap) - North ... to the Non-Proliferation Treaty.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">D) IAEA pressure</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Yon-Se 7 (Kim, The Korea Times, “IAEA Expects North Korea to Rejoin the NPT”, http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2007/07/116_6353.html)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> IAEA Director General ElBaradei ... resolve the issue.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">E) They hate troops in south korea</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lee 10 (Sung-Yoon, Adjunct Assistant Prof of International Politics @ the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy @ Tufts, “Engaging North Korea: The Clouded Legacy of South Korea’s Sunshine Policy”, April 2010 )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Remarkably, upon returning home ... pullback from South Korea."[13]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">F) Making concessions is key</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Feffer 2k (John, American Friends Service Committee in the East Asia Quaker International Affairs Program “In Focus: A New Era for the Korean Peninsula” 5(18), June 2000)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cancel joint exercises with South Korea... through a multilateral framework.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Consult the Joint Chiefs of Staff CP</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Text: The President of the United States should engage in prior and binding consultation with the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the Unites States over whether to [plan]. The result of the consultation will be implemented.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">JCS will say yes – but must be consulted.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Grotto & Cirincione, ‘8 [Andrew & Joe, Center for American Progress & Ploughshares Fund, “Orienting the 2009 Nuclear Posture Review” November 2008, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2008/11/pdf/nuclear_posture.pdf]]] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Consult and engage the Joint Chiefs ... into the review process.</span>



===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Executive Order CP</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Text: The President of the United States should <insert the plan></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Presidents have traditionally used their executive authority to control military redeployment.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cooper 2 (Phillip, Prof of Public Administration @ Portland State, By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The deployment of troops ... invasion of Grenada.ml</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Executive Orders are not perceived</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Mayer 01 (Kenneth, Proff. Of Polt. Science Univ. of Wisconsin, Princeton Univ., “With the Stroke of a Pen: Executive Orders and Presidential Power”, p. 10, http://www.questiaschool.com/read/103282967?title=With%20the%20Stroke%20of%20a%20Pen%3a%20Executive%20Orders%20and%20Presidential%20Power) CBC</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Despite the apparent ... this kind is limited.” [[http://www.questiaschool.com/read/103283201|51]]</span>



==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kritiks...</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Schmitt</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This is missing a Human Rights Link - that'll be up soon</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Violence is inevitable – liberal doctrines of inclusion intensify conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rasch 5 (William, Henry H. H. Remak Professor of Germanic Studies at India University, South Atlantic Quarterly, 104:2, AD: 6/21/10) jl</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> There is a song by Leonard Cohen ... or some other pathological behavior.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative to draw lines between friends and enemies.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This ensures wars do not reach the point of genocide.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rasch 5 (William Rasch, Prof. of German Studies, Indiana, 2005, Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle,// p.260-61)NAR</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> What is to be done?... nightmares of absolute exclusion.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Identity Impact</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">New impact – universalism leads to sameness that kills identity – friend/enemy distinctions are key to reclaim this – without identity we are empty bodies</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Norman 9 (Emma R. Norman, University of the Americas Puebla, Mexico Department of International Relations and Political Science, September 4th 2009, Applying Carl Schmitt to Global Puzzles: Identity, Conflict and the Friend/Enemy Antithesis, p28-9) NAR</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The friend side of the equation... underlying raison d’être: identity .</span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC A2: Perm</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Perm is worse – framing politics with an ethical theology destroys the political – the alternative must stand alone.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rasch 4 (William, Prof. of German Studies, Indiana U, Sovereignty and its Discontents, Birkbeck Law Press, pg. 3-4) my</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In opposition to the near universal ... chapters that follow.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Our alternative is mutually exclusive with the aff – friend/enemy distinctions cannot coexist with the affirmative conception of the political</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Moreiras 04 (Alberto Moreiras, academic and cultural theorist, Director of European Studies at Duke, 2004, “A God without Sovereignty. Political Jouissance. The Passive Decision”, CR: The New Centennial Review 4.3, p. 79-80) NAR</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The friend/enemy division is peculiar ... produces its own political divisions.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Etc.</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Framework</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Interpretation: The affirmative must present and defend the hypothetical implementation of a substantial reduction of military and/or police presence by the United States federal governmental in one or more of the following countries: Japan, South Korea, Iraq, Afghanistan, Turkey, and Kuwait.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Resolved” proves the framework for the resolution is to enact a policy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Words and Phrases 64 Permanent Edition</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Definition of the word “resolve,” given by Webster is “to express an opinion or determination by resolution or vote; as ‘it was resolved by the legislature;” It is of similar force to the word “enact,” which is defined by Bouvier as meaning “to establish by law”.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The USFG is the government in Washington D.C.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Encarta Online Encyclopedia 2k HYPERLINK "http://encarta.msn.com" http://encarta.msn.com</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “The federal government of the United States is centered in Washington DC”__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This is a prior question that must be resolved first – it is a pre-condition for debate to occur</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Shively, 2k (Assistant Prof Political Science at Texas A&M, Ruth Lessl, Partisan Politics and Political Theory, p. 181-2)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The requirements given thus far ... basic agreement or harmony.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Limits are key – their interpretation would allow *limitless* contexts for advocacy that only tangentially relate to the topic. The breadth of political theory magnifies the importance of limits on discourse</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lutz 2k (Donald S. Professor of Polisci at Houston, Political Theory and Partisan Politics p. 39-40)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Aristotle notes in the Politics ... of actual political systems.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Abandoning politics cedes it to the elites – causes war, slavery, and authoritarianism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Boggs 2k (CAROL BOGGS, PF POLITICAL SCIENCE – SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, 00, THE END OF POLITICS, 250-1)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> But it is a very deceptive ... Burkean muddling-through theories.</span>

==Specific Rounds== 
I can only remember berkeley and stanford for the time being

STANFORD 
Round 1 v. St Mary's Biopower Aff
1NC - Schmitt, Framework, Case
2NC - Framework, Schmitt
1NR - Case
2NR - Case, Framework

Round 4 v. Ashland MM's Kuwait Slaves Aff
1NC - XO, Politics, Schmitt, Framework, Topicality - Military Presence
2NC - XO, Case
1NR - T, Politics
2NR - Politics, XO, Case

Round 5 v. Meadows' South Korea Aff
1NC - CMR, JCS, North Korean Collapse, Case
2NC - CMR, Case
1NR - JCS, Case
2NR - CMR, JCS

Round 7 v. Pine Crest
1NC - Consult Kuwait, Kuwait Relations, XO, Politics, Iran Expansionism DA
2NC - XO, Case
1NR - Politics, Iran
2NR - XO, Politics, Case

Octos v. NU's Colonialism Aff
1NC - XO, Kickout Counterplan with Soft-Power Bad Net Benefit, Topicality - Substantial, Politics, Case
2NC - Kickout Counterplan, Case
1NR - Politics, T
2NR - Kickout, Politics, Case

Quarters v. Chicago Lab's Queers Aff
1NC - XO, Politics, Speaking for Others/Queer Optimism Hybrid, Case
2NC - Queer Optimism, Case
1NR - Speaking for Others
2NR - Queer Optimism, Speaking for Others, Case

Sems v. St. Marks' South Korea Aff
1NC - Vagueness, XO, Politics, North Korea DA, Case
2NC - Vagueness, XO, Case
1NR - Politics, Case
2NR - Politics, Case













<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]</span>