=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

DE AC

V:Morality

Will defend implementation/neg can specify

Within a moral framework, harming of innocents permissible if not inteded.

Allison Hills "Defending Double Effect" Philosophical Studies: An international journal for philosophy in analytic tradition. 2003.
"The focus of...bringing it about"

prefer for 3 reasons.
1) When you intend a negative harm, you devalue the humans by using them as a mere tool. 
Warren Quinn. "Actions, INtentions and Consequences: the doctrine of double effect." Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 18, No. 4. (Autumn, 1989).
"What seems specifically...the agent's goal."

Treating people as though they only exist for an external purpose undermines any moral theory.
Warren Quinn. "Actions, Intentions, and Consequences: The Doctrine of Doing and Allowing" The Philosophical Review.
"Whether we are...really being ours."

2) There are unique moral harms that occur when you intend harm to a victim. 
Thomas Nagel. The View from Nowhere. New York: Oxford UP, 1989. Print. Pages 25-26
"So far this...of this restriction"

3) Only an ethic that forbids the intending of harm takes adequate concern for the moral implications on the victims. 
Nagel 2
"I have concentrated...aiming to destroy."

AB: possession of nukes intends to cause harm to those who don't deserve it

First, nuclear weapons, even if never used, use people as a means to an end by holding them hostage.

Steven Lee "Morality, Prudence, and nuclear weapons" Cambridge University Press, 1993. pg. 45.
"Making nuclear threats...of that policy"

Second, possession of nuclear weapons means there are different things that we can use them for like blackmail. Conditionally intending harm is bad too.
Gregory Kavka "Some Paradoxes of Deterrence" The Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 75, No. 6 (Jun., 1978), pp. 285-302
"Let us return...form the intention"

Third, possession of nuclear weapons requires adjustments to maintain a nuclear threat.

Gerald Dworkin "Nuclear Intentions" Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence, April 1985.
"It must be...threats are empty"

Finally, Sagan explains why possession of nukes leads to misuse. 
Scott Sagan "The Perils of Proliferation: Organizational Theory, Deterrence Theory, and the Spread of Nuclear WEapons" International Security Vol. 18, No. 4, 1994. 
"Waltz asked: why...of nuclear weapons"

[Only for round 4]
Extinction doesn't preclude because
1) I evaluate the means which comes prior to the end
2) we can't be certain of extinction, so if I win violation the framework is sufficient
3) it makes no sense to justify the effects of an ethical theory before determining the ethical framework for evaluating it


<span style="display: block; line-height: 22pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Daniel Geller, “Nuclear Weapons, Deterrence, and Crisis Escalation,” [[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=jconfreso|__The Journal of Conflict Resolution__]] Vol. 34, No. 2 (Jun., 1990), pp. 291-310 Published by: [[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=sage|__Sage Publications, Inc.__]]http://www.jstor.org/stable/174196</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 22pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">"This analysis has...and violent one"</span>


[Only for round 6]
States are moral agents because 
a) Governments are already treated as rational actors in international relations and it is perfectly functioning. 
Thomas Donaldson "International Deontology defended: A response to Russell Hardin." Published in Ethics and International Affairs 1995. Vol. 9.
"Hardin first rejects...satisfy this condition.
b) moral rules still apply to policymakers in the nation
c) the resolution pre-supposes a rational actor

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Democracy AC </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">V:Morality </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">government must be consistent with authority to be legitimate need authority to have nuclear weapons </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Rousseau, Jean Jacques. “The Social Contract or Principles of Political Right”. 1762. Translated by G.D.H Cole. http://www.ruthdunn.org/Rousseau's%20The%20Social%20Contract.pdf "I suppose men...most frightful abuse" </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Individual have self-determination that government must respect. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Rousseau 2 "The public force...would be dissolved" </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Government loses authority to act. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">VC: consistency with democratic checks prefer the standard because: </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">1) governments only moral agents because of the moral personhood of the people, thus must be the focus </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">2) Free discussion and dissent are pre-requsities to accurate formation of principles of rights. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Amartya Sen [Thomas W. Lamont University Professor, and Professor of Economics and Philosophy, at Harvard University and was until recently the Master of Trinity College, Cambridge. He has served as President of the Econometric Society, the Indian Economic Association, the American Economic Association and the International Economic Association. He was formerly Honorary President of OXFAM and is now its Honorary Advisor]“Development as Freedom” Anchor Books. 1999. "The instrumental roles...permitted or not" </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">3) Individuals have a right to democracy in matters of self-defense because when you attack someone, you forfeit your right to be protected and people should have a say in forfeiting their rights. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">4) Democratic rights best recognize the worth of individuals because they are directly empowered Also, people have worth so their decision ought to be recognized directly </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Subpoint A. Nuclear weapons put too much power in the hands of too few. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Richard H. Ullman [Director of the 1980s Project of the Council on Foreign Relations and Professor of International Affairs at Princeton University] “Denuclearizing International Politics” Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence(Apr., 1985), pp. 567-588, University of Chicago Press. "The second consideration...national nuclear capability" </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Subpoint B. Nuclear weapons require a form of undemocratic society. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Sissela Bok [Formerly a Professor of Philosophy at Brandeis University, Sissela Bok is currently a Senior Visiting Fellow at the Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, Harvard School of Public Health.] “Distrust, Secrecy, and the Arms Race” Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence(Apr., 1985), pp. 712-727, University of Chicago Press. "Secrecy is equally...confronted their nations" </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> </span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> </span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> </span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Categorical Imperative AC </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">I value morality </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Human beings’ ability to rationally self-reflect is how we derive all forms of reason and value. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Christine Korsgaard, The Sources of Normativity . 1996. And this … reflection is done. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Rationality is the only thing that is not regressive </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Lewis, C.S. Miracles. 1942. Collins. Print. But the very … getting inside again. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">This practical reason of humans necessitates a moral maxim be universalized to all rational agents. Stephen Engstrom, The Form of Practical Knowledge, Harvard University Press, 2009, p. 124-125. As we saw, … of practical knowledge. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Therefore humans are necessarily ends in themselves, as they are capable of rational self-reflection. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Rejecting individuals’ right to not be used as a means to and end, or outer freedom, is rationally contradictory. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Engstrom. Universal Law as the Form of Practical Knowledge. 18. Now on the … the same freedom. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Thus, the sufficient affirmative burden is to prove that possession of nuclear weapons uses people as a means to an end. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Evaluating action solely based on the ends they produce leads to a contradiction by failing to respect the inherent value of individuals </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Seiriol Morgan (2009). Can There Be a Kantian Consequentialism? Ratio 22 (1):19-40. “In my view, … which I doubt.” </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">We can’t predict the consequences of an action </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">I contend that the possession of nuclear weapons uses people as a means to an end. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Nuclear weapons are especially dependent on technology. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Thomas Donaldson “Nuclear Deterrence and Self-Defense” Source:Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear The critical moral… culpable or insane. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Nuclear weapons, even if never used, use people as a means to an end by holding them hostage. Nuclear deterrence and strategy is dependent on nations’ ability to harm innocents. However, the possibility of this harm is always in violation of the standard. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Steven Lee [professor of philosophy at Hobart & William Smith Colleges] “Morality, prudence, and nuclear weapons” Cambridge University Press, 1993. pg. 45 Making nuclear threats … of that policy. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">This violates the standard by using individuals as a means to the end of coercion of another state. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Conditionally intending an action is wrong </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Gregory S. Kavka. “Some Paradoxes of Deterrence.” The Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 75, No. 6 (Jun., 1978), pp. 285-302 Let us return… entails having it). </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Finally, the risk of failure and retaliation is real. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Scott Sagan [Professor of political science and co-director of Stanford’s Center for International Security and Cooperation .] “The Perils of Proliferation: Organizational Theory, Deterrence Theory, and the Spread of Nuclear Weapons” International Security , Volume 18, No. 4, 1994. JSTOR. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Waltz asked: why… of nuclear weapons.lo6</span></span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> </span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="line-height: 19px;">Non-domination AC</span></span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 26px;"> I value **MORALITY**,

I advocate a metaethical framework of practical reason,

<span style="color: black;">Christine Korsgaard, The Sources of Normativity . 1996. And this … reflection is done.</span> </span></span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 10pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"><span style="color: black; line-height: 26px;">Rationality gives agents reason to act on moral statements.
Further, rationality is the only thing that is not regressive</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 26px;"> Lewis, C.S. Miracles. 1942. Collins. Print. But the very … getting inside again.</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 26px;"> Therefore humans are necessarily ends in themselves, as they are capable of rational self-reflection.</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 26px;"> Rejecting individuals’ right to not be used as a means to and end, or outer freedom, is rationally contradictory.</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 26px;"> Engstrom. Universal Law as the Form of Practical Knowledge. 18. Now on the … the same freedom. </span>

<span style="line-height: 26px;"> Second, domination of other’s ability to express their will is impermissible because it denies their agency. Barbara Herman explains,
Barbara Herman, The practice of moral judgment Harvard University Press, 1993</span>

<span style="line-height: 26px; margin-left: 0.5in;">“Here is where …**__for rational agents__**__.__” </span>

<span style="line-height: 26px;"> Therefore, the standard is **consistency with non-domination**, as Ripstein explains:</span>


<span style="line-height: 26px;"> Ripstein, Arthur. //Force and Freedom: Kant’s Legal and Political Philosophy.// Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 2009. Pg 34-35.</span>
<span style="line-height: 26px; margin-left: 0.5in;">**__The right to…__**some other end.</span>


<span style="line-height: 26px;"> Domination denies individuals’ voices as rational agents. Philip Pettit writes,
Republicanism: A Theory of Freedom and Government.” Clarendon. 1997. Pg. 91.
But the primary-good …not command respect.</span>

<span style="line-height: 26px;"> This violates the obligations of practical reason because we fail to treat individuals as rational agents, by making their will irrelevant, and thus the universalization of that principle would deny our own rationality. Domination denies peoples’ relevance in despite of their humanity.</span>

<span style="line-height: 26px;"> It is morally impermissible to violate independence. Ripstein TWO continues:
Kant on Law and Politics.” Arthur Ripstein. //University of Toronto Law School//.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.law.utoronto.ca/documents/Ripstein/Kant_on_law.pdf]]</span>.
This recasting of…of legitimate institutions.</span>


<span style="line-height: 26px;"> **I contend that the possession of nuclear weapons is a tool of domination.**</span>

<span style="line-height: 26px;"> **First,** the possession of nuclear weapons arbitrarily dominates innocents in other nations by holding them as hostages. Steven Lee explains,
Steven Lee [professor of philosophy at Hobart & William Smith Colleges] “Morality, prudence, and nuclear weapons” Cambridge University Press, 1993. Pg. 46.</span>

<span style="line-height: 26px; margin-left: 0.5in;">**__Nuclear deterrence is…as mere means.__**</span>

<span style="line-height: 26px;"> Domination is immoral under any condition. because domination under any condition is impermissible there is no condition upon which we can intend to dominate,</span>

<span style="line-height: 26px;"> **Second,** a nation that puts itself in a position to coerce others imposes dominating power. Pettit TWO continues:</span>

<span style="line-height: 26px;"> Philip Pettit [Princeton University]. “A Republican Law of Peoples.” //European Journal of Political Theory//. 2010. Sage.</span>

<span style="line-height: 26px; margin-left: 0.5in;">But **__A may__**… would not be.</span>

<span style="line-height: 26px;"> Therefore, nuclear weapons put nations in a position to coerce others because of their destructive power, and are thus immoral. This has two additional implications:</span>

<span style="line-height: 26px;"> Possession of nuclear weapons by developing nations forces other nations to alter their foreign policy Globalsecurity.org writes:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 32px;"> Weapons of Mass Destruction: Nuclear Weapons.” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/world/iran/nuke.htm]]</span>. </span>

<span style="line-height: 26px; margin-left: 0.5in;">**__If Iran did… in the region.__**] </span></span></span>
Also, possession of nuclear weapons alters behavior of nearly all states to avoid catastrophe. 

Henry Nash "Nuclear Weapons and International Behavior," 1975. Sijthoff International Publishing.

Underview: Ethical frameworks are evaluated via their maximum expected value.

Andrew Sepielli. "What to Do When You Don't Know What to Do" Rutgers - New Brunswick
You and I...strategy was insensitive

Questions of permissibility are irrelevant because they don't give a reason to take an action.

==Negative== 

Niebuhr NC

Ought not = moral prohibition

Moral prohibitions can't be established for agents that can't conceptualize them

Negative burden: prove states are non-moral agents

First, the lack of direct interaction between states and individuals outside of the states prevents ethical relationships.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Reinhold Niebuhr [philosopher and theologian at Union Theological Seminary] “Moral Man and Immoral Society” 1934 Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York. [[http://books.google.com/books?id=nhVxQVxpNcYC&dq=moral+man+immoral+society&source=gbs_navlinks_s]] Pg. 83-113</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">What is the...ignorance of nations</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Second, the state acts on emotion instead of rational basis, so has no ability for self-criticism.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Reinhold Niebuhr [philosopher and theologian at Union Theological Seminary] “Moral Man and Immoral Society” 1934 Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York. </span><span style="cursor: pointer; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=nhVxQVxpNcYC&dq=moral+man+immoral+society&source=gbs_navlinks_s]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Pg. 83-113</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">There is always...lacent and egotistical</span>


Sovereignty NC

V: Morality 
Resepct for human auonomy means states are sovereign

<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Brad R. Roth [Associate Professor of Political Science and Law, Wayne State University. J.D., Harvard Law School, 1987; LL.M., Columbia Law School, 1992; Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, 1996.] COMMENTARY: THE ENDURING SIGNIFICANCE OF STATE SOVEREIGNTY. Florida Law Review December, 2004. 56 Fla. L. Rev. 1017 </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is good</span> **__be democratic about.__**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">VC Consistnecy wiht soverignty </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">C1. nukes are an expression fo sovernigyt because we choose ot possess.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
Gauthier NC

We need an incentive to obey moral rules, or else they don’t function as a guide for action

Further, contractarianism is the only theory that supplies moral content without circularity. Gauthier, David P. Morals by Agreement . Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.
Morals by agreement… presumption against morality.

Finally, contractarianism is the sole moral system that establishes the rationality of compliance to moral principles as well as providing the rational basis for those principles.
Gauthier, David P. Morals by Agreement . Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print. A contractarian theory… morally neutral, base.

Therefore, the negative burden is to prove that a prohibition on the possession of nuclear weapons is inconsistent with self-interested contractarian restrictions on action.

Without a sovereign, all actions are permissible
Hobbes. The Leviathan. 1660.
THE right of… so to do.

Second, a policy of nuclear deterrence is consistent with a true understanding of our rational self-interest.
David Gauthier “Deterrence, Maximization, and Rationality” Ethics, Vol. 94, No. 3 (Apr., 1984), pp. 474-495Published by: The University of Chicago Press URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2380819
This objector insists… utilities is greatest.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Ripstein NC</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">I value morality.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">There is an innate right to independence.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Arthur Ripstein [Professor of Law and Philosophy at the University of Toronto] “Kant on Law and Justice” University of Toronto. [[http://www.law.utoronto.ca/documents/Ripstein/Kant_on_law.pdf]] pg. 2-3</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">All rational agents have to be able to will a maxim since there's no reason to reject it for one but accept it for another. However, rejecting independence is rationally contradictory.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Stephen Engstron. Universal Law as the Form of Practical Knowledge pg. 18 </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Now on the...the same freedom.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">This obligates states not to be used for others' purposes. </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Arthur Ripstein "Force and Freedom: Kant's Legal and Political Philosophy." Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 2009. pg. 228.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The same right...to rightful honor</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">States are constrained by right conduct because they have no ends to pursue means to.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Arthur Ripstein "Force and Freedom: Kant's Legal and Political Philosophy." Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 2009. pg. 228.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The absence of...rightfully acquire another</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The sufficient negative burden is to prove that a states refusal to sacrifice its possession of nuclear weapons is consistent with rightful honor.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">States can't sacrifice their interests for an objective good.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Arthur Ripstein "Force and Freedom: Kant's Legal and Political Philosophy." Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 2009.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Since there is no Kantian international arbiter of independence, states have no reason to exit the state of nature. Thus, there is an absolute right to self-defense because a) deferring to others' judgments violates rightful honor b) there are no ethical constraints on self-defense for a state because there is no authority to apply it.</span>
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">V:M</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">drug abuse - detrimental state of too much drug use</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">public health - preventative medicine for help of community</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">distinction of aff and neg is punishment</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">if don't deserve punishment, affirm</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">practical reason</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">only practical reason gives agents reason to act or can ask why shouldn't</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">This implies that reason is a fact from which all argumentation is derived.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 9pt;">Lewis, C.S. //Miracles//. 1942. Collins. Print.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 9pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">But the very...getting inside again</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 9pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">all rational agents must will the maxim because no reason for one agent but not another</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Can't deny outer freedom</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 9pt;">Engstrom. Universal Law as the Form of Practical Knowledge. 18.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Now on the...the same freedom</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">VC: respecting independent choice</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention 1. not responsible</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">states of affairs don't convey moral worth b/c they are grounded in the will</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">if no will, can't punish the agent</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">First, drug addiction is a disease that addicts cannot control.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Alan Leshner “ </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 9pt;">Compulsory Treatment for Drug-Dependent Persons: Justifications for a Public HealthApproach to Drug Dependency” The Milbank Quarterly, Vol. 69, No. 4, Confronting Drug Policy: Part 2 (1991), pp.561-593Published by: Blackwell Publishing on behalf of Milbank Memorial FundStable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/3350228</span> </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Second, MRI scans reveal that drug use induces unintended cravings that remove the will to freely take action.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Hugh Garavan, Ph.D. John Pankiewicz, M.D. Alan Bloom, Ph.D. Jung-Ki Cho, M.D. Lori Sperry, M.A. Thomas J. Ross, Ph.D. Betty Jo Salmeron, M.D. Robert Risinger, M.D. Dan Kelley, B.S. Elliot A. Stein, Ph.D. “Cue-Induced Cocaine Craving: Neuroanatomical Specificity for Drug Users and Drug Stimuli” American Journal of Psychiatry 2000; 157:1789–1798.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Based upon self-reports...cue-induced cocaine craving</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Third, abusers don’t will the crime because their actions are impossible to control.</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">MICHAEL CORRADO. [Arch Allen Distinguished Professor of Law, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill]. “Addiction and Causation” 2000 San Diego Law Review.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">One of the...disturbance was caused</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Fourth, drugs create powerful autonomic responses that are uncontrollable by the subject.</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Antoine Bechara [Institute for the Neurological Study of Emotion and Creativity, Department of Psychology, USC] “Decision making, impulse control and loss of willpower to resist drugs: a neurocognitive perspective” November 2005, Nature Neuroscience Vol. 8 No. 11.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 16px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Physiological evidence suggests...framework of addiction.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">No will towards abuse</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 16px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention 2. </span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Punishment is unwarranted, unless in response to unreciprocal limitations on freedom.</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Arthur Ripstein. “Beyond the Harm Principle.” University of Toronto. </span>__<span style="color: blue; cursor: pointer;">[[http://www.law.utoronto.ca/documents/Ripstein/beyond_harm_principle.pdf]]</span>__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The sovereignty principle...if they did</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Only culpable for restriction of others freedoms</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">First, restrictions on the use of our means only apply to domination of others.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ripstein 2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The idea that...all the others</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Second, a restriction of my domination of myself would be inconsistent with theirs and my independence.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ripstein 3</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Each person's entitlement...about that refusal</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Only affect self</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Legalize Drugs Now!: An Analysis of the Benefits of Legalized Drugs Author(s): Meaghan Cussen and Walter Block Source: American Journal of Economics and Sociology, Vol. 59, No. 3 (Jul., 2000), pp. 525-536 Published by: American Journal of Economics and Sociology, Inc.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">The laws of...presently illegal drugs</span>

Can't identify means so violation of independence to punish

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;">I affirm and value MORALITY</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> Mark Mercer<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Arial;">]</span></span> argues</span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 13px;">[1]</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 13px;">In Defence of Weak Psychological Egoism.: Mark Mercer. Erkenntnis (1975-), Vol. 55, No. 2 (2001), pp. 217-23</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> To begin: **__To…unfathomable and inexplicable.__**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> Additionally, any motive that I can have to act must be my own motive and not someone else’s.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> We condition motivation via self-motivation.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> A moral claim about how agents should act must both be able to explain the content of rules as well as the motivation to follow them.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> David Gauthier<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Arial;">]</span></span> explains:</span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 13px;">[1]</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 13px;">Gauthier, David P.</span> //<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 13px;">Morals by Agreement</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 13px;">. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> Morals by agreement …presumption against morality.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> Rationality is determined by the individual agent, so objective concerns of harm external to perceptions do not generate obligations.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> So the standard is **consistency with the moral claims of rational contractarianism**.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> Gauthier TWO<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Arial;">]</span></span> continues:</span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 13px;">[1]</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 13px;">Gauthier, David P.</span> //<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 13px;">Morals by Agreement</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 13px;">. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> **__A contractarian theory…morally neutral, base.__**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> Paul Voice<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Arial;">]</span></span> explains:</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> <span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Arial;">[1]</span></span> Paul Voice. Morality and Agreement A defense of moral Contractarianism. 2002. Peter Lang Publishing</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> Contractarianism connects rationality**__…we all inhabit.__**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> Voice<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Arial;">]</span></span> 2 argues:</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> <span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Arial;">[1]</span></span> Paul Voice. Morality and Agreement A defense of moral Contractarianism. 2002. Peter Lang Publishing</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> Contractarianism explains how…**__things go wrong.__**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> I contend that rational agents would never affirm a moral system that allows the criminal justice system to punish them for victimless crimes, but would affirm a system of public health.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> Cussen and Block<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Arial;">]</span></span> explain,</span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 13px;">[1]</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;">Legalize Drugs Now!: An Analysis of the Benefits of Legalized Drugs Author(s): Meaghan Cussen and Walter Block Source: American Journal of Economics and Sociology, Vol. 59, No. 3 (Jul., 2000), pp. 525-536 Published by: American Journal of Economics and Sociology, Inc.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> The laws of…a legal inconsistency.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> Voice[[#_ftn7|[7]]<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Arial;">]</span></span> 3 explains.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> **__According to Gauthier…expense of others.__**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> Additionally, if your actions only harm yourself, then I get no benefit by creating a prohibition to my action because your corresponding prohibition fails to benefit me in any way.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> Mill[[#_ftn8|[8]]<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Arial;">]</span></span> writes:</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> <span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Arial;">[1]</span></span> //On Liberty,// People’s Edition, London, 1859</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> But **__neither one…field of action.__**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;"> However, rational agents would still hold open the possibility for public health. Public health is concerned not primarily with restricting options but with opening them up.</span>
==Negative== 

Law NC
V:M

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Moral claims are altered and defined by the promises we make. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">H.L.A. Hart “Are There Any Natural Rights?” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 64, No. 2 (April 1955), pp. 175-191. Published by Duke University Press.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">The most obvious...else can complain</span>

VC: <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 18px;">consistency with the principles of special rights</span>

Agents promise to follow the law

Hart 2
Special rights are...those of disobedience

agents must follow the law

Kant NC
V:M
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">practical reason</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">only practical reason gives agents reason to act or can ask why shouldn't</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This implies that reason is a fact from which all argumentation is derived.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 9pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Lewis, C.S. //Miracles//. 1942. Collins. Print.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 9pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">But the very...getting inside again</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 9pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">all rational agents must will the maxim because no reason for one agent but not another</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12px; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Can't treat people as a means to an end</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Immanuel Kant. The Groundwork of the Meta Physics of Morals. 1785.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">For all rational...every rational nature</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">VC: treating people as ends in themselves</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First, public health aggregates individuals and criminal justice doesn't</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">“Kant on Law and Politics.” Arthur Ripstein. //University of Toronto Law School//. [[http://www.law.utoronto.ca/documents/Ripstein/Kant_on_law.pdf]].</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Public right also...to treat others</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">respect for will means treat in CJ system</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Second, public health uses people as a means to an end</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">C.S. Lewis “The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment. 6 Res Judicatae 224 (1953). //God and the Dock: Essays on Theology and Ethics//. P. 287.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">According to the...in God's image</span>


=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 

Prince Caspian AC

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">Rousseau, Jean Jacques. “The Social Contract or Principles of Political Right”. 1762. Translated by G.D.H Cole. [[http://www.ruthdunn.org/Rousseau's%20The%20Social%20Contract.pdf]]</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Charles de Montesquieu “ The Spirit of Laws” Book XI. Of the Laws Which Establish Political Liberty, with Regard to the Constitution 1748</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">Philip Pettit “Republicanism: A Theory of Freedom and Government.” Clarendon. 1997. Pg. 91.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Fritsch [Assistant Professor, University of North Texas]. Hemmens [Assistant professor, Boise State University] “SPECIAL ISSUE: JUVENILE JUSTICE AND THE CRIMINAL LAW: ARTICLE: An Assess-ment of Legislative Approaches to the Problem of Serious Juvenile Crime: A Case Study of Texas 1973-1995” Spring, 1996. The University of Texas School of Law American Journal of Criminal Law. LexisNexis. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">C. S. Lewis The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment. 6 Res Judicatae 224 (1953). //God and the Dock: Essays on Theology and Ethics//. P. 287.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 10.5pt; line-height: 115%;">49 U. Miami L. Rev. 473 (1994-1995).Waiving Goodbye to Juvenile Defendants, Getting Smart vs. Getting Tough; Noon, Cynthia R.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Barry C. Feld. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966] “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy Source: The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology” (1973-), Vol. 88, No. 1 (Autumn, 1997), pp. 68-136. Northwestern University <http://www.jstor.org/stable/1144075></span>


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Sanborn, Joseph. The Right to a Public Jury Trial: A Need for Today’s Juvenile Court. Law Journal Library Judicture Vol. 76 No. 5. 1992-1993. Pg. 235-236. Professor of Criminal Justice at the University of Central Florida</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Katherine Federle "WILL THE JUVENILE COURT SYSTEM SURVIVE?: Is There a Jurisprudential Future for the Juvenile Court?." 1999 The American Academy of Political and Social Science. Lexis Nexis.</span>


==Negative== 

The Weight of Glory NC

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">John Locke “The Two Treatises on Government” 1689. http://books.google.com/books?id=BHZKAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=two+treatises+of+government&source=bl&ots=pgbVV5cDtp&sig=fXDm7TTPGyrnXMzZ5KTp-9svQ14&hl=en&ei=IT8MTbvSG52xnAe8zIjYDg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&sqi=2&ved=0CC4Q6AEwAQ.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Katherine Evans. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 15px; line-height: 17px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">“<span style="color: #333333;">COMMENT: Trying Juveniles as Adults: Is the Short Term Gain of Retribution Outweighed by the Long Term Effects on Society” </span></span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Mississippi Law Journal Spring, 1992</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 18px;">Enrico Pagnanelli </span>“NOTE: CHILDREN AS ADULTS: THE TRANSFER OF JUVENILES TO ADULT COURTS AND THE POTENTIAL IMPACT OF ROPER V. SIMMONS” 2007 American Criminal Law Review American Criminal Law Review Winter, 2007</span>

The Four Loves NC

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">David Velleman “Self To Self.” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">2006. Cambridge University Press.</span>
Connie de la Vega and Michelle Leighton [Connie de la Vega is Professor of Law and Director of the Frank C. Newman International Human Rights Clinic, University of San Francisco School of Law. Michelle Leighton is Director of Human Rights Programs, Center for Law and Global Justice, University of San Francisco School of Law]“Sentencing Our Children to Die in Prison: Global Law and Practice” University of San Francisco Law Review, Vol. 42. Spring 2008.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Roger Levesque [Assistant Professor of Criminal Justice, Indiana University. J.D., Columbia University School of Law, 1993; Ph.D., University of Chicago, 1990] “Future Visions Of Juvenile Justice: Lessons From International And Comparative Law” 29 Creighton L. Rev. 1563, June 1996.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">The Four Loves NC 2.0</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">H.L.A. Hart “Are There Any Natural Rights?” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 64, No. 2 (April 1955), pp. 175-191. Published by Duke University Press.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'DejaVu Sans';">Connie de la Vega and Michelle Leighton [Connie de la Vega is Professor of Law and Director of the Frank C. Newman International Human Rights Clinic, University of San Francisco School of Law. Michelle Leighton is Director of Human Rights Programs, Center for Law and Global Justice, University of San Francisco School of Law]“Sentencing Our Children to Die in Prison: Global Law and Practice” University of San Francisco Law Review, Vol. 42. Spring 2008.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Roger Levesque [Assistant Professor of Criminal Justice, Indiana University. J.D., Columbia University School of Law, 1993; Ph.D., University of Chicago, 1990] “Future Visions Of Juvenile Justice: Lessons From International And Comparative Law” 29 Creighton L. Rev. 1563, June 1996.</span>

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]