[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Plan: The United States Federal Government should withdraw all of the United States Federal Government’s military and police presence from Iraq. 

Contention 1 is Colonialism 

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1.The project in Iraq is a new version of the “White Man’s Burden”. </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hassan 08</span></span><span style="font-family: KeplerStd-Regular;"> (Salah Hassan, “Never-Ending Occupations” </span>CR: The New Centennial Review, Volume 8, Number 1, Spring 2008)
The long-term proposition that a U.S. victory … by which men achieve manhood and nations fulfill their historical role. 

2.The idea that US troops are necessary for Iraqi Stability is a racist description of the non-western world that ensures genocide and unending war. 
Pinar <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Batur</span></span>, PhD @ UT-Austin – Prof. of Scociology @ Vassar, ‘<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">7</span></span> [“The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide,” in Handbook of the The Soiology of Racial and Ethnic Relations, eds. Vera and Feagin, p. 446-7]
At the turn of the 20th century, the “Terrible Turk” … The 21st century opened up with genocide, in Darfur.


3. The US policy of occupation has ongoing material effects. Over 1.3 million Iraqi civilians have died. The troops only serve to reinforce the colonial order by destroying the opposition. 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Petras 09</span></span> (“The US War against Iraq: The Destruction of a Civilization” James Petras, a former Professor of Sociology at Binghamton University, New York, owns a 50-year membership in the class struggle, is an adviser to the landless and jobless in Brazil and Argentina, and is co-author of Globalization Unmasked (Zed Books). Petras’ most recent book is Zionism, Militarism and the Decline of US Power (Clarity Press, 2008 August 21st, 2009 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dissidentvoice.org/2009/08/the-us-war-against-iraq/]]</span>)
The sustained bloody purge of Iraq under US occupation … anyone with the least capacity to re-construct the republic was marked.

4. The occupation of Iraq is an attempt at enforcing democracy by the sword. Only the affirmative can break the cycle of colonial violence.
Anthony <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke</span></span>, Prof. of Politcs & IR @ Univ. of New South Wales, ‘<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">5</span></span> [Social Identities 11.4, “Freedom’s Freedom: American Enlightenment and Permanent War,” p. 322-3]
<span style="color: black; font-family: AdvMO;">Hann</span>ah Arendt recognized this instrumental, … so that they can ‘appear, or rather reappear, in their full diversity’ (Arendt, 2002, pp. 19_<span style="color: white;">/</span>34).

5. We have to reject this colonialism- if we allow it continue it will result in the death and destruction of the planet. 
Nermeen <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shaikh</span></span>, @ Asia Source ‘<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">7</span></span>, [Development 50, “Interrogating Charity and the Benevolence of Empire,” palgrave-journals]
It would probably be incorrect to assume that the principal impulse … or the consolidation of Jewish and Arab identities in Palestine and the Mediterranean generally (Anidjar, 2003, 2007).


6. Solving for colonization in Iraq is the starting point for challenging a new era of US intervention. Only the affirmative’s rejection of the logic of pre-emption combats imperialism globally.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Everest</span></span> 200<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">4</span></span>. Larry Everest, reporter for 20 years with “The Revolutionary Worker, 2004 “Oil, Power, and Empire: Iraq and the US Global Agenda” Common Courage Press

The NSS mentioned Iraq only once in passing. … So for those running the U.S. ship of state, all roads led through Baghdad.101


7. The plan begins a shift in US policies of colonialism into more peaceful and equitable societies. It is time to begin questioning whether or not our reasons and justifications our correct. 
Diana <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brydon</span></span>, University of Western Ontario, ‘<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">6</span></span> [Postcolonial Test 2.1, “Is There a Politics of Postcoloniality?” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.sfu.ca/pocol/index.php/pct/article/viewArticle/508/175]]</span>]
Although the ultimate orientation of a postcolonial politics … while working to create the conditions under which genuine dialogue might begin.

Contention 2 is Shadow Politics 

1. The war in Iraq is a violent expression of shadow politics- we projected all of the evils within ourselves onto them to fight our shadow.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goldhammer 05, </span></span>(John Goldhammer, Ph.D., psychologist and published author, “Dr. Bush and Mr. Hyde: 
The Fundamentalist Shadow of George W. Bush”, September 19 2005, [[http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL0509/S00292.htm#a]] )

Psychological projection of a group shadow … and will thank God for the better sleep he enjoys after this process of grotesque self-deception.”[21]
2. Shadow Politics guarantees infinite war- the need for an enemy causes us to chase our shadow 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goldhammer 05, </span></span>(John Goldhammer, Ph.D., psychologist and published author, “Dr. Bush and Mr. Hyde: 
The Fundamentalist Shadow of George W. Bush”, September 19 2005, [[http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL0509/S00292.htm#a]] )

Ignorance of the group shadow … put Koranic law in power from one end of the earth to the other.”[5]

3. Externalization of our evils allows us to commit violence without restraint 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pilisuk and Rountree 08</span></span>, Dr. Marc Pilisuk, Professer at the Saybrook Graduate School and Research Center and published author, Jennifer Achord Rountree, Doctoral student, “WHO BENEFITS FROM GLOBAL VIOLENCE AND WAR”, 2008, pg 31-32
Central to each person’s store of images … permit this vio- lence to occur without moral restraint.9 

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">4. Without recognizing we engage in shadow politics- we will continue to be consumed reinforcing its control over our actions </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goldhammer 05, </span></span>(John Goldhammer, Ph.D., psychologist and published author, “Dr. Bush and Mr. Hyde: 
The Fundamentalist Shadow of George W. Bush”, September 19 2005, [[http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL0509/S00292.htm#a]] )

“How do you find a lion that has swallowed you …And it began long ago in both the Moslem and Christian worlds.

5. The affirmative calls attention to the shadow and forces us to critically evaluate ourselves destroying the shadow’s hold over us

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goldhammer 05, </span></span>(John Goldhammer, Ph.D., psychologist and published author, “Dr. Bush and Mr. Hyde: 
The Fundamentalist Shadow of George W. Bush”, September 19 2005, [[http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL0509/S00292.htm#a]] )

Shadow work begins with brutally honest self-examination … Look with suspicion on the rhetoric of your nation.”


Contention 3 is Solvency

The aff questions the politics of the status quo breaking down the problem solution dichotomies of the status quo solving the case. 
Diana <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brydon</span></span>, University of Western Ontario, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘6</span></span> [Postcolonial Test 2.1, “Is There a Politics of Postcoloniality?” [[http://journals.sfu.ca/pocol/index.php/pct/article/viewArticle/508/175]]]
At its most fundamental level, postcolonial thinking … "a sustained vision of how to resist colonization" (57).


=Negative= 
See Blake MM for most negative positions
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]