[[toc]]
Email: [[mailto:andrewjones232@gmail.com|andrewjones232@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 

==New Turkey Relations 1AC TOC== 

1AC- Plan
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its forces from the Incirlik Air Base


1AC- Inherency
US presence in Turkey only to increase- response to PKK terrorism
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Daloglu 9</span></span> [Tulin, Chief Washington Correspondant at Haberturk – Turkish news channel, Turkey Analyst Vol. 2 No. 11, 6/5/9, http://www.silkroadstudies.org/new/inside/turkey/2009/090605B.html] KLS
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">The relationship between the United States AND </span></span>relationship since the invasion of Iraq.



Relations will rise in the status quo because of Obama—change in policy is key to reverse that
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Guardian 09</span></span> (A golden era for US-Turkey relations?, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cifamerica/2009/apr/03/obama-administration-usa]], Hemanth)

<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">After back-to-back AND </span></span>and the rest of the Muslim world

US-Turkey cooperation over Incirlik is subsuming crises that would otherwise collapse relations
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Giachetti 08</span></span> (David, Air Force, “UNITED STATES MILITARY RELATIONS WITH TURKEY”, [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_9692bb4e-a132-48c0-b7b3-03ea195ec95c/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]], Hemanth)
As the Turkish government looks ahead AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">support of ongoing UN peacekeeping missions.</span></span>

Our internal link is reverse causal and empirically true—withdrawal decreases relations
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Prager 03</span></span> (RACHEL PRAGER, GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY, writer on Turkey, “Turkish-American Relations: Historical Context and Current Issues”, [[http://www.tusiad.us/content/uploaded/Prageltusiadsubmission.pdf]], Hemanth)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Following the end of major combat AND Turkey strategically in the future."2</span></span>

Scenario one is adventurism
Turkey is using Incirlik as a bargaining chip to leverage concessions from the US
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Urbina 01</span></span> (Ian, Ian Urbina, an editor at Middle East Report, is based at the Middle East Research and Information Project (MERIP) in Washington, DC, “US Bows to Turkey”, [[http://www.thenation.com/article/us-bows-turkey]], Hemanth)
Alongside the White House and the AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">answered was: at what cost?</span></span>

U.S. presence in Turkey is critical to Turkish attacks of Kurds because the U.S. gives them intel about the location of Kurds through U.S. aircraft and drones.
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tyson et al 7</span></span> (Ann Tyson and Robin Wright, Pentagon correspondant, “U.S Helps Turkey Hit Rebel Kurds in Iraq” Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wpdyn/content/article/2007/12/17/AR2007121702150.html) MKB
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">The United States is providing Turkey AND </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">United States,</span></span> the official said. 

Turkish genocide of the Kurds is systemic and ongoing
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Fatah 6 </span></span>(Rebwar, journalist, “The Accepted Genocide of Kurds in Turkey” Kurdish Media, http://kurdmedia.com/article.aspx?id=13491) MKB
Since the Armenian genocide, Turkey AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">against the Kurds in Turkey today</span></span>." 

Genocide is bad and justifies extinction
<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">Diamond</span></span>, THE THIRD CHIMPANZEE, <span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">1992</span></span>, p. 277
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">While our first association to the AND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">reverse **all its progress virtually overnight.**</span></span></span>
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;"> </span></span>
Turkish military adventurism against the kurds would rapidly destabilize the region causing a war with iran and increased terrorism
<span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">USA Today ’07</span></span> (Ralph Peters, “Turkey’s identity crisis: Domestic conflicts are steering the country toward a battle with Iraq's Kurds. The fallout could hurt not only Ankara and the United States, but the entire region”, October 23, Lexis)
<span style="font-family: "Times-Roman","serif";"> On the other hand, </span><span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">AND </span></span><span style="font-family: "Times-Roman","serif"; font-size: 8pt;">thoughtlessly hasten its deterioration and decline.</span>

Terrorism Causes Extinction
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sid-Ahmed</span></span>,<span style="color: black;"> political analyst </span><span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">04</span></span> (Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, “Extinction!” August 26-September 1, Issue no. 705, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">What would be the consequences of AND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">, we will all be losers</span></span></span>.

Middle east war goes nuclear

John <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Steinbach</span></span>, DC Iraq Coalition, ISRAELI WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION: A THREAT TO PEACE, March <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2002</span></span>, http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html
Meanwhile, <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">the existence of an AND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">conflict could trigger a world conflagration</span>."</span></span>

Because of relations, conflict between turkey and iran would draw in the U.S.
Michael M. <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gunter</span></span> 19<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">98</span></span> PHD in IR, authority on Kurds in Turkey and Iraq and has written seven books on the Kurdish struggle. He is frequently consulted by media members for analysis and comment on breaking news in the Middle East. (“Turkey and Iran Face off in Kurdistan” Middle East Quarterly March 1998, pp. 33-40 http://www.meforum.org/384/turkey-and-iran-face-off-in-kurdistan Ajones)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">Given the close American ties to AND </span></span>Kurds' demand for democracy and federalism.

War With Iran Will Quickly Escalate and strikes would fail
David <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Isenberg</span></span>, senior analyst, British American Security Information Council, “WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT IRAN, April 25, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2006</span></span>, p. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.globalpolicy.org/empire/intervention/iran/general/2006/0425aboutiran.htm]]</span>
The hawks in both the Republican AND -conservatives, should understand this.

US-Turkey relations will drive the US to make concession to Turkey over the division of the Agean Sea at the cost of Greek security and stability, this risk flashpoints for war at major global hotspots, such as, Taiwan, North Korea, Israel, India/Pakistan and the Persian Gulf because the division to territorial dispute will be modeled
<span class="tinyChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">John </span></span><span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">Sitilides</span></span> <span class="tinyChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Government Relations Specialist at Western Policy Center) May 19 </span></span><span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">1997</span></span> <span class="tinyChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">"Dividing the Aegean Sea : A Plan in Progress?", <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.hri.org/forum/intpol/sitil.html]]</span></span></span>
<span class="tinyChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">
Greece's position that issues of AND </span></span><span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">Aegean Sea may one day triumph</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">.</span></span>

U.S.-China war over taiwan goes nuclear
James <span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">Hsiung</span></span>, professor of politics and international law at NYU, 21ST CENTURY WORLD ORDER AND THE ASIA PACIFIC, <span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">2001</span></span>, p. 359-60
But decision-makers cannot afford AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">Taiwan or in the conflict’s wake</span></span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">.</span>__


Korean conflict – extinction 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Africa News ’99</span> </span>**(10-25, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Lusaka - If there is </span><span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">one AND </span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">towards normalising relations with North Korea.</span>


Korean advances kill millions in an all out nuclear war
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hirsh 3</span></span> [Michael, Editor @ Newsweek, January 13. Newsweek]
Let's face it: the very AND a spent force in the Muslim world 


Israeli/Palestinian Conflict will cause a third world war with nuclear exchange
<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">The Scotsman</span></span>, 1/28/<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">2002</span></span>
IF THERE is to be <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">AND richest economic prize in the world"..</span></span></span>
Scenario two is european relations


US-Turkish Relations crush US-EU relations
<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">Larrabee and Lesser, 03</span></span> (F. Stephen, senior staff member at RAND; Ian O.; Vice President, Director of Studies, at the Pacific Council on International Policy in Los Angeles Turkish Foreign Policy in the Age of Uncertainty www.rand.org)
The events of September 11 are AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">up to Helsinki</span></span>. P. 69


EU Relations solve everything
<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">Asmus 2003</span></span> (Ronald D.; Senior Fellow – Council on Foreign Relations) “Rebuilding the Atlantic Alliance” Foreign Affairs Sept/Oct l/n
Meeting in Washington in the spring AND will be much the better for it

US-EU cooperation is key to successful climate change policies – now is the key time
<span class="verdana">Julianne </span><span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Smith</span></span><span class="verdana">, director of the CSIS Europe Program, </span><span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2008</span></span><span class="verdana">, “</span><span class="ssl0">The </span><span class="hit">Transatlantic Climate Change Challenge”</span> <span class="verdana">The Washington Quarterly, </span><span class="hit">Winter 2007-2008, l/n</span>
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">Both sides of the Atlantic appear AND </span></span>the first 100 days in office. 


Cooperation between Europe and the U.S. is key to solve warming, which is comparatively the greatest impact. Independently, climate cooperation will spill over to solve all over issues.
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hague 10</span></span> (William Hague, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Member of Parliament for Richmond, United Kingdom, “The Diplomacy of Climate Change,” 9/27/10)
But I particularly wanted to make AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">will determine our destiny for us.</span></span>


Warming causes extinction
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sify 2010</span></span> – Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html, WEA)
The findings of the comprehensive reportAND . These findings were published in Science


Environment turns global stability—but cooperation ensures new weapons states and rising powers are stable—the impact is nuke war
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dyer, 04</span></span> – worked as a freelance journalist, columnist, broadcaster and lecturer on international affairs for more than 20 years, but he was originally trained as an historian. Born in Newfoundland, he received degrees from Canadian, American and British universities, finishing with a Ph.D. in Military and Middle Eastern History from the University of London. [Gwynne, "The end of war," Toronto Star, 12/30, l/n]
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">War is deeply embedded in our AND context of the existing state system.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 16pt;">
</span>
1AC Contention—No Offense
Incirlik is outdated and can easily be withdrawn
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bolme 07</span></span> (Selin, Research Analyst at SETA Foundation for Political, Economic, and Social Research, Lecturer at Ankara University, July 2007. Insight Turkey, [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_7057/is_3_9/ai_n28498510/?tag=content;coll]], Hemanth)
Yet, <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">it is possible to AND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">vital for the U.S.</span></span></span>


The US is already looking for alternatives—solves your turns
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">CNN 07</span></span> (“U.S. military looking at alternatives in case Turkey cuts access”, [[http://edition.cnn.com/2007/US/10/12/us.turkey/index.html]], Hemanth)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">U.S. military planners AND Jordan or Kuwait,</span></span> officials say. 


And only a risk of our impacts—turkey will keep demanding concessions before relations can be effective 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">Turkish Weekly 7/1</span></span> [2010, [JTW Analysis] Turkey’s Everlasting Fight Against PKK and The U.S. Variable European Union With Turkey, http://www.turkishweekly.net/news/103921/-jtw-analysis-turkey%E2%80%99s-everlasting-fight-against-pkk-and-the-u-s-variable.html]
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">Relation</span>**<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">s between Turkey and the UAND </span></span>S.’ unwillingness to cooperate


The impact’s empirically denied- there have been huge drops in relations in the past over Iraq and the PKK
<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">Turkish Weekly 7/1</span></span> [2010, [JTW Analysis] Turkey’s Everlasting Fight Against PKK and The U.S. Variable European Union With Turkey, http://www.turkishweekly.net/news/103921/-jtw-analysis-turkey%E2%80%99s-everlasting-fight-against-pkk-and-the-u-s-variable.html]
It is then possible to argue AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">north, further astonished Turkish government.</span></span>


We’re withdrawing TNWs now, and they’re irrelevant to relations and empirically disprove allied proliferation 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Snyder et al 3/30</span></span>/11 (Wilbert van der Zeijden is the researcher for IKV Pax Christi’s Nuclear Disarmament program. Susi Snyder is the program leader for IKV Pax Christi’s Nuclear Disarmament program. Both are contributors to Foreign Policy In Focus, “Nukes in Europe: Coming Home Soon”, Foreign Policy In Focus, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/nukes_in_europe_coming_home_soon]], Hemanth)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">The last U.S. AND </span></span>Daalder favors phasing out the TNW. 


No Turkish prolif—tech barriers
Peter R. <span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">Lavoy</span></span>, CCC Director, Senior Lecturer Department National Security Affairs , “NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION OVER THE NEXT DECADE,” The Nonproliferation Review, 01 November <span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">2006</span></span> http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10736700601071363 
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Technical Feasibility. Einhorn also writes AND </span></span>technical gaps in the nonproliferation regime.


No offense—turkey supports disarmament now and they will never prolif 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Barkey 09</span></span> (Henri, Ph.D., Political Science, University of Pennsylvania; M.S., Political Science, University College, September 22, 2009, “TURKEY'S PERSPECTIVES ON NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND DISARMAMENT”Unblocking the road to zero)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">One of Turkey’’s foremost researchers on AND </span></span>will last remains to be seen.


<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>
== == 
==Newest 1AC== 

__1__AC Plan 2.0
Plan Text: The United States federal judiciary should rule that the United States federal government must close the detention centers located in Afghanistan on the grounds that torture and detention in these facilities violate international law.


1AC- Inherency
Obama administration has NO plans to close the base in Bagram – Solidifying its violation of human rights, international and constitutional law.
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.asil.org/insights090618.cfm#author|Raustiala]]</span> 2009</span></span> (Kal, IL member, is Professor of Law at UCLA Law School and Director of the Ronald W. Burkle Center for International Relations at UCLA. He is a member of the editorial boards of the //American Journal of International Law// and //International Organization//., “**Is Bagram the New Guantánamo? Habeas Corpus and** //**Maqaleh v. Gates,” American Society of International Law http://www.asil.org/insights090618.cfm)**//
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">The U<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% windowtext;">nited </span>S<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% windowtext;">tates</span> has announced no AND </span></span>an unconstitutional suspension of //habeas corpus//.

But draw down in Afghanistan is inevitable- and triggers the link to your disads
Edward Irving <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Koch</span></span> has served in Congress and as the Mayor of New York City. This army veteran is currently a partner in a law firm and hosts his own radio program. Koch is also a regular guest on television programs and his articles can be read in top publications. “Withdraw From Afghanistan” – Newsmax – June 29th, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2010</span></span> – http://www.newsmax.com/Koch/Afghanistan-withdraw-UStroops-Obama/2010/06/29/id/363364
President Barack <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">Obama</span></span> did the right AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">obvious one: Bring them home</span></span>. 


**Westboro ruling thumps their courts DAs**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">National Journal 3/4</span>** (Ben Terris, 3/4/11, " Manchin and Begich Criticize Military Funeral Protesters ", http://www.nationaljournal.com/congress/manchin-and-begich-criticize-military-funeral-protesters-20110304)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Members of </span>the Westboro Baptist Church<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND </span>Somebody is going to get hurt<span style="font-size: 7pt;">."</span>

health care will be overruled now and trigger the link
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">NYT 2/15</span></span> (Katrina Vanden Heuvel, editor and publisher of The Nation. She writes a weekly online column for The Post, “Are conservatives endangering the high court?”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/02/15/AR2011021502560.html]], shingaling)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Less than a month after President AND </span></span>they have an obligation to protect? 


__1AC- Advantage- International Law__
__Contention__ : International Law
Treatment of prisoners at Bagram airbase violates international law
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Zalman 2007</span></span>(Marvin, Professor of Criminal Justice @ Wayne State, <span style="color: #333333;">Criminal Procedure: Constitution and Society,</span> [[http://terrorism.about.com/od/issuestrends/a/TortureTerror2_3.htm]], Waldman)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">In international law</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> both <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">torture and AND under domestic and international law.” 7</span></span></span>

And, the detention center allows America to flaunt its lack of commitment to I-Law—Bagram’s location in an active theatre of war is what allows suspension of habeus corpus 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Eviatar 2010</span></span> (Daphne, <span class="apple-style-span">Senior Associate in Human Rights First's Law and Security Program, “Court Ruling Highlights need for Due Process at Bagram”, </span>[[http://blog.humanrightsfirst.org/2010/05/d.html]], Waldman)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">The D.C. Circuit AND for purposes of their indefinite detention</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">.</span></span>

US holdout undermines International Human Rights Law globally
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ramji 1</span></span> Jaya, Visiting Fellow, Refugee Law Clinic, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa, LEGISLATING AWAY INTERNATIONAL LAW: THE REFUGEE PROVISIONS OF THE ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION REFORM AND IMMIGRANT RESPONSIBILITY ACT, 37 Stan. J Int'l L. 117
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">As a result of these distinctionsAND obligations in the human rights realm.</span></span>

International Law is inevitable but US engagement is critical to its effectiveness
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Institute for Energy and Environmental Research,</span></span> (and the Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2002</span></span> (Rule of Power or Rule of Law? An Assessment of U.S. Policies and Actions Regarding Security-Related Treaties, May, <span style="color: #3366bb;">[[http://www.ieer.org/reports/treaties/execsumm.pdf]]</span>)
The evolution of international law since AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">example and opted out of compliance</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">.</span></span>
We’ll isolate several impacts --
First, International law is key to planetary survival 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">Charney 03</span></span> <span class="CiteCharChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">[</span></span>10/03 Jonathan I. Charney, Of the Board of Editors. Support for this paper was provided by the Vanderbilt University School of Law. Research assistance was provided by Jennifer McGinty, J.D. Vanderbilt University, 1993. “Universal International Law”, Lexis]
To resolve such problems, it AND law should reflect their collective interests.

Specifically, Incorporation by the Court is key to Solve Environmental Destruction
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">Johnathan </span></span><span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Charney</span></span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">, Board of Editors @ American Journal of Intl Law, Oct </span></span><span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">1993</span></span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">., 87 A.J.I.L. 529</span></span>
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The international community</span></span> of the <span class="hit">late AND </span>of a small number of states.

The Impact is Extinction
Donald A. <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Brown</span></span>, Program Manager for United Nations Organizations with the United States Environmental Protection Agency, Summer <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">1996</span></span> [5 Dick. J. Env. L. Pol. 175]
Globalization of markets and communications is AND increase in the number of international.

And international law solves your disads- makes global cooperation on every issue possible
Harold Hongju <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Koh</span></span>, Gerard C. and Bernice Latrobe Smith Professor of International Law, Yale Law School; Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, 1998-2001, May, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2003</span></span>, “FOREWORD: On American Exceptionalism,” 55 Stan. L. Rev. 1479, Lexis Nexis 
<span class="verdana">Similarly, the oxymoronic concept of AND renewed nuclear militarization of </span><span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">North Korea</span></span><span class="verdana">.</span>

Increased global cooperation solves all nuclear wars 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Seita ‘97</span></span> (B.S., California Institute of Technology; M.B.A., Stanford; J.D., Stanford. Professor of Law, Albany Law School of Union University, “Globalization and the Convergence of Values,” Cornell International Law Journal, pg nexis//ghs-ef) 
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">The perspective that the human race AND completely the risk of nuclear war.</span></span>

Explicitly ruling to close the Detention Center signals boarder incorporation of international law – it spills over.
Jeffrey C. <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Goldman</span></span>, JD @ Duke, Executive Editor, Duke Law Journal. “Of Treaties And Torture: How The Supreme Court Can Restrain The Executive,” Duke Law Journal December, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2005</span></span> 55 Duke L.J. 609 Waldman
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Bush</span> administration's original </span></span>(and AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">afoul of the political question doctrine.</span></span>

<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">And action on the plan spills over-- key to international modeling and broader incorporation of US goals at home and abroad.</span></span>
Kenneth <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Roth</span></span> Executive Director, Human Rights Watch 2K. 2000 The University of Chicago Chicago Journal of International Law Fall, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2000</span></span> 1 Chi. J. Int'l L. 347 Waldman
This "know-nothingism" AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">people, not for US citizens</span></span>.


1AC- Advantage – Judicial Independence
Contention is the Judiciary:

<span class="apple-style-span">Recent Court rulings on Bagram have set a precedent of total deference to Congress, the Executive and the Military.</span>
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the New york times 2010 (“</span></span>Backward at Bagram”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/01/opinion/01tue1.html]] Waldman)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">One of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the most vital job</span>s <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">AND </span>be held indefinitely in harsh conditions.</span></span>

And, Global Democratic Transitions are Underway --- Strong Signal from the Supreme Court Upholding Judicial Review against Executive Detention Centers is key to Stable Transitions 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">The International League for Human Rights 2004 </span></span>[Amici Brief Al Odah v. US 2003 U.S. Brief 334. [[http://jenner.com/| http://www.jenner.com/files/tbl_s69NewsDocumentOrder/FileUpload500/82/AmiciCuriae_Center_for_Justice_Int_League_Human_Rights_Adv_For_Indep_Judiciary2.PDF/]]] 
Many of the newly independent governments AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">in detaining persons</span></span> in Guantánamo Bay.

Illiberal majoritarian transitions cause genocide and war 
Fareed <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Zakaria</span></span>, PhD Poli Sci @ Harvard, Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">1997</span></span> ([[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/other/democracy.html]]) 
Lang's embarrassment highlights two common, AND ha<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">s</span> little to do with democracy. 

These conflicts go nuclear 
Bruce W. <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Jentleson</span></span>, (director, Terry Sanford Inst of Public Policy, prof public policy and poli sci, Duke), June <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">1996</span></span>, University of California, Davis, Policy Paper # 27, www-igcc.ucsd.edu. 
There are three bases for this AND sovereignty-abridging intermediations and interventions.

Democracy acts as a backstop against all of their impacts – no democratically elected leader will allow policy disasters 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">McGinnis and Somin 7</span></span> John and Ilya, Professor of Law @ NU and Georgetown Respectively, Should International Law Be Part of Our Law?, Stanford Law Review, Questia 
Finally, <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">democratic accountability</span> <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">also <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">plays AND serve the interests of their people.</span> </span></span>
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">.</span></span>



1AC- Advantage- Terrorism
Contention : Terrorism

We’re losing the war now because of our detention policy
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Eviatar 2/14</span></span> (Daphne, Senior Associate, Law and Security, Human Rights First, “Justice Remains Elusive for Many at U.S.-run Prison in Afghanistan”, [[http://www.humanrightsfirst.org/2011/02/14/justice-remains-elusive-for-many-at-u-s-run-prison-in-afghanistan/]], shingaling)
Officials in both the Defense and AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">home would be a good start</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">.</span></span>
And- we’ll isolate a few internal link scenarios-

First, detainees at Bagram pose no threat to the United States but only serve to increase Anti-Americanism 
The Atlantic 3/ 25 
(White House and Military Clash over Bagram MAR 25 2010, 2:29 PM ET <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2010/03/white-house-and-military-clash-over-bagram/38034/]]</span>
U.S. military and AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">to building trust between Afghans and Americans</span></span>

Second, Bagram closure is critical to ending the Threat of Terror Attacks on the United States, and resurgence of the Taliban
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Law 2009</span></span> (“Human Rights Brief,” Vol 17 Iss 1 [[http://www.wcl.american.edu/hrbrief/17/171.pdf?rd=1]])
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Pressure on the U.SAND **used <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">to attack the United States.</span>**</span></span>

Third, US detainment policy at bagram is losing america the war in afghanistan
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Horowitz 2009</span></span> (Jonathan, Consultant for the Open Society Institute, “Bagram Prison Threatens Success in Afghanistan” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jonathan-horowitz/bagram-prison-threatens-s_b_275495.html|http://www.huffingtonpost]]<span class="tinyChar">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jonathan-horowitz/bagram-prison-threatens-s_b_275495.html|.]]</span>[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jonathan-horowitz/bagram-prison-threatens-s_b_275495.html|com/jonathan-horowitz/bagram-prison-threatens-s_b_275495.html]], Waldman) 
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The U.S. military AND . is supposed to be courting.</span></span>
Now the Impacts- 

First a nuclear terrorist attack is inevitable by 2013- this would destroy the economy, plan is critical to starting negotiations now.
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Allison 10</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>**Douglas Dillon professor of government and director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government (Graham, “A Failure to Imagine the Worst,” Foreign Policy, January 25th, <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/25/a_failure_to_imagine_the_worst?page=0,0]]</span>
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">In his first speech to the AND and relentless determination to pursue it.</span></span>

Economic contraction would cause collapse, mass starvation, totalitarianism, and nuclear war
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Nyquist ‘5</span>
(J.R, expert in geopolitics and international relations, WorldNetDaily contributing editor, “The Political Consequences of a Financial Crash,” 2-4-05, http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2005/0204.html)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">Should the U<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">nited </span>S<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">tates</span> experience</span></span> a AND poison and now we must die.”

And Nuclear terrorism cause global nuclear exchange
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Speice 06</span></span> – 06 JD Candidate @ College of William and Mary <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Patrick F. Speice, Jr., “NEGLIGENCE AND NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION: ELIMINATING THE CURRENT LIABILITY BARRIER TO BILATERAL U.S.-RUSSIAN NONPROLIFERATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS,” William & Mary Law Review, February 2006, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427]edlee</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Accordingly,</span> <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">there is a significant</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> AND </span></span><span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">the use of nuclear weapons</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. 53</span>

And, Resurgence of the Taliban in Afghanistan collapses Pakistan lead to fundamentalist takeover and escalating global nuclear conflict
<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 11pt;">Morgan</span></span>, Former British Labour Party Exectutive Committee Member, Political Psychologist, 3/4/<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">200<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">7</span></span></span>
[Stephen, ""Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?"," http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]
However events may prove him sorely AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10.5pt;">and Russia pitted against the US</span></span>.__ 



==1AC Finals Woodward== 
Obama administration has NO plans to close the base in Bagram – Solidifying its violation of human rights, international and constitutional law.
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.asil.org/insights090618.cfm#author|Raustiala]]</span> 2009</span></span> (Kal, IL member, is Professor of Law at UCLA Law School and Director of the Ronald W. Burkle Center for International Relations at UCLA. He is a member of the editorial boards of the //American Journal of International Law// and //International Organization//., “**Is Bagram the New Guantánamo? Habeas Corpus and** //**Maqaleh v. Gates,” American Society of International Law http://www.asil.org/insights090618.cfm)**//
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">The U<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% windowtext;">nited </span>S<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% windowtext;">tates </span>has announced no AND </span></span>an unconstitutional suspension of //habeas corpus//.

But draw down in Afghanistan is inevitable- and triggers the link to your disads
Edward Irving <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Koch</span></span> has served in Congress and as the Mayor of New York City. This army veteran is currently a partner in a law firm and hosts his own radio program. Koch is also a regular guest on television programs and his articles can be read in top publications. “Withdraw From Afghanistan” – Newsmax – June 29th, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2010</span></span> – http://www.newsmax.com/Koch/Afghanistan-withdraw-UStroops-Obama/2010/06/29/id/363364
President Barack <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">Obama</span></span> did the right AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">obvious one: Bring them home</span></span>. 


**Westboro ruling thumps their courts DAs**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">National Journal 3/4</span>** (Ben Terris, 3/4/11, " Manchin and Begich Criticize Military Funeral Protesters ", http://www.nationaljournal.com/congress/manchin-and-begich-criticize-military-funeral-protesters-20110304)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Members of </span>__the Westboro Baptist Church__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND </span>__Somebody is going to get hurt__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">."</span>

Judicial independence
<span class="apple-style-span">Recent Court rulings on Bagram have set a precedent of total deference to Congress, the Executive and the Military.</span>
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the New york times 2010 (“</span></span>Backward at Bagram”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/01/opinion/01tue1.html]] Waldman)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">One of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the most vital job</span>s <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">AND </span>be held indefinitely in harsh conditions.</span></span>

And, Global Democratic Transitions are Underway --- Strong Signal from the Supreme Court Upholding Judicial Review against Executive Detention Centers is key to Stable Transitions 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">The International League for Human Rights 2004 </span></span>[Amici Brief Al Odah v. US 2003 U.S. Brief 334. [[http://jenner.com/| http://www.jenner.com/files/tbl_s69NewsDocumentOrder/FileUpload500/82/AmiciCuriae_Center_for_Justice_Int_League_Human_Rights_Adv_For_Indep_Judiciary2.PDF/]]] 
Many of the newly independent governments AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">in detaining persons</span></span> in Guantánamo Bay.

Illiberal majoritarian transitions cause genocide and war 
Fareed <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Zakaria</span></span>, PhD Poli Sci @ Harvard, Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">1997</span></span> ([[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/other/democracy.html]]) 
Lang's embarrassment highlights two common, AND ha<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">s</span> little to do with democracy. 

These conflicts go nuclear 
Bruce W. <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Jentleson</span></span>, (director, Terry Sanford Inst of Public Policy, prof public policy and poli sci, Duke), June <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">1996</span></span>, University of California, Davis, Policy Paper # 27, www-igcc.ucsd.edu. 
There are three bases for this AND sovereignty-abridging intermediations and interventions.

Judicial independence is the ONLY way to solve
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">O’Donnell 1</span></span>
Guillermo, Coordinator for Club Madrid Legal Discussion,The Judiciary and its Relations with the Executive, http://www.clubmadrid.org/cmadrid/index.php?id=93
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">The</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> most important <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">challenge for the AND </span></span></span>the presence of an independent judiciary.

European relations

first, Bagram is the key test for rendition and secret prison abuse. Closure is key and spills over
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">ACLU 2010</span></span> (American Civil Liberties Union, “Federal Court Rules Bagram Prisoners Can’t Challenge their detention in US Courts,” May 21st http://www.aclu.org/national-security/federal-court-rules-bagram-prisoners-cant-challenge-their-detention-us-courts)
NEW YORK – <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">A federal court</span></span> AND Red Cross confirmed existed last week."

US is regarded negatively by the European Union because of extraordinary rendition now, which undercuts cooperation between the two
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Smith 07</span></span> (JULIANNE SMITH, DIRECTOR AND SENIOR FELLOW, EUROPE PROGRAM, CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES, In a report for Congress, “EXTRAORDINARY RENDITION IN U.S. COUNTERTERRORISM POLICY: THE IMPACT ON TRANSATLANTIC RELATIONS”, [[http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/110/34712.pdf]], Hemanth)
The transatlantic relationship has long been AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">S. stated policies and action. </span></span>

practices of extraordinary rendition are destroying our cooperation with European countries
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Smith 07</span></span> (JULIANNE SMITH, DIRECTOR AND SENIOR FELLOW, EUROPE PROGRAM, CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES, In a report for Congress, “EXTRAORDINARY RENDITION IN U.S. COUNTERTERRORISM POLICY: THE IMPACT ON TRANSATLANTIC RELATIONS”, [[http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/110/34712.pdf]], Hemanth)
As a European analyst, who AND <span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">affected our relationship at other levels</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span></span>

Some degree of cooperation is inevitable, it’s only a question of how much support Europe offers us
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Smith 07</span></span> (JULIANNE SMITH, DIRECTOR AND SENIOR FELLOW, EUROPE PROGRAM, CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES, In a report for Congress, “EXTRAORDINARY RENDITION IN U.S. COUNTERTERRORISM POLICY: THE IMPACT ON TRANSATLANTIC RELATIONS”, [[http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/110/34712.pdf]], Hemanth)
Again, <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">negative public sentiment toward AND </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">revitalize the Coalition’s mission and morale. </span></span>

Scenario one is counter-terror

US-EU counter-terror co-operation solves terrorism globally—specifically, Pakistan, the PKK, and the peace process—but controversy over extraordinary rendition hinders this cooperation
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Brady 10 </span></span>(Hugo, CER Senior Research Fellow on EU institutions and justice and home affairs, previously worked as a desk officer in the political division of the Irish Department of Foreign Affairs and as a research associate on the constitutional treaty at the Institute for European Affairs in Dublin. He has also worked as a journalist and sub-editor with the Sunday Business Post, an economic and financial newspaper, and the Irish national broadcaster RTÉ, holds a M.Econ.Sc (European Economic and Public Affairs) from University College Dublin and a Diploma in European Law from the Law Society of Ireland. He has a degree in journalism from Dublin City University. Center for European Reform, “The EU and Counter-terrorism: Next Steps”, [[http://www.cer.org.uk/pdf/brady_tgae_2010_final.pdf]], Hemanth)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Terrorism is a difficult subject for AND </span></span>in Middle Eastern and African countries. 

Now the Impacts 
Collapse of Pakistan results in terrorist seizure of nuclear weapons and an attack on Kashmir
Frederick <span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">Kagan</span></span>, resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and Michael O’Hanlon, senior fellow at the Brookings Insitute, 11-18-<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">07</span></span>
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/18/opinion/18kagan.html?ref=opinion, New York Times, Pakistan’s Collapse, Our Problem
AS the government of Pakistan tottersAND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">using Special Forces to destroy them</span></span>.

Israeli/Palestinian Conflict will cause a third world war with nuclear exchange
<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">The Scotsman</span></span>, 1/28/<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">2002</span></span>
IF THERE is to be <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">AND richest economic prize in the world"..</span></span></span>

And Nuclear terrorism cause global nuclear exchange
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Speice 06</span></span> – 06 JD Candidate @ College of William and Mary <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Patrick F. Speice, Jr., “NEGLIGENCE AND NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION: ELIMINATING THE CURRENT LIABILITY BARRIER TO BILATERAL U.S.-RUSSIAN NONPROLIFERATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS,” __William & Mary Law Review__, February 2006, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427]edlee</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Accordingly,</span> <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">there is a significant</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> AND </span></span><span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">the use of nuclear weapons</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. 53</span>

Scenario two is Basing:
Aside from destroying our relations with Europe, extraordinary rendition practices destroy our relations with Italy
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Washington Post</span></span> **–** July 3, 20<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">05</span></span> (Sunday Final Edition; Editorial; B06; //A Roman Mess//)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">It is not known, and AND </span></span>Mr. Nasr and his associates.

**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">US-Italy relations are key to access to Italian bases </span>**
Alise <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Frye</span></span>, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, 9-24-<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2002</span></span> (http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/Archive/P.20020924.CSBA_Releases_Repo/P.20020924.CSBA_Releases_Repo.htm) 
Focusing on theater bases for landAND US buildup in the Persian Gulf.

Bases in Italy are key to our offensive against Libya 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">AP 3-19</span></span>/11 (“Military buildup for Libya mounts at Italy bases”, [[http://www.hindustantimes.com/Military-buildup-for-Libya-mounts-at-Italy-bases/Article1-675456.aspx]], Hemanth)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">S<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">ix Danish F-16 fighter AND </span></span></span>"moderate but determined" military support 

Failure to quickly win the Libyan offensive collapses the economy, destabilizes Africa, the Middle East, and the Mediterranean, and leads to terrorism and human rights abuses
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Pack 3/18</span></span>/11 (Jason, is a researcher of Libya at Oxford University's St. Antony's College. He has worked in both Tripoli and Washington, D.C., on strengthening U.S.-Libya relations, “Libya Is Too Big to Fail”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/03/18/libya_is_too_big_to_fail?page=0,0]], Hemanth)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">What makes Libya so important</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">?</span></span> AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">big to be allowed to fail</span></span>. 

Economic contraction would cause collapse, mass starvation, totalitarianism, and nuclear war
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Nyquist ‘5</span>
(J.R, expert in geopolitics and international relations, WorldNetDaily contributing editor, “The Political Consequences of a Financial Crash,” 2-4-05, http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2005/0204.html)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">Should the U<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">nited </span>S<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">tates </span>experience</span></span> a AND poison and now we must die.”

African instability causes nuclear war
Dr. Jeffrey, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Deutsch</span></span>**,** economist, founder, Rabid Tiger Project, RAPID TIGER NEWSLETTER, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2002</span></span>, p. <span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">[[http://www.rabidtigers.com/rtn/newsletterv2n9.html]]</span> (no longer accessible)

<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The Rabid Tiger Project AND and some people love to go fishing</span></span>

Scenario three is global cooperation

US-EU cooperation is key to successful climate change policies – now is the key time
<span class="verdana">Julianne </span><span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Smith</span></span><span class="verdana">, director of the CSIS Europe Program, </span><span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2008</span></span><span class="verdana">, “</span><span class="ssl0">The </span><span class="hit">Transatlantic Climate Change Challenge”</span> <span class="verdana">The Washington Quarterly, </span><span class="hit">Winter 2007-2008, l/n</span>
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">Both sides of the Atlantic appear AND </span></span>the first 100 days in office. 

Warming means extinction 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Henderson 06</span></span> [Bill Henderson, environmental scientist, “Runaway Global Warming Denial.” Countercurrents.org August 19, 2006. http://www.countercurrents.org/cc-
henderson190806.htm.]

**<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">T</span>**he scientific debate about human induced AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">extinction</span></span> or very near extinction <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">of humanity</span></span>

US/EU cooperation prevent global conflict esclation
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Asmus 2003 </span></span>(Ronald D.; Senior Fellow - Council on Foreign Relations) Rebuilding the Atlantic Alliance" Foreign Affairs Sept/Oct l/n
Meeting in Washington in the spring AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">be much the better for it</span></span>.

===2AC PTX=== 
Plan Overwhelmingly Popular
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hewitt 2009</span></span> (Hugh, Professor @ Chapman University Law School, “Thomas Ricks on the general shake-up in Afghanistan, and what Pelosi knew or didn't know about waterboarding” http://radioblogger.townhall.com/talkradio/transcripts/Transcript.aspx?ContentGuid=e7532030-1c2f-417a-af65-46e4b9826313 Waldman) 
It just makes me want to AND grow up in my country discussing.

===2AC T=== 
====Substantial==== 
Police are those involved with prisoners 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Princeton No date</span></span> (http://wordnetweb.princeton.edu/perl/webwn?s=military+police&sub=Search+WordNet&o2=&o0=1&o7=&o5=&o1=1&o6=&o4=&o3=&h=0 )
Noun (n) <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">military police</span></span>AND AND corps that <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">enforces discipline and guards prisoners</span></span>

Police run the detention facilities
<span class="tagsChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">B</span></span>. <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Fayobserver 6/10</span></span> (Sun Jun 06, 2010 “With the Troops: Military Police run Afghan detention facility”
http://www.fayobserver.com/articles/2010/06/06/1003788?sac=Home)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Police run Afghan detention facility BAGRAM</span></span> AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">from Fort Bragg oversee the operation</span></span>.



Counter interpretation--Substantially means significant
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Concise Oxford English Dictionary 2008</span></span>, Twelfth Edition, Oxford Reference Online, http://www.oxfordreference.com.proxy1.cl.msu.edu/views/ENTRY.html?entry=t23.e56062&srn=1&ssid=464527616#FIRSTHIT
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Substantially </span></span>→ adv. 1. <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">AND </span></span>the most part; essentially.AND 

We meet our counter-interpretation
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Petraeus 4</span></span> (David, he’s qualified, The Counterinsurgency Field Manual, <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/irp/doddir/army/fm3-24.pdf]]</span>**)**
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Detentions and interrogations are critical components AND </span></span>noncombatants, Soldiers, or Marines. 

====Eliminate==== 
Counter-Interp: Federal code proves elimination is a way to reduce.
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">US Code 2005</span></span> (Code of Federal Regulations - Title 26: Internal Revenue (December 2005), 26 CFR 54.4980F-1, http://cfr.vlex.com/vid/54-significantly-reducing-future-accrual-19711258)
(c) Elimination or AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">or cease</span></span> or elimination or cessation.

====Must cap Presence==== 
CI<span style="font-weight: normal;">—</span> <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reduce means to make something smaller in size</span></span>
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dictionary.com</span></span> (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/reduce]]</span>, date accessed: 6/25/<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2010</span></span>, AJK)
1.<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">to bring down to AND </span></span>reduce the speed of a car.

===2AC Add On- Pakistan Relations=== 
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Bagram detention center destroys US-Pakistan relations</span></span>
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Yusuf 09</span></span> (”Bagram and the fine print “http://www.dawn.com/wps/wcm/connect/dawn-content-library/dawn/news/pakistan/14-bagram-and-the-fine-print-zj-04 Huma Yusuf is an award-winning columnist and investigative journalist. She writes a weekly column in the leading Pakistani English-language daily, Dawn, on topics related to security, terrorism, foreign relations, and human rights. Her work recently garnered the Best Column Award from the All Pakistan Newspapers Society.

<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">For its potential to sour USAND </span></span>the US and other international forces. 
US-Pakistan relations key to Afghan stability
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Haddick 7/30</span></span> (“This Week at War: Pakistan Is Winning the War in Afghanistan” Robert is Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal. He writes the “This Week at War” column for Foreign Policy [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/07/30/this_week_at_war_pakistan_is_winning_the_war_in_afghanistan?page=0,1]]) 
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">U.S. policymakers have</span></span> AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">managed<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> the </span>rest of the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">match.</span></span></span>

Afghanistan conflict causes central Asian instability that goes nuclear 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Starr, 1</span></span> (December 13, Chair of Central Asia-Caucasus Institute at John Hopkins University, “The War Against Terrorism and U.S. Bilateral Relations with the Nations of Central Asia,” Testimony before Senate Subcommittee on Central Asia and the Southern Caucasus)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">All of the Central Asian <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">states AND U.S. cannot ignore</span></span></span>.
=== === 

===2AC I-Law Good=== 
====Bioweapons==== 

CIL stops the use of biological weapons
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Koplow 9</span></span> (David A., Michigan Journal of International Law, Summer, 30 Mich. J. Int'l L. 1187, Lexis) ELJ
A. Discrimination The first fundamental AND particular hostile spacecraft one by one. 

Bioweapons use causes extinction 
John D. <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Steinbrenner</span></span>, Brookings Senior Fellow, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">1997</span></span> [Foreign Policy, "Biological weapons: a plague upon all houses," Winter, InfoTrac]
Although human pathogens are often lumped AND no way to measure it reliably. 

====Free Trade==== 

Implementation Legislation key to commercial trade agreements
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bradley</span></span> Prof Law @ UC ‘<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">98</span></span>[Curtis S. Associate Professor of Law @ Univ. of Colorado. "The Treaty Power and American Federalism" 97 Mich. L. Rev. 390. November Waldman]
Commercial and other private law treaties AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">get in a state legislature."</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10.5pt;"> [[http://www.lexisnexis.com.floyd.lib.umn.edu/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1277585511382&returnToKey=20_T9631363799&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.207313.8231869548#n91|n91]]</span></span>

Free trade prevents nuclear war.
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Copley News Service</span></span>, December 1, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">1999</span></span>
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">For decades, many children</span></span> in AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">. They should be celebrating it.</span></span>

====AT: I-law Bad - Heg==== 
U.S. credibility in international law is key to leadership – it stabilized US power, reduces backlash against unilateralism and increases overall credibility
<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">Krisch 3</span></span> <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Nico. Senior Fellow @ the Center for International Studies @ NYU Law. Unilateralism and US Foreign Policy – edited by Malone and Khong. Pp. 62-63]</span></span>
However, when international instruments reflect AND loss of influence on the other.

Unipolarity is impossible – rising powers
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Layne 06</span></span> Associate Professor at the Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A&M University
(Christopher, “The Peace of Illusions” 149-150)
Although balance-of-power AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">the international system from unipolarity to multipolarity</span></span>


====AT: I-law Bad - Democracy==== 
International law incorporation key to democracy
<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Benvenisti 8</span></span>
Eyal, Professor of Law, Tel Aviv University, RECLAIMING DEMOCRACY: THE STRATEGIC USES OF FOREIGN AND INTERNATIONAL LAW BY NATIONAL COURTS, 102 A.J.I.L. 241
Not so long ago the overwhelming AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">afford to ignore foreign and international law</span></span>
Plan is critical to public integration and checks on the State- Congress Shuts out the public from the debate.
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Resnik 2010</span></span> (Judith, Arthur Liman Professor of Law, Yale Law School., “DETENTION, THE WAR ON TERROR, AND THE FEDERAL COURTS” [[http://www.columbialawreview.org/assets/pdfs/110/2/Resnik.pdf]] Colombia Law Review)
A second lesson is <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">the special AND to independent judges working before the public</span></span>



===2AC JI Good=== 

====Constitution==== 
Judicial independence key to constitution 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Lefkow, Federal Judge, ‘7</span></span>(Joan Humphrey Lefkow [Judge, United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois] “Judicial Independence, Judicial Responsibility: A District Judge’s Perspective” October 2007. Google Scholar) 
At its heart, America AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">therefore, null and void. </span></span>50 


The Constitution prevents nuclear war 
Congressman Dennis <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kucinich</span></span>, D-Oh, March, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2002</span></span>
http://www.downwinders.org/Kucinich_Peace_p.html
"Politics ought to stay out AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">achieved through the unity of all.</span></span>

====Afghanistan Stability==== 
Independent judiciary is key to Afghanistani stability 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">M2 PRESSWIRE</span></span>, January 18, <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2002</span></span>, Lexis 
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Discussions on the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">reconstruction of Afghanistan AND </span>independent judiciary,</span></span>" Amnesty International said.



=Negative= 
== == 

==COIN Neg== 
===Russia DA=== 
Withdrawal ends cooperation and kills relations—this would independently lose the war and turn heg
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gordon M Hahn </span></span>5/21/20<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">09</span></span> senior researcher, Monterey Terrorism Research and Education Program, and visiting assistant professor, Graduate School of International Policy Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, California; senior researcher, Center for Terrorism and Intelligence Studies (CETIS), Akribis Group, California; and analyst/consultant. “U.s. Russian relations and the war against jihadism" http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf p. 8-9 ZM
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">The inability of the U<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% windowtext;">nited</span> S<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% windowtext;">tates</span> AND only benefit the region’s jihadists</span></span>.6

Relations key to solve all global problems and nuclear war ---outweighs the case
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Taylor</span></span> - Atlantic correspondent living in Moscow – <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">‘8</span></span> Jeffrey, Medvedev Spoils the Party, November, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200811u/medvedev-obama
Like it or not<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the AND a volatile future arm in arm.</span></span></span>

Russian sphere of influence and relations key to prevent U.S. Russia War
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sanz 8</span></span>—Oxford University educated author, essayist, and financial analyst (Daniel, For U.S. Security, Next Administration Will Have To Repair Relationship With Russia, 1 October 2008, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ daniel-bruno-sanz/for-us- security-next-admi_b_130894. html, Ajones)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Obama</span> administration <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">will need </span>to AND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">confrontation with Russia</span> at its peril.</span></span>

A US-Russian war is the only scenario for extinction. Such existential risks outweigh diseases, world wars, and smaller nuclear wars.
Bostrom ‘02 
(Dr. Nick, Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies at YALE, "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," 3-8-02, http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html)
Risks in this sixth category are AND future benefits [15,16].

US-Russian relations are necessary to ensure victory in Afghanistan
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nixon Center 2k3</span></span> (“Advancing American Interests and the U.S.-Russian Relationship: INTERIM REPORT,” SEPTEMBER 2K3 HTTP://WWW.NIXONCENTER.ORG/PUBLICATIONS/MONOGRAPHS/FR.HTM)// WLT
President <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Bush has correctly identified terrorism AND same enemies</span></span> (though for different reasons

Strong U.S.-Russian relations are key to effective American leadership, antiproliferation, and the war on terror
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nixon Center 2k3</span></span> (“Advancing American Interests and the U.S.-Russian Relationship: INTERIM REPORT,” SEPTEMBER 2K3 HTTP://WWW.NIXONCENTER.ORG/PUBLICATIONS/MONOGRAPHS/FR.HTM)// WLT
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">At the same time, UAND </span></span>managing unavoidable differences on other issues.

Successfully cooperating with Russia in Afghanistan now—signals high relations and solves stability
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Hindu 10/29</span></span>/10(“In joint raid with U.S., Russia back in Afghanistan” October 29, 2010
Vladimir Radyuhin [[http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/article857110.ece]], Ajones)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">Russian and U.S</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">. AND said the Russian drug control chief.</span></span>

Drug cooperation proves relations are high—the issue of opium in Afghanistan is uniquely divisive, and cooperation is key to relations 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Seattle Times 10/29</span></span> (Michael Schwirtz, 10/29/10, " Russia, US conduct Afghan drug raid ", [[http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/nationworld/2013297365_afghanrussia30.html]] Ajones)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Russian counternarcotics agents took part in AND </span></span>and about 345 pounds of opium.
Russo-U.S. drug cooperation key to regional stability and relations—heroin is the most pressing issue to the russians
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Strategy Page 10/31</span></span> (October 31, 2010 “Russia Invades Afghanistan Again” [[http://www.strategypage.com/htmw/htmurph/articles/20101031.aspx]] Ajones)
: <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Recently, four <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Russian</span> intelligence <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">AND </span></span></span>easy, and progress is slow.

recent Russian—U.S. cooperative efforts have successfully boosted relations and cut opium production –severs funding from insurgency 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gorst 10/29</span></span> (“US-Russian forces smash Afghan drug labs” October 29 2010 22:48 Isabel Gorst Reports for the //Financial Times// from Central Asia and was educated at Bristol Universityand the Universtiy of Lancaster “ [[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/110ae448-e375-11df-8ad3-00144feabdc0.html]] Ajones)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">Russia and the US have destroyed AND </span></span>if US forces withdrew from Afghanistan.

US-Russia relations are hinged upon their joint cooperation in Afghanistan. The Aff plan of troop withdrawal would damage relations between Russia and the US
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Weitz ’10</span></span> (Richard, Writer for the World Politics. “Global Insights: Assessing the U.S. Russia Reset” June 29. http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/5913/global-insights-assessing-the-u-s-russia-reset)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">Afghanistan and even Central Asia also AND </span></span>tackle the remaining areas of tension.

Plan hurts Russia relations
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">McLeod ’10</span></span> (Andrew, Writer for the Caledonian Mercury. “Russia Hopes Obama Is In No Hurry to Quit Afghanistan”. May 8. http://world.caledonianmercury.com/2010/05/08/russia-hopes-obama-is-in-no-hurry-to-quit-afghanistan/00812)
There are hopeful sounds coming out AND the US and Russia in the region
===Heg=== 

Plan tanks heg—we look undependable and become isolationist 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Twining ‘9</span></span> (Dan, Senior Fellow for Asia – German Marshall Fund of the US, former Member of Sec. State. Condi Rice’s Policy Planning Staff, former Transatlantic Fellow and Dir. Of Foreign Policy Program – German Marshall Fund of the US, “The stakes in Afghanistan go well beyond Afghanistan”, 9-30, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The surreal belief in some quarters AND neither our interests nor our values.</span></span>

Perceived as a flip flop by Obama which tanks cred
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kagan</span></span>, Ph.D. AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">regional effects--extremely dangerous ones.</span></span>

Winning the war is key to domestic and international support for our foreign policy
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Fernholz, 10</span></span> – writing fellow at the American Prospect and Research Fellow at the New America Foundation Tim, The American Prospect, “The Ultimate Test Case,” March, 2010, lexis) Katulis = security policy analyst at the Center for American Progress
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The stakes are high<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> in Afghanistan </span>AND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">execute any of his other initiatives</span>.</span></span>

military presence and spending make heg sustainable
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kagan, 07 –</span></span> Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Institution, No. 144, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The world’s failure to balance against AND protection against more worrying foes. 15</span></span>

Only failure can tank heg—spending is .2 percent of GDP
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Carafano</span></span>, Senior Research Fellow for National Security at the Heritage Foundation & Director of the Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">, 1-2- 10</span></span> (James, “Obama must win fast in Afghanistan or risk new wars across the globe,” http://gazettextra.com/news/2010/jan/02/con-obama-must-win-fast-afghanistan-or-risk-new-wa/)
<span class="underlinedChar">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">The war won’t bankrupt America</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">. AND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">in Afghanistan would be incalculably high</span></span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">.</span>

Lack of credibility will make obama a helpless giant 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Posner & Vermeule 07</span></span> - Professor of Law @ University of Chicago & Professor of Law @ Harvard Law School [Eric A. Posner & Adrian Vermeule “ARTICLE: The Credible Executive,” <span class="CharChar3">__University of Chicago Law Review__</span>, Summer, 2007, 74 U. Chi. L. Rev. 865
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">For presidents<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">, </span></span></span><span class="citesChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">credibility is power</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND </span></span>can make all concerned better off.

Withdraw kills credibility, tanks alliances, and allows other powers to fill the vacuum
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Brookes 9 </span></span>– senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation. Adjunct prof, NDU. Doctoral candidate at Georgetown. Master’s in government, Johns Hopkins (9/9, Peter, “Why We Can't Walk Away”, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2009/11/Why-We-Cant-Walk-Away)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">American and coalition success in Afghanistan AND of the most significant national security threat</span></span>
Losing the war decimates cred—countries don’t take us seriously anymore
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Stueck 09</span></span> (William,William Stueck is Distinguished Research Professor at the University of Georgia. He is currently writing a history of U.S.-Korean relations. He is the author of, among other works, Rethinking the Korean War (Princeton University P, 2002) and The Korean War: An International History (Princeton U, 1995), http://www.shafr.org/2009/01/02/iraq-afghanistan-and-american-credibility-historical-parallels-part-i/)
In the latest issue of Foreign AND the Soviet achievement of strategic parity. 

. Perception is a bigger internal link than the aff, also solves their internal link
Tunç 2k8
(Hakan Tunç, Professor of Political Science at Carleton University, Fall 2008, “Reputation and U.S. Withdrawal from Iraq,” Orbis, Vol. 52, No. 4, p. 657-669)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Reputation can be defined as a AND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">U.S. sacrifices.13</span></span></span>

low cred means we have to physically intervene, turns their overstretch internal
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">TR 9</span></span>—Air Force Academy graduate. Master’s in Unconventional Warfare, American Military U. Co-founder of The PULSE Review (The Realist, Why We Are Called the Paper Tiger, 7 June 2009, http://pulsereview.com/?p=1111, AMiles)
__What we perceive is what we AND for everyone involved — especially us.__

We account for over 80% of global military force—zero chance heg structurally collapses
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bandow 10</span></span> (Doug, Senior fellow at the Cato Institute, “Military Spending — For What?,” http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11143, January 19, 2010, LEQ)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">The U.S. has AND global military outlay hits 80 percent</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">.</span>

Be weary of their evidence- its speculation and exageration
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Lieber 8</span></span> – professor of government and international affairs at Georgetown (Robert, World Affairs Journal, “Falling upwards: Declinism, the box set”, http://www.worldaffairsjournal.org/articles/2008-Summer/full-Lieber.html)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Not surprisingly, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the declinist outlook</span> AND propels many of their gloomy forecasts.</span></span>

Overstretch, intervention, and heg are inseparable and structurally cannot decline—its only a question of its credibility
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Mead 7</span></span> (Walter Russell, Henry A Kissinger Senior Fellow of US Foreign Policy @ Council on Foreign Relations, “The Case for Restraint,” November/December, http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=334)
Barry Posen puts his fingers on AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">unlikely to change any time soon.</span></span>

<span class="tagsChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Afghanistan isn’t hurting readiness or retention</span></span>


General <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Amos</span></span>, four-star General in the Marine Corps, Assistant Commandant of the Marine Corps, former Commander of the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing, former Commander of the Marine Corps Combat 
Development Command, former Deputy Commandant AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">do not foresee adverse impacts on retention</span></span>

Large numbers of troops key to developing Afghan forces
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Biddle</span></span>, Senior Fellow for Defense Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, members of the International Security Assistance Force Strategic Assessment Group, 9-23-<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">9</span></span> (Stephen, Council on Foreign Relations Conference Call, Subject: U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan Briefer, Federal News Service [[http://www.cfr.org/afghanistan/us-policy-toward-afghanistan/p20283]] Ajones)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The final related point on the AND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">are more trainers and advisers needed</span></span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">.</span>

That’s key to reducing U.S. OPTEMPO
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Perry</span></span>, Chair of the National Security Advisory Group<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">, 1- 6</span></span> (William, “The U.S. Military: Under Strain and at Risk,” http://merln.ndu.edu/merln/mipal/reports/US_Military_Under_Strain_and_at_Risk.pdf)
In the meantime, DoD should AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">ability to bring American troops home</span></span>.

People wont abandon the dollar
Carla <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Norrlof</span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (</span></span>an Associate Professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Toronto<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">) </span></span><span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2010</span></span> “America’s Global Advantage US Hegemony and International Cooperation” p. 28
First, <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">despite recurrent trade deficit</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">s AND </span></span>there is variation across different periods. 

Budget Cuts due to Withdrawal will NOT solve the Economy- only open us up to threats- collapses hege for good
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kagan 1-24 </span></span>(Robert, contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution. “The Price of Power: The benefits of U.S. defense spending far outweigh the costs, [[http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/price-power_533696.html]] 2011)
Distributing cuts equally is not an AND except at high risk of failure. 

No overstretch—recruiting at all time high
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Peter 9</span></span> (<span class="tinyChar">Thomas A. Peter is a staff writer for the Christian Science Monitor. “High unemployment means high military recruitment.” November 12, 2009. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Military/2009/1112/p17s01-usmi.html]]</span> DA August 9, 2010 )</span>

As a construction worker in southern AND percent of recruits scoring above average.

===Stability/Terror=== 
Ending COIN causes taliban resurgence globally, collapses Pakistan and Afganistan, and is perceived as complete cut and run
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Riedel and O’Hanlon 9</span></span> - Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Saban Center for Middle East Policy and Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings (Bruce, Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, “Why We Can't Go Small In Afghanistan,” Brookings, September 24th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0924_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The fundamental reason that a **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">counterterrorismAND </span>**war, there is little choice.</span></span>


The perception of U.S. commitment is vital to garner support to defeat the insurgency globally
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kagan 09</span></span> – an American resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute (AEI), and a former professor of military history at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. He earned a B.A. in Soviet and East European studies and a Ph.D. in Russian and Soviet military history, both from Yale University. (February 9, Frederick, “Planning Victory in Afghanistan: Nine principles the Obama administration should follow.” http://article.nationalreview.com/385240/planning-victory-in-afghanistan/frederick-w-kagan?page=6
4. COMMIT TO THE EFFORT
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The consistent unwillingness of the UAND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">stomach to finish what it starts.</span></span></span>

Rapid withdrawal turns the entire case, causes rollback--but status quo solves for sustainable presence 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Maclean, 09</span></span>, Staff Writer Reuters (William, “Afghan exit seen worsening risks to region, West,” September 14, http://www.iiss.org/whats-new/iiss-in-the-press/press-coverage-2009/september-2009/afghan-exit-seen-worsening-risks-to-region-west/)
<span class="underlinedChar">**<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Premature Western <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">military disengagement from Afghanistan AND </span></span>**</span>a reality we should not ignore."

Probability--default neg on empirics - they return to Bush’s failed strategy
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bergen 9</span></span> (Peter, Senior Fellow @ New America Foundation, “How Realistic is Walt’s Realism?” August 19th,
http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/08/19/how_realistic_is_walt_s_realism)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The implication of</span></span> Walt's <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">objection to AND has a real chance of success.</span></span>

Magnitude--Taliban controlled Afghan inevitable post withdrawl, risks nuclear terrorism and instability
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Biddle 09</span></span> – Roger Hertog Senior Fellow for Defense Policy, (July-August , Stephen, “Is It Worth It? The Difficult Case for War in Afghanistan”
http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=617)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The Taliban’s weaknesses make it hard AND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">al-Qaeda’s hands</span> in Pakistan.</span></span>

Timeframe—24 hours
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bergen,9</span></span> - Senior Fellow and the co-director of the Counterterrorism and Counterinsurgency Initiative at the New America Foundation (8/1/09, Peter, “Two Arguments for What to Do in Afghanistan,” http://www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2009/two_arguments_for_what_to_do_in_afghanistan_13510)
In August, President <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Obama laid AND Afghan <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">army are still so weak.</span></span></span>

Even partial withdrawals link—they empower hardline military factions in Pakistan which compels regional support for the Taliban and torches the counterterrorism strategy
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rashid, 09</span></span> – former Pakistani revolutionary and journalist (10/27/09, Ahmed, The National Interest, “Trotsky in Baluchistan,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22352)
The threat the United States and AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">departure would seal the region’s fate.</span></span>

Anti Americanism—plan increases it globally
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hegghammer, 9</span></span> a senior research fellow at the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment (FFI) and an associate of the Initiative on Religion in International Affairs at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs (Thomas, “The big impact of small footprints”, 11/11/2009, Foreign Policy, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/19691/big_impact_of_small_footprints.html)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">A growing number of people</span></span>, AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">propagandists, less can be more.</span></span>

government support—cut and run perception means kabul destroys counterterrorism efforts
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tellis, 9</span></span> – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf)
This problem could, of courseAND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">from Afghanistan, confounds the imagination.</span></span>

local recruitment—plan causes Pashtun defections to the Taliban
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gerecht 09</span></span> - contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies. (September 21, Reuel Marc, “A not-so-great game, but one America can't give up.” http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/016/948zygvj.asp?page=6&pg=2 )
Although there has been more ethnic AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">and intimidation that bring them recruits.</span></span>

No escalation—shared interests.
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Collins and Wohlforth 4 </span></span>(Kathleen, Prof PoliSci–Notre Dame and William, Prof Government–Dartmouth, “Defying ‘Great Game’ Expectations”, Strategic Asia 2003-4: Fragility and Crisis, p. 312-3)
Conclusion <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">The popular great game lens AND </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">and domestic stability in Central Asia</span>**</span>.


No impact to collapse- US and allies prevent spillover 
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Silverman, 09</span></span> - PhD in international relations-government and, as a Ford Foundation Project Specialist (11/19/09, Jerry Mark, The National Interest, “Sturdy Dominoes,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22512)
Many advocates of continuing or racheting AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">the level of violence eventually declined.</span></span>

Pakistani people won’t support Taliban control
Lawrence <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Korb</span></span>, senior fellow, Center for American Progress, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, 5.19.<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">09</span></span> http://thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-security-of-pakistans-nuclear-arsenal
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The trip reinforced my belief that AND </span></span>its agreement in the Swat District.

No threat of military coup
Lawrence <span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Korb</span></span>, senior fellow, Center for American Progress, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, 5.19.<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">09</span></span>
http://thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-security-of-pakistans-nuclear-arsenal
Moreover, at this time, <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 10.5pt;">AND the country's economic and social problems</span></span>.


No internal link to terror

a. Safe haven not key, and they’ll just shift locations
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Metz 10</span></span>—Chairman: Regional Strategy, and Planning; Research prof of nat sec affairs, Strategic Studies Institute, Naval War College. PhD, John’s Hopkins (Steven, America's Flawed Afghanistan Strategy, August 2010,http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=1014, AMiles)
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Both the Bush and Obama strategies AND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">no evidence to validate this idea</span>.</span></span>

b. Al Qaeda and Afghanistan aren’t key to terrorism—they access 22% of terrorism at most
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sageman, 9</span></span> – adjunct Associate Professor at the School of International and Public Affairs and former case officer for the CIA (Marc, “Confronting al-Qaeda: Understanding the Threat in Afghanistan,” Perspectives on Terrorism, vol. 3 n.4,http://www.terrorismanalysts.com/pt/index.php?option=com_rokzine&view=article&id=92&Itemid=54)
The above statistics are crystal clearAND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">wannabes are transformed into dangerous terrorists.</span></span>

c. Afghanistan not a key safe haven—yemen and others more important
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Basman 10/8</span></span> (Itzik Basman, U.S. News and World Report, “Mort Zuckerman on Them Mean, Ol' Afghan Blues: Very Strong Argument,” 10/8/10) http://basmanroselaw.blogspot.com/2010/10/mort-zuckerman-on-them-mean-ol-afghan.html
We committed ourselves to a major AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">longer the solution to al Qaeda.</span></span>
===AT: Negotiations=== 
Extremists are extremists—policy interventions premised upon negotiating with the “good” Taliban produce nothing but victories for Islamic extremism
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Curtis and Phillips</span></span>, Senior Research Fellows @ Heritage, 10/5/<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">09</span></span> p. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2009/10/shortsighted-us-policies-on-afghanistan-to-bring-long-term-problems]] DA 7/16/10
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">There appears to be some wishful AND </span></span>, so does al-Qaeda.

There is no “moderate” Taliban – and they’ll switch sides to the radicals anyway
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Flynn 9</span></span> (Kyle Flynn, intern at the Center for a New American Security and student at Georgetown University, October 13, 2009, “Taliban without al Qaeda? (II): Why it is a bad bet”, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://ricks.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/10/13/taliban_without_al_qaeda_ii_why_it_is_a_bad_bet]]</span>)
What interested me here was that AND <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">fighting all these years is ridiculous. </span></span>

Negotiation fails – no one will agree to terms
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Haass 10</span></span> (Richard N. Haass, President of the Council on Foreign Relations, July 18, 2010, “We’re Not Winning. It’s Not Worth It”, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.newswek.net/2010/07/18/we-re-not-winning-it-s-not-worth-it.html?from=rss|http://www.newswek.net/2010/07/18/we-re-not-winning-it-s-not-worth-it.html)]]</span>
<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">There are,</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> however, </span><span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">other AND </span></span><span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">national-unity government is farfetched.</span></span>

Eradicates US regional influence, turning heg
<span class="citesChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Perlez 6/24</span></span> [Jane, chief The New York Times correspondent in Pakistan since late 2007, Pakistan seeks foothold in Afghanistan without U.S., NYT, Statesman, 2010, DA 7/15/10]
ISLAMABAD — <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Pakistan is exploiting</span></span> the AND strategy because he helped shape it."



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]