**Ontology 1AC**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">**The liberal democratic order has created a permanent condition of war – the function of the resolution is not to establish peace, but to establish a __strategic order of relations__ between liberal subjects. Two months into the debate season and it’s clear we’ve missed the point – reduction in our force posture is not some revolutionary political move, it is part-and-parcel of an insidious strategy of the consolidation of sovereign state authority, a pervasive culture of security.**</span>
**<span class="CiteChar">Burke 7</span>** (Anthony Burke, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Ontologies of War,” in //Theory & Event//, Vol. 10, Iss. 2) 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">This tells us much about...ineffective,</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> dysfunctional or chaotic.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">**The debate over troop reductions occurs to contain the contradictions created by U.S. hegemonic murder and violence. Nowhere is logic more prominent than in the debate over troop reductions discussed by the resolution.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Shor 2010(Francis**, War in the Era of Declining U.S. Global Hegemony, Issue 2, 2010, Journal of Critical Globalisation Studies, pp.65-81) </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">There can be....</span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">attendant geopolitical military strategies.</span></span>


<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The desire for security is premised upon a particular ontological framework that commits itself to order and control – not only of conflict, but of life itself. This vision fails repeatedly, but somehow we __never learn__ – strategic planners remain committed to the fundamental __illusion__ that the Earth can be shaped and molded to fit our image of perfection. This constant need for control culminates in __destruction__ in the pursuit of technological dominance – the drive to order __anything__ and __everything__ guarantees that the mass graves and nuclear holocausts of the 20th century are repeated. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**<span class="CiteChar">Burke 7</span>** (Anthony Burke, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Ontologies of War,” in Theory & Event, Vol. 10, Iss. 2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">By itself, such an account...</span><span style="font-size: 15px;">or obstinate matter. </span></span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The negative will argue that we must resolve some particular instance of international insecurity; however, the causes of wars __run deeper__ – particular events and threats flow on a deeper bed-rock of strategic reason and sovereignty which render conflict unavoidable. These dual ontologies render conflict unavoidable and necessary since all life becomes usable for geostrategic ends. </span>**
**<span class="CiteChar">Burke 7</span>** (Anthony Burke, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Ontologies of War,” in Theory & Event, Vol. 10, Iss. 2) 

<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">This essay develops...will continue to be made</span>


<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"><span style="line-height: 19px;">The 1AC is not some contrived commitment to instrumental policy affirmation. Instead, we should use this debate space as a place of </span>__<span style="line-height: 19px;">refusal</span>__<span style="line-height: 19px;">. Using the resolution as our platform for analysis, </span></span><span style="border: 1pt solid black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 19px; padding: 0in;">We __refuse__ the military presence of the United States federal government.</span></span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The 1AC is a __radical break__ with politics-as-usual – we should __rupture__ the language of security, by imagining a world without it, and realizing that insecurity is a part of the human condition </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**<span class="CiteChar">Neocleous 8</span>** (Mark Neocleous, Prof. Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History at Brunel University – West London, “Critique of Security,” p. 184-6)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;"><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The only way...</span></span><span style="line-height: 22px;">return the gift.</span></span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">We must use the debate space and our unique position as intellectuals to oppose the privatized and militarized forms of academia that silence dissent and intellectual democratic freedom. Failure to recapture the public space for critique and pedagogy cedes victory to the neoliberal consensus that systematically labels disposable populations and ensures the reproduction of the status quo. </span>**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Henry A. </span>**<span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 11pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Giroux</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">, </span></span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chair in Communications in the Faculty of Humanities</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> at McMaster University in Canada, </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 11pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">20**10**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">, </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Truthout, “The disappearing Intellectual in the Age of Economic Darwinism.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">In my view...</span>justice become possible.


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Furthermore, the topic is a __crucial__ starting point. A genealogical analysis of how security in international relations has __come to be__, and how strategic logic has come to __dominate debate__, opens the space for a new politics. </span>**
**<span class="CiteChar">Burke 2</span>** (Anthony, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Aporias of Security,” in //Alternatives// 27, p. 18-23)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Security and Gender...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">possibilities might be</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Academic debate has become an incoherent cesspit of bureaucratic roleplaying – critical dissent and political activism is only possible when we recognize our complicity as intellectuals in the processes of power and domination. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**<span class="CiteChar">Biswas 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (Shampa Biswas, Politics @ Whitman College, </span>“Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist” //Millennium// 36 (1) p. 117-125) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The recent resuscitation...</span><span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">of the vocation.21</span>



**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Politics 1AC </span>**

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Four days after the U.N lifted sanctions in Iraq, the gunbarrel of democracy liberated the oppressed citizens of Iraq from the horror of a fascist… economy and declared the country open for business. Meanwhile, back at the home front, your everyday American is sacrificing our liberties to support our troops. The patriot acts getting renewed for 2011, into it’s tenth year now, after 9/11 changed everything. Who would’ve thought ten years ago that flying on an airplane meant that you had to get naked and your grandma had to be felt up for her hip replacement. WE are always at threat level orange. We strike preemptively. We are economical gentlemen who buy your country and sell it back to you for half as much. And this year we get the topic to withdraw our military forces, with no discussion of why we where there in the first place.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Wendy Brown**, Theory and Event. 7:1 | © **2003**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The <span class="DebateUnderline">Bush Administration's imperial adventures in Afghanistan and Iraq ... as the criteria for policy making</span>.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The military is the iron fist of the free market. “Full spectrum Dominance” “the revolution in military affairs” and a strategy of “shock and awe” are the flipside of a flatter world. Empire today is a noxious mix of deterritorializing countries into the global networked economy and reterritorializing fascist police spaces like Guantanamo.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Matthew <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sparke</span></span>, Political geography: political geographies of globalization, Progress in Human Geography 28,6 (<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span></span>) pp. 777– 79</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Friedman’s The lexus and the olive tree... ... (bring to a boil, add oil, then bomb)’ (Roy, 2003c).</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The model of a global war against shadowy insurgents in the name of peace is the Orwellian eq__u__ation of war and peace. Homo Economicus must be defended against asignifying non-productive radical terrorism. To defend “us” against “them”, we engage in explicitly bio-political measures of secret surveillance, indefinite detention, and a perpetual global racial war, in a permanent state of exception**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Leerom <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Medovoi</span></span>, Global Society Must be Defended. Social Text 91, Vol. 25, No. 2, Summer <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="DebateUnderline">What if we approach war</span>, ... also war without frontiers</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The Western “Kill to save” mentality is the root cause of the atrocities of modernity. We must move beyond the clash of civilizations thesis and beyond the end of history to survive.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Santos 03.** (Boaventura de Sousa, Director for the Center of Social Studies at the University of Coimbra) 20**03**, http://bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Franz Hinkelammert</span>, the West ...<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> world's poorest countries for four years.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Therefore, Benson and I reject the military presence of the United States Federal Government in Iraq and Afghanistan</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The challenge of 9/11 is to reflect upon it’s implications for what human lives we mourn, and how we depend on others for our lives. We reject the shallow call for nationalism an jingoism and a loss of free speech and pedagogic responsibility. This ethical commitment opens space for new nonviolent political communities**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CharacterStyle3"><span style="font-family: 'Liberation Serif',serif; letter-spacing: 0.35pt;">Butler, 2004, </span>Maxine E</span>lliott professor in the Departments of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature at<span class="CharacterStyle3"> Berkeley. (Judith, Precarious Life: The powers of Mourning and Violence, p. XI-XV)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The five essays collected here were all written after September 11, 2001, ... a grievable death?</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**This calls for a new politics that is not based on static interpretations of truth and power.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anthony Burke</span></span><span class="CharacterStyle3"><span style="letter-spacing: 0.35pt;">, </span></span><span class="CharacterStyle1"><span style="font-size: 11pt; letter-spacing: 0.8pt;">Senior Lecturer in the School of Politics and </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; letter-spacing: 0.35pt;">International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Sydney. Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence. p. 89-1. December 26th, </span></span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span></span><span class="CharacterStyle1"><span style="font-size: 12pt; letter-spacing: 0.35pt;">.</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CharacterStyle3"><span style="letter-spacing: 0.6pt;">But can this balance be struck so easily? ...</span></span> as such an ethos.75</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Neutrality is a myth-as we engage this topic in an educational setting we either propogate the status quo or analyze globalization and war from the standpoint of the oppressed.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Paul **Zeleza**, Director of the Center for African Studies at the University of Illionis at Urbaan-Champagne, **2003**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[//Rethinking Africa’s ‘Globalization’// p. 42-49, 60-61]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify; text-indent: 0.25in;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">There is no doubt that l... long victims of oppressive forces from elsewhere, can feel at home</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The academy has an ethical responsibility to revive a politics of hope and combat forms of helplessness that retreat from engagement in favor of learned helplessness.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Henry A. <span class="Author-Date">Giroux, </span>//Chair in Communications in the Faculty of Humanities// at McMaster University in Canada, <span class="Author-Date">2010, </span>Truthout, “The disappearing Intellectual in the Age of Economic Darwinism.”</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In my view, <span class="DebateUnderline">academics have not only a moral and pedagogical responsibility ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Liberation Serif',serif;"> <span class="DebateUnderline">Only then will the struggle for the renewal of peace and justice become possible.</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, analyzing the specific formations of power through critical analysis opens space for critical reflection and counterhegemonic coalitions.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Author-Date">Giroux 2009</span> (Henry A, //<span style="color: #bb0d10;">Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department, Youth in a Suspect society)</span>//</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">As important as Agamben’s ... __what must live and what must die.”____<span style="font-size: 6pt;">140</span>__</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Liberation Serif',serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And elucidating the history of de-politicization inherent in the war on terror and mobilization of populations requires reorienting the frame of politics.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reid, 2009</span></span> (Julian, Life Struggles War, Discipline and Biopolitics in the Thought of Michel Foucault)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__The clarity with ...__ endless polemologies.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And our reframing of international relations away from fascist state-centric decision making prone to war allow us to critically interrogate sovereign actions in context of a global lens – a necessity for a true participatory democracy**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">V. Spike <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peterson</span></span>, Professor of Political Science at the University of Arizona, and Anne Sisson Runyan, Professor in the Department of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies at UC. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1999</span></span>. Global Gender Issues. P. 1-13.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">When</span>ever <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">we study</span> a topic, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">we do so through a lens that ...</span> To study <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">this </span>“what” effectively <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">requires a global lens.</span></span>




===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Non-Combat**</span>=== 

**A. Military presence is non-combat troops.**
**Thomason et al 2** <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.comw.org/qdr/fulltext/0207thomason.pdf]]</span> IDA Paper P-3707, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD Volume I: Main Report” This paper has been prepared by the Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA) in partial fulfillment of a task being performed for the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness). The task, entitled “Effects-Based Assessments of US Presence and Deployment Patterns,” is being conducted to help the DoD identify evidence of the effects that actual and potential alternative US overseas military presence postures and activities have or may have in promoting key US defense and national security strategy goals. James S. Thomason, Senior Analyst, Strategy, Forces and Resources Division, Institute for Defense Analyses EDUCATION Ph.D., International Relations, Northwestern University (1978) B.A., Government, Harvard College (1969) PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE – HIGHLIGHTS Senior Projects Manager, Institute for Defense Analyses Director of consulting team to the CORM Professional Staff Member, Center for Naval Analyses Consultant, State Department Member, Intergovernmental Cooperation Commission, State of Illinois Assistant Professor of Political Science, University of Hawaii HONORS AND AFFILIATIONS Division Nominee, Outstanding Research Analyst, Institute for Defense Analyses Dissertation Fellowship Award, Northwestern University National Institute of Health Research Fellowship Magna cum Laude, Honors thesis, Harvard College
WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE? Our working definition of US overseas military presence is that it consists of all the US military assets in overseas areas that are engaged in relatively routine, regular, non-combat … peacekeeping activities; and to position relevant, capable US military assets such that they are likely to be available sooner rather than later in case an evolving security operation or contingency should call for them.2

**COIN troops are combat**
**Schreer and Noetzel 8** (Benjamin and Timo, analysts at the German Institute for International and Security Affairs in Berlin, “Counter-what? Germany and Counter-Insurgency in Afghanistan,” in Royal United Services Institute Journal, Feb, Vol. 153, No. 1, RUSI)
The third and probably most important factor to explain the benign neglect in German political debate on COIN is societal. German policy-makers from the beginning of NATO’s Afghanistan campaign have framed Bundeswehr participation … German understanding that civilian instruments will not be applied within the framework of ongoing military operations. Secondly, it also neglects the military instrument as the most essential tool in order to conduct targeted offensive actions against insurgents.

**Their interpretation destroys the meaning of “presence”**
**Moghadam 6** (Assaf, The Fletcher School @ Tufts U, and Belfer Center for Science and Int'l Affairs @ Harvard U, "Suicide Terrorism, Occupation, and the Globalization of Martyrdom: A Critique of Dying to Win," in Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Vol 29, No. 8, pp. 707-729)
Pape overstretches his argument that occupation is at the root of suicide terrorism by attempting to place these globalized attacks within a framework better suited to traditional conflicts. To that end, he loosens his definition of … has friendly (or pragmatic) relations. Given this wide definition of “American military presence,” it is difficult to imagine a suicide attack in any country that Pape could not conceivably describe as a “response to foreign occupation.”

**We have a caselist**
**Thomason et al 2** (James S. Thomason, (Project Leader) - with Institute for Defense Analyses, "Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD," July, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA415954]]</span>)
This is generally consistent, for example, with B. Dismukes’ formulation: “Overseas presence encompasses a variety of activities…. In addition to permanent and rotational forces forward on the ground, forces deployed at sea, … training of military officers of former totalitarian and some developing states in the roles of the military in a civil society; foreign military sales and funding and co-production of military equipment with other nations.” [pp. 13–14]




__**Neg - security**__
__**A. The 1ac is grounded in an orientalist discourse of middle eastern security defined according to U.S. imperial interests.**__

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pinar </span>**__<span style="text-underline: thick;">Bilgin</span>__**, @ Bilkent Univ,** __<span style="text-underline: thick;">‘4</span>__ **[//International Relations// 18.1, “Whose ‘Middle East’? Geopolitical Inventions and Practices of Security,” p. 28]**
**What I call __<span style="text-underline: thick;">the ‘Middle East’ perspective</span>__ is usually __<span style="text-underline: thick;">associated with the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span>__nited __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>__tates and its regional allies. It __<span style="text-underline: thick;">derives from a ‘western’ conception of security</span>__ which could be summed up __<span style="text-underline: thick;">as the</span>__ __<span style="text-underline: dash;">unhindered flow of oil at reasonable prices</span>__, the __<span style="text-underline: thick;">cessation of the Arab–Israeli conflict, the prevention of the emergence of any regional hegemon </span>__while __<span style="text-underline: dash;">holding Islamism in check</span>__, __<span style="text-underline: dash;">and the maintenance of ‘friendly’ regimes </span>__that are sensitive to these concerns. __<span style="text-underline: thick;">This </span>__was (and still is__<span style="text-underline: thick;">) </span>__**__a top- down conception **of security that privileged the security of states and military stability.**__ **It is top-down because __<span style="text-underline: thick;">threats to security have been defined largely from the perspective of external powers</span>__ rather than regional states or peoples. In the eyes of British and US defence planners, Communist infiltration and Soviet intervention constituted the greatest threat to security in the ‘Middle East’ during the Cold War. The way to enhance regional security, they argued, was for regional states to enter into alliances with the West. Two security umbrella schemes, the ill-born Middle East Defence Organisation (1951) and the Baghdad Pact (1955), were designed for this purpose. Although there were regional states such as Iraq (until the 1958 coup), Iran (until the 1978–9 revolution) and Turkey that shared this perception of security to a certain extent, many Arab policy-makers begged to differ.22 Traces of this top-down thinking were prevalent in the US approach to security in the ‘Middle East’ during the 1990s. In following a policy of dual containment,23 US policy-makers presented Iran and Iraq as the main threats to regional security largely due to their military capabilities and the revisionist character of their regimes that are not subservient to US interests. However, __<span style="text-underline: thick;">these</span>__ top-down __<span style="text-underline: thick;">perspectives, while revealing</span>__ certain __<span style="text-underline: thick;">aspects of regional insecurity</span>__, at the same time __<span style="text-underline: thick;">hinder others</span>__. For example the lives of women in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia are made insecure not only by the threat caused by their Gulf neighbours’ military capabilities, but also because of the conservative character of their own regimes that restrict __<span style="text-underline: thick;">women’s rights</span>__ under the cloak of religious tradition.24 For it is women who suffer disproportionately as a result of militarism and the channelling of valuable resources into defence budgets instead of education and health. Their concerns __<span style="text-underline: thick;">rarely make it into security analyses</span>__. __<span style="text-underline: thick;">This</span>__ top-down __<span style="text-underline: thick;">approach to</span>__ regional __<span style="text-underline: thick;">security in the ‘Middle East’</span>__ was __<span style="text-underline: thick;">com- pounded</span>__ by __<span style="text-underline: thick;">a conception of security</span>__ that was __<span style="text-underline: thick;">directed outwards</span>__ – that is __<span style="text-underline: dash;">threats to security were assumed to stem from outside the state whereas inside is viewed as a realm of peace</span>__. Although it could be argued – following R.B.J. Walker – that __<span style="text-underline: dash;">what makes it possible for ‘inside’ to remain peaceful is the presentation of ‘outside’ as a realm of danger</span>__,25the practices of Middle Eastern states indicate that this does not always work as prescribed in theory. For many regional policy-makers justify certain domestic security measures by way of presenting the international arena as anarchical and stressing the need to strengthen the state to cope with external threats. While doing this, however, __<span style="text-underline: thick;">they at the same time cause insecurity for</span>__ some __<span style="text-underline: thick;">individuals</span>__ and social groups at home – __<span style="text-underline: thick;">the very peoples whose security they purport to maintain.</span>__ The practices of regional actors that do not match up to the theoretical prescriptions include the Baath regime in Iraq that infringed their own citizens’ rights often for the purposes of state security. __<span style="text-underline: thick;">Those who dare to challenge their states’ security</span>__ practices __<span style="text-underline: thick;">may be</span>__ marginalized at best, and __<span style="text-underline: thick;">accused of treachery and imprisoned</span>__ at worst.**


**B. Orientalist forms of security guarantee genocidal conflicts -- their perspective consolidates the racist hierarchies responsible for global exploitation.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pinar </span>**__<span style="text-underline: thick;">Batur</span>__**, PhD @ UT-Austin – Prof. of Scociology @ Vassar,** __<span style="text-underline: thick;">‘7 </span>__**[“The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide,” in //Handbook of the The Soiology of Racial and Ethnic Relations//, eds. Vera and Feagin, p. 446-7]**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">At the turn of the 20th century, the “Terrible Turk” was the image that summarized the enemy of Europe and the antagonism toward the hegemony of the Ottoman Empire, stretching from Europe to the Middle East, and across North Africa. __<span style="text-underline: thick;">Perpetuation of this imagery in American foreign policy exhibited how</span>__ capitalism met with __<span style="text-underline: thick;">orientalist constructs in the white racial frame of the western mind</span>__ (VanderLippe 1999). __<span style="text-underline: thick;">Orientalism is based on the conceptualization of the “Oriental” othe</span>__r—Eastern, Islamic societies __<span style="text-underline: thick;">as static, irrational</span>__, savage, fanatical, __<span style="text-underline: thick;">and inferior to the peaceful, </span>__rational, scientific__<span style="text-underline: thick;"> “Occidental” </span>__Europe and the __<span style="text-underline: thick;">West</span>__ (Said 1978). __<span style="text-underline: thick;">This is as an </span>__</span>**__elastic construct__ **, proving __<span style="text-underline: thick;">useful to describe whatever is considered as the latest threat to</span>__ Western economic expansion, political and cultural** __<span style="text-underline: thick;">hegemony, and</span>__ **global** __domination **for** exploitation and absorption__ **.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Post-Enlightenment Europe and later America used this iconography to define basic racist assumptions regarding their uncontestable right to impose political and economic dominance globally. When the Soviet Union existed as an opposing power, the orientalist vision of the 20th century shifted from the image of the “Terrible Turk” to that of the “Barbaric Russian Bear.” In this context, orientalist thought then, as now, set the terms of exclusion. __<span style="text-underline: thick;">It racialized exclusion to define the terms of racial privilege and superiority</span>__. By focusing on ideology, orientalism recreated the superior race, even though there was no “race__<span style="text-underline: thick;">.” It equated the hegemony of Western civilization with the “right ideologic</span>__al and cultural __<span style="text-underline: thick;">framework.” It segued into </span>__</span>**__war and annihilation and genocide **and continued to foster and aid the recreation of racial hatred of others with the collapse of the Soviet “other.”**__ **Orientalism’s global racist ideology reformed in the 1990s with Muslims and Islamic culture as to the “inferior other__<span style="text-underline: thick;">.” Seeing Muslims as opponents of</span>__ Christian __<span style="text-underline: thick;">civilization is not new, </span>__going back to the Crusades,__<span style="text-underline: thick;"> but the elasticity and reframing of this exclusion is evident in </span>__**__recent debates__ **regarding Islam in the West, one raised by the Pope and the other by the President of the United States.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Against the background of the latest Iraq war, attacks in the name of Islam, racist attacks on Muslims in Europe and in the United States, and detention of Muslims without trial in secret prisons, Pope Benedict XVI gave a speech in September 2006 at Regensburg University in Germany. He quoted a 14th-century Byzantine emperor who said, “show me just what Muhammad brought that was new, and there you will find things only evil and inhuman, such as his command to spread by the sword the faith he preached.” In addition, the Pope discussed the concept of Jihad, which he defined as Islamic “holy war,” and said, “violence in the name of religion was contrary to God’s nature and to reason.” He also called for dialogue between cultures and religions (Fisher 2006b). While some Muslims found the Pope’s speech “regrettable,” it also caused a spark of angry protests against the Pope’s “ill informed and bigoted” comments, and voices raised to demand an apology (Fisher 2006a). Some argue that the Pope was ordering a new crusade, for Christian civilization to conquer terrible and savage Islam. When Benedict apologized, organizations and parliaments demanded a retraction and apology from the Pope and the Vatican (Lee 2006). Yet, when the Pope apologized, it came as a second insult, because in his apology he said, “I’m deeply sorry for the reaction in some countries to a few passages of my address at the University of Regensburg, which were considered offensive to the sensibilities of Muslims” (Reuters 2006). In other words, he is sorry that Muslims are intolerant to the point of fanaticism. In the racialized world, the Pope’s apology came as an effort to show justification for his speech—he was not apologizing for being insulting, but rather saying that he was sorry that “Muslim” violence had proved his point. </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Through </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">orientalist and __<span style="text-underline: thick;">the white racial frame, those who are subject to </span>__racial hatred and __<span style="text-underline: thick;">exclusion themselves become agents of racist legitimization</span>__. Like Huntington, Bernard Lewis was looking for Armageddon in his Wall Street Journal article warning that August 22, 2006, was the 27th day of the month of Rajab in the Islamic calendar and is considered a holy day, when Muhammad was taken to heaven and returned. For Muslims this day is a day of rejoicing and celebration. But for __<span style="text-underline: thick;">Lewis</span>__, Professor Emeritus at Princeton, “this might well be deemed an appropriate date for the apocalyptic ending of Israel and, if necessary, of the world” (Lewis 2006). He __<span style="text-underline: thick;">cautions that “it is far from certain that</span>__ [the President of __<span style="text-underline: thick;">Iran</span>__] Mr. Ahmadinejad __<span style="text-underline: thick;">plans</span>__ any such __<span style="text-underline: thick;">cataclysmic events</span>__ for August 22, __<span style="text-underline: thick;">but it would be </span>__</span>**__wise to bear the possibility **in mind**__**.” __<span style="text-underline: thick;">Lewis argues</span>__ that Muslims, unlike others, seek self-destruction in order to reach heaven faster. For Lewis, __<span style="text-underline: thick;">Muslims in this mindset </span>__**__don’t see the idea of Mutually Assured Destruction as a constraint__ **but rather as “an inducement” (Lewis 2006). In 1993, Huntington pleaded that “in a world of different civilizations, each . . .will have to learn to coexist with the others” (Huntington 1993:49). __<span style="text-underline: thick;">Lewis</span>__, like Pope Benedict, __<span style="text-underline: thick;">views Islam as the apocalyptic destroyer of civilization</span>__ and claims that reactions against orientalist, racist visions such as his actually prove the validity of his position.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lewis’s assertions run parallel with George Bush’s claims. In response to the alleged plot to blow up British airliners, Bush claimed, “This nation is at war with Islamic fascists who will use any means to destroy those of us who love freedom, to hurt our nation” (TurkishPress.com. 2006; Beck 2006). Bush argued that “the fight against terrorism is the ideological struggle of the 21st century” and he compared it to the 20th century’s fight against fascism, Nazism, and communism. Even though “Islamo-fascist” has for some time </span>****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">been a buzzword for Bill O’Reilly, Rush Limbaugh, and Sean Hannity on the talk-show circuit, for the president of the United States it drew reactions worldwide. Muslim Americans found this phrase “contributing to the rising level of hostility to Islam and the American Muslim community” (Raum 2006). Considering that since 2001, Bush has had a tendency to equate “war on terrorism” with “crusade,” this new rhetoric equates ideology with religion and reinforces the worldview of a war of civilizations. As Bush said, “ . . </span>__****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">we still aren’t completely safe, because there are people that still plot and people who want to harm us for what we believe in” (CNN 2006).</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Exclusion in physical space is only matched by exclusion in the imagination, and racialized exclusion has an internal logic leading to the </span>__**__annihilation of the excluded**.**__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> __<span style="text-underline: thick;">Annihilation</span>__, in this sense, is not only designed to maintain the terms of racial inequality, both ideologically and physically, but </span>**__<span style="text-underline: thick;">is institutionalized with the vocabulary of self-protection</span>__**. Even though the terms of exclusion are never complete,** __<span style="text-underline: thick;">genocide is the definitive</span>__**__<span style="text-underline: thick;"> point in the exclusionary racial ideology, and such is the </span>__**__logic of the outcome__ **of the exclusionary process, that** __<span style="text-underline: thick;">it can conclude only in ultimate domination</span>__**.** __<span style="text-underline: thick;">War</span>__ __and genocide take place with **compliant efficiency to serve the** global racist ideology with dizzying frequency__ **. The 21st century opened up with genocide, in Darfur.**


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C. Rejecting their demand for immediate yes/no policy response is the only way to raise critical ethical questions about the discourse and practice of ir in the middle east.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Shampa </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">BISWAS</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Politics @ Whitman </span>**__<span style="text-underline: thick;">‘7</span>__ **“Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist” //Millennium// 36 (1) p. 117-125**


**The recent resuscitation of the project of Empire should give International Relations scholars particular pause.1 For a discipline long premised on a triumphant Westphalian sovereignty, there should be something remarkable about the ease with which the case for brute force, regime change and empire-building is being formulated in widespread commentary spanning the political spectrum. Writing after the 1991 Gulf War, Edward Said notes the US hesitance to use the word ‘empire’ despite its long imperial history.2 This hesitance too is increasingly under attack as even self-designated liberal commentators such as Michael Ignatieff urge the US to overcome its unease with the ‘e-word’ and selfconsciously don the mantle of imperial power, contravening the limits of sovereign authority and remaking the world in its universalist image of ‘democracy’ and ‘freedom’.3 Rashid Khalidi has argued that the US invasion and occupation of Iraq does indeed mark a new stage in American world hegemony, replacing the indirect and proxy forms of Cold War domination with a regime much more reminiscent of European colonial empires in the Middle East.4 __<span style="text-underline: thick;">The ease with which a defence of empire has been mounted </span>__and a colonial project so unabashedly resurrected __<span style="text-underline: thick;">makes this a </span>__particularly opportune, if not __<span style="text-underline: thick;">necessary, moment</span>__, as scholars of ‘the global’, __<span style="text-underline: thick;">to take stock of our disciplinary complicities with power, to account for colonialist imaginaries that are lodged at the heart of a discipline </span>__ostensibly interested in power but perhaps far __<span style="text-underline: thick;">too deluded by </span>__the formal equality of state __<span style="text-underline: thick;">sovereignty and </span>__overly concerned with __<span style="text-underline: thick;">security </span>__and order.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Perhaps more than any other scholar, Edward Said’s groundbreaking work in //Orientalism// has argued and demonstrated the long and deep complicity of academic scholarship with colonial domination.5 In addition to spawning whole new areas of scholarship such as postcolonial studies, Said’s writings have had considerable influence in his own discipline of comparative literature but also in such varied disciplines as anthropology, geography and history, all of which have taken serious and sustained stock of their own participation in imperial projects and in fact regrouped around that consciousness in a way that has simply not happened with International Relations.6 It has been 30 years since Stanley </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hoffman accused IR of being an ‘American social science’ and noted its too close connections to US foreign policy elites </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and US preoccupations of the Cold War to be able to make any universal claims,7 yet </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">there seems to be </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a curious </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">amnesia </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and lack of curiosity </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">about the </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">political history of the </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">discipline</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">in particular </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">its </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">own </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">complicities in the production of empire</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.8 </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Through what discourses the imperial gets reproduced</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, resurrected and re-energised is a question that </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">should be very much at the heart of a discipline whose task it is to examine </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the contours of </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">global power.</span>__**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thinking this failure of IR through some of Edward Said’s critical scholarly work from his long distinguished career as an intellectual and activist, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">this </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">article </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">is an attempt to politicise and hence </span>__**__render questionable **the** disciplinary traps **that have**__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, ironically, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">circumscribed the ability of scholars </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">whose very business it is to think about global politics </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">to actually think //globally// and //politically//</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. What Edward Said has to offer IR scholars, I believe, is a certain kind of global sensibility, a critical but sympathetic and felt awareness of an inhabited and cohabited world. Furthermore, it is a profoundly political sensibility whose globalism is predicated on a cognisance of the imperial and a firm non-imperial ethic in its formulation. I make this argument by travelling through a couple of Said’s thematic foci in his enormous corpus of writing. Using a lot of Said’s reflections on the role of public intellectuals, I argue in this article that </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">IR scholars need to develop what I call a ‘global intellectual posture’</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. In the 1993 Reith Lectures delivered on BBC channels, Said outlines three positions for public intellectuals to assume – as an outsider/exile/marginal, as an ‘amateur’, and as </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a disturber of the status quo </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">speaking ‘truth to power’ and </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">self-consciously siding with those who are underrepresented </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and disadvantaged.9 Beginning with a discussion of Said’s critique of ‘professionalism’ and the ‘cult of expertise’ as it applies to International Relations, I first argue the importance, for scholars of global politics, of taking //politics// seriously. Second, I turn to Said’s comments on the posture of exile and his critique of identity politics, particularly in its nationalist formulations, to ask what it means for students of global politics to take the //global// seriously. Finally, I attend to some of Said’s comments on humanism and contrapuntality to examine what IR scholars can learn from Said about //feeling and thinking globally// concretely, thoroughly and carefully. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">IR Professionals in an Age of Empire: From ‘International Experts’ </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">to ‘Global Public Intellectuals’ </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">One of the profound effects of the war on terror initiated by the Bush administration has been </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a significant constriction of a democratic public sphere</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, which </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">has included the active and aggressive curtailment of intellectual and political dissent </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and a sharp delineation of national boundaries along with concentration of state power. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The academy </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">in this context </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">has become a particularly embattled site with </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">some highly disturbing onslaughts on academic freedom. At the most obvious level, this has involved fairly well-calibrated neoconservative attacks on US higher education that have invoked </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the mantra of ‘liberal bias’ </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and demanded legislative regulation an </span>**
<span style="display: inline !important;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">reform10, an onslaught supported by a well-funded network of conservative think tanks, centres, institutes and ‘concerned citizen groups’ within and outside the higher education establishment11 and with considerable reach among sitting legislators, jurists and policy-makers as well as the media. But </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">what has </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">in part </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">made possible the encroachment of such </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">nationalist and </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">statist agendas has been a larger history of </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the corporatisation of the university and the accompanying ‘</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">professionalisation’ </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">that goes with it. Expressing concern with ‘academic acquiescence in the decline of public discourse in the United States’, Herbert </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Reid has </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">examined the ways in which the university is beginning to operate as another transnational corporation12, and </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">critiqued the consolidation of a ‘culture of professionalism’ where **academic bureaucrats** **engage in bureaucratic role-playing,** minor academic **turf battles mask the larger managerial power play** </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">on campuses </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and the increasing influence of a relatively autonomous administrative elite and the rise of insular ‘expert cultures’ </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">have led to academics relinquishing their claims to public space and authority. </span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**While it is no surprise that the US academy should find itself too at that uneasy confluence of neoliberal globalising dynamics and exclusivist nationalist agendas that is the predicament of many contemporary institutions around the world, there is much reason for concern and an urgent need to rethink the role and place of intellectual labour in the democratic process. This is especially true for scholars of the global writing in this age of globalisation and empire. Edward Said has written extensively on the place of the academy as one of the few and increasingly precarious spaces for democratic deliberation and argued the necessity for public intellectuals immured from the seductions of power.14 Defending the US academy as one of the last remaining utopian spaces, ‘the one public space available to real alternative intellectual practices: no other institution like it on such a scale exists anywhere else in the world today’15, and lauding the remarkable critical theoretical and historical work of many academic intellectuals in a lot of his work, Said also complains that ‘the American University, with its munificence, utopian sanctuary, and remarkable diversity, has defanged (intellectuals)’16.** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The most serious threat to the ‘intellectual vocation’</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**, he argues,** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">is </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**‘professionalism’ and mounts a pointed attack on the proliferation of ‘specializations’ and** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the ‘cult of expertise’ with their focus on ‘relatively narrow areas of knowledge’, ‘technical formalism’, ‘impersonal theories and methodologies’, and </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**most worrisome of all, their ability and** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">willingness to be </span>**seduced by power__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**.17 Said mentions in this context the funding of academic programmes and research which came out of the exigencies of the Cold War18, an area in which there was considerable traffic of political scientists (largely trained as IR and comparative politics scholars) with institutions of policy-making. Looking at various influential US academics as ‘organic intellectuals’ involved in a dialectical relationship with foreign policy-makers and examining the institutional relationships at and among numerous think tanks and universities that create convergent perspectives and interests, Christopher Clement has studied US intervention in the Third World both during and after the Cold War made possible and justified through various forms of ‘intellectual articulation’.19** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is not simply a matter of scholars working for the state, but </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**indeed** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">a larger question of </span>**intellectual orientation__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**.** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is not uncommon for IR scholars to feel the need to formulate their </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**scholarly** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">conclusions </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**in terms of its relevance for global politics, where ‘relevance’ is measured** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">entirely in terms of policy wisdom</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**. Edward** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Said’s searing indictment of US intellectuals – policy-experts and Middle East experts </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**- in the context of the first Gulf War20** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">is </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**certainly even more** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">resonant in the contemporary context </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**preceding and following the 2003 invasion of Iraq. The space for a** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">critical appraisal </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**of the motivations and conduct of this war has been considerably diminished by the expertise-framed national debate** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">wherein </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**certain kinds** of </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">ethical questions irreducible to formulaic ‘for or against’ and ‘costs and benefits’ analysis </span>____**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">can simply </span>**not be raised__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**. In effect, what Said argues for, and** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">IR scholars need to pay particular heed to, is </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**an** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">understanding </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**of ‘**</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">intellectual relevance’ that is larger and more worthwhile</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**,** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">that is about the posing of critical, historical, ethical </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**and perhaps unanswerable** </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">questions rather than the offering of recipes and solutions, that is about //politics// (rather than techno-expertise</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**) in the most fundamental and important senses of the vocation.21**</span>