[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

**Contention 1 is Inherency.**

**Turkey is the only country in the topic that hosts nuclear weapons. 90 useless B61 bombs remain without any deterrent or defense effect.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span class="AuthorDateChar">Bell and Loehrke</span>** **’09** (Alexandra and Benjamin, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists “The status of U.S. nuclear weapons in Turkey.” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. 11/23/09). http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey) </span></span>

<span class="CardsFont12pt">For more than 40 years,… …</span>forces supporting its nuclear umbrella.

<span class="reduce2">**Text: The United States federal government should withdraw its tactical nuclear presence from Turkey.**</span>

**Contention 2 is Russia.**

**1. TNWs are destroying US-Russian Relations - Good relations are impossible with Turkish TNWs because it reinforces the idea that our relationship is still threat-based. Plan stops resentment.**
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Kristensen</span></span> ‘<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">06</span></span>, (Hans, Federation of American Scientists, "U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Europe: Current Posture and Policy Implications,"[[http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_%20citation/1/0/0/9/1/pages100915/p100915-1.php|http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_ citation/1/0/0/9/1/pages100915/p100915-1.php]])

<span class="CardsFont12pt">Such nuclear </span><span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">bickering between U.S. <span style="border: none;">…<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …<span style="border: none;">the relationship continues to be threat-based</span></span></span></span></span>.

<span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">2. Plan solves – Removing a confidence building measure – it improves and sets a foundation for long-term Russian relations. </span>**</span>
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Beach ‘09</span></span> (Hugh, The end of Nuclear Sharing, US Nuclear Weapons in Europe, December, [[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a918528756&fulltext=713240928]])

<span class="CardsFont12pt">It seems that </span><span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">the continued pre<span style="border: none;">sen<span style="border: none;">ce<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …<span style="border: none;">strategic partner rather than adversary.</span></span></span></span></span></span> </span>

**3. US-Russian Relations literally solve everything**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Graham ‘08 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Thomas, f</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">oreign service officer on academic leave with RAND in Moscow from 1997 to 1998. He previously had several assignments in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, including head of the Political/Internal Unit and acting political counselor. Between tours in Moscow, he worked on Russian/Soviet affairs as a member of the policy planning staff of the State Department and as a policy assistant in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Mr. Graham has a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University and a B.A. in Russian studies from Yale University.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> July 2008 [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080717_graham_u.s.russia.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">What trends? Simply put,</span> __<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">the world… …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">building lasting security economic structures</span></span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**4. Russia isn’t reducing TNWs now – but withdrawal of ours put pressure on them to reciprocate.**
**Pomper, Potter & Sokov ‘09** (Miles Pomper, MA, editor of Arms Control Today @ ACA, Nikolai Sokov, Ph.D., is senior research associate at James Martin Center for Non-proliferation Studies at Monterey Institute of International Studies, William Potter, Ph.D., is Institute Professor and Director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies (MIIS) “Breaking the U.S.-Russian deadlock on nonstrategic nuclear weapons,” [[http://thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/breaking-the-us-russian-deadlock-nonstrategic-nuclear-weapons]])

**For many years __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Moscow's position </span>… …__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">vision of a nuclear-weapon-free world.</span>

**5. Plan is key – Russia WILL remove their TNWs, if and only if we remove ours first.**
**Higgins ‘05** (Davida, CND and Lakenheath Action Group, “US tactical nuclear weapons in Europe,” http://www.cnduk.org/pages/binfo/nato2005.pdf)

<span style="text-indent: .25in;"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">In addition,</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">withdrawal is a precondition </span><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">… </span> …and technology around the world.__ </span>

<span class="Underline">**6. Absent plan, uncertainty over stockpiles leads to US-Russian war** </span>
**Sokov ‘09** (Miles A, William, and Nikolai, The James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, “Reducing and Regulating Tactical (Nonstrategic) Nuclear Weapons in Europe,” December)

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 5pt;">Lack of transparency</span>__… …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a threat to international security</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

<span style="tab-stops: 99.0pt;">**7. US-Russian war is the only scenario for extinction – we control the only existential risk** </span>
**Bostrom ‘02** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Ph.D. and Professor at Oxford University </span><span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Nick, March, [[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html|www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html]]) </span></span>

<span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;">A</span>____<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;"> much <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">greater existential risk</span></span>__ <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">… …</span> <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">thwart</span></span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">humankind</span>____’s potential permanently__**.**

<span class="Underline">**Contention 3 is Iran.** </span>

<span class="reduce2">**1. Iran is building a nuclear arsenal**</span>
<span class="reduce2"> **Pike ‘10.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John Pike, Globalsecurity.org, Weapons of Mass Destruction: Nuclear Weapons, </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/world/iran/nuke.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, 2010.)</span>


**__In December 2003 Presidential hopeful… …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">potentially others</span>," Edwards said.__**

<span class="Underline">**2. Turkish credibility is key to reducing Iran’s arsenal – they’re the single most influential actor** </span>
**Ben-Meir ‘09**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Alon Ben-Meir, Senior Fellow at the Center for Global Affairs in New York University and teaches courses on the Middle East and international negotiations, Spring 2009, The Whitehead Journal of Diplomacy and International Relations, Nuclear Iran is Not an Option: A New Negotiating Strategy to Prevent Iran from Developing Nuclear Weapons) </span>

**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The presence of a third party acting as mediator</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">… …</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">which it has long and friendly relations.</span>__**

<span class="reduce2">**3. However, Turkey can’t convince Iran to stop their nuclear program unless the U.S removes their TNWs** </span>
<span class="reduce2">**Kibaroglu ‘10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mustafa, </span></span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Professor and Vice Chair of the IR dept @ Bilkent U, “Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, Arms Control Today pg 12, June 2010//dml)</span>

<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to improvements in bilateral relations… … </span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">reconsider its policy on U.S. nuclear weapons</span></span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

**4. A nuclear Iran causes proliferation: the nuclear program has already violated many terms of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty**
<span class="tagCharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calabresi ‘03</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span> (Massimo Calabresi, author for Time magazine, “Iran’s Nuclear Threat.” March 8th, 2003. http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,430649,00.html)

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Iran announced last week that</span>… …issue be solved in other ways."</span>

**5. The impact is ARMAGEDDON – Iranian proliferation leads to every major impact**
**Wimbush and Ford ‘10** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">(S. </span>Enders Wimbush, Senior Vice President for International Programs and Policy at Hudson Institute, and Christopher A. Ford, senior fellow and director of the Center for Technology and Global Security at Hudson Institute, 1-14-10, Hudson Institute, Perspectives Upon a Nuclear Iran)

**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Possession of nuclear arms may</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">… …</span>**__America’s role to everyone else.__**

**Contention 4 is NATO.**

[[code]]
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 11.0pt;">1. Put your Consult NATO CPS away - Current NATO debate over the TNWs deployed in Turkey is destroying the alliance </span></span>**
[[code]]
**Landler ‘10**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (The International Herald Tribune April 23, 2010 Friday U.S. to resist NATO push to remove tactical arms MARK LANDLER diplomatic correspondent of The New York Times, based in Washington. Mark is a 1987 graduate of Georgetown University, and was a Reuter Fellow at Oxford in 1997 <span style="color: black;">http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/</span> [lexis])</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Fresh off signing a strategic… …responsive to threats in places like Afghanistan. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">2. Plan solves - Removing our TNW’s from Turkey is the only way to refocus and save NATO</span>**
<span class="reduce2">**Kristensen ’06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Hans, </span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">director of the Nuclear Information Project at the Federation of American Scientists, “US Nuclear Weapons in Europe: A Proposed Solution,” accessed at </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/1/0/0/9/1/pages100915/p100915-7.php]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> on 6/22/10)</span>

<span class="Underline">The suggestion that U.S. nuclear weapons… …</span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> nonproliferation efforts of Europe and the United States.</span> </span>

**<span style="color: black;">3. Moreover, NATO will collapse without modernizing</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">I.A.N. ‘08</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (International Analyst Network,) "General (ret.) Klaus Naumann: "The Gap between NATO Missions and Means is growing as we speak," __http://www.analyst-network.com/article.php?art_id=1607)__</span>


**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">This is the key issue</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">… …</span>__ **in the best possible way. __**

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">4. The collapse of NATO would result in collapse of American Hegemony </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Binnendijk and Kugler ‘04</span>** (Hans and Richard, Theodore Roosevelt Chair in National Security Policy and Direction of the Center for Technology and National Security Policy and Distinguished Research Professor at the Center for Technology and National Security Policy with specialty in U.S. defense strategy, global security affairs, and NATO, “The Next Phase of Transformation: A New Dual-Track Strategy for NATO” from Transatlantic Transformations: Equipping NATO for the 21st century,” ed. By Daniel S. Hamilton, p. 41) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline2">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt;">The damaging effects of NATO collapse… … no longer would provide them</span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> the necessary <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">interoperability</span></span>**</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>** </span>

**5. American primacy is vital to accessing every major impact—the only threat to world peace is if we allow it to collapse**
**<span style="color: black;">Thayer ‘06</span>****<span style="color: black;"> (</span>**<span style="color: black;">professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37) </span>

<span style="color: black;">A grand strategy based … … due to the economic prosperity it provides.</span>


=<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-color: #000000; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1px; border-right-color: #000000; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1px; border-top-color: #000000; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1px; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 5px; padding-left: 5px; padding-right: 5px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>= 
<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-color: #000000; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1px; border-right-color: #000000; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1px; border-top-color: #000000; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1px; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 5px; padding-left: 5px; padding-right: 5px; padding-top: 5px;"> </span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]