<span style="display: block; line-height: 24pt; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; line-height: 24pt; text-align: justify;">(email labountye at gmail dotcom for cite requests.)</span><span style="display: block; line-height: 24pt; text-align: justify;">current as of Feb. 2011 (post-Stanford) - </span><span style="display: block; line-height: 24pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Contention One is Inherency </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 24pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">U.S. Special Forces are expanding in Afghanistan – teams have more than doubled under Obama </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">LA Times 10</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Julian E. Barnes, “U.S. doubles anti-Taliban special forces,” April 15 2010, <span style="color: #0026e2;">[[http://articles.latimes.com/2010/apr/15/world/la-fg-secret-surge15-2010apr15]]</span>) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reporting from Washington — … in mid-2011. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 24pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Contention Two is The Civilian </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 24pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The U.S. is losing the war – failure to win the “human terrain” is dooming coalition efforts and strengthening the Taliban. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reuters 8/30</span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">/10 </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Sayed Salahuddin and Paul Tait, West faces a losing battle for Afghan "human terrain", August 30 2010, Reuters, <span style="color: #0026e2;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSSGE67T0I3]]</span>) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">As the conflict…"the human terrain". </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scenario 1 is civilian casualties: </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Civilian casualties are increasing – up 31% in the first half of this year </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Al Jazeera 8/10</span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">/10 </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Afghan civilian toll up by a third, Al Jazeera [Arabic news source], Aug 10 2010, <span style="color: #0026e2;">[[http://english.aljazeera.net/news/asia/2010/08/201081075049886818.html]]</span>) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">The number of … mid-year report. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Special Ops result in the 80% of civilian casualties – in the ground and the air, they require support that results in mass violence </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lamb and Cinnamond 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Christopher J. [Director, Center for Strategic Research in the Institute for National Strategic Studies (INSS) at National Defense University], Martin [former U.N. official in Afghanistan], “Unified Effort Key to Special Operations and Irregular Warfare in Afghanistan,” //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, <span style="color: #0026e2;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/5.pdf]]</span>) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">This historical overview…high civilian casualties. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Vital internal link to civilian support – deaths result in civilians turning against international forces </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lamb and Cinnamond 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Christopher J. [Director, Center for Strategic Research in the Institute for National Strategic Studies (INSS) at National Defense University], Martin [former U.N. official in Afghanistan], “Unified Effort Key to Special Operations and Irregular Warfare in Afghanistan,” //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, <span style="color: #0026e2;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/5.pdf]]</span>) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Karzai’s stridency may…we’ve been using.30 </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scenario two is covert tactics: </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Special forces pursue domestic night raids in Afghan communities, causing civilian resentment </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Economist 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(“Thinking the worst; Night raids on militants in Afghanistan,” The Economist, May 22 2010, lexis) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Even when no … </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">and do nothing." </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">This is a veritable nightmare – Special Forces arrest people without warrant and cause civilian casualties which alienate populations and mass popular resentment that //outweighs resentment towards the Taliban// </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dorronsoro 9 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Giles [visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. His research focuses on security and political development in Afghanistan, particularly the role of the International Security Assistance Force, the necessary steps for a viable government in Kabul, and the conditions necessary for withdrawal scenarios. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes. He also served as the scientific coordinator at the French Institute of Anatolian Studies in Istanbul, Turkey], “The Taliban's Winning Strategy in Afghanistan,” Carnegie Report, Carnegie Endowment for Int’l Peace, June 2009, <span style="color: #0026e2;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/taliban_winning_strategy.pdf]]</span>) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Civilian casualties from… over the population. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Winning hearts and minds is critical to win the war – tactical success can’t win it</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Benjamin 6</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Daniel [Senior Fellow International Security Program Center for Strategic and International Studies], Testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee: The Changing Face of Terror – A Post 9-11 Assessment, June 13 2006, <span style="color: #0026e2;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/congress/ts060613benjamin.pdf]]</span>) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Unfortunately, that story… and without delay. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Winning the war is critical to avert nuclear terrorism – failure allows Afghanistan and Pakistan to become an international hotbed for terrorists </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cordesman 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Anthony [Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy @ CSIS], “Realism in Afghanistan: Rethinking an Uncertain Case for the War,” Center for Strategic and Int’l Studies, June 16 2010, <span style="color: #0026e2;">[[http://csis.org/publication/realism-afghanistan-rethinking-uncertain-case-war]]</span>) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">The key reasons … </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Indo-Pakistani conflict. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
Terrorism __ensures__ extinction
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Dennis Ray <span class="tagChar">Morgan 9</span>, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Years later, in …in a</span> nuclear winter.
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The threat is particularly acute in Pakistan – Afghan and Pakistan instability allows Taliban insurgents to seize nuclear weapons, resulting in nuclear strikes against western allies </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nagl 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(John [retired officer in the United States Army who is regarded as an influential expert in counterinsurgency], “A Better War in Afghanistan,” //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, <span style="color: #0026e2;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/4.pdf]]</span>) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">The primary objective… is fairly low.11 </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 24pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Contention Three is Accountability </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 24pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scenario 1 is Illegitimate Detention </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Improvements in human rights leadership have been made under Obama, but changes remain incomplete – to regain human rights credibility, the U.S. must act on the principles it has articulated </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roth 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Kenneth [attorney, executive director of Human Rights Watch since 1993], Empty Promises?, New York: Mar/Apr 2010. Vol. 89, Iss. 2; pg. 10, 7 pgs, proquest) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">From a human… throughout the world. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Special Forces are responsible for detention efforts in Afghanistan – the covert nature of their actions means they avoid public scrutiny, allowing detention policies that infringe upon human rights to continue unchecked </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gopal 10 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Anand [has reported in Afghanistan for the Christian Science Monitor and the Wall Street Journal. His dispatches can be read at anandgopal.com. He is currently working on a book about the Afghan war], “Obama's Secret Prisons: Night Raids, Hidden Detention Centers, the "Black Jail," and the Dogs of War in Afghanistan,” January 28, 2010, Huffington Post, printed in the The Nation Magazine, <span style="color: #0026e2;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/anand-gopal/obamas-secret-prisons-nig_b_440401.html]]</span>) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">The American troops… </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">small field prisons. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Abuses in detention diminish human rights credibility to nothing – the way the U.S. wages the War on Terror undermines international credibility, destroying the internal human rights framework </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sadat 6 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Leila Nadya [Henry H. Oberschelp Professor of Law, Washington University in St. Louis], SYMPOSIUM: "TORTURE AND THE WAR ON TERROR": GHOST PRISONERS AND BLACK SITES: EXTRAORDINARY RENDITION UNDER INTERNATIONAL LAW, 37 Case W. Res. J. Int'l L. 309, 2006, lexis) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Finally, the volatile… </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 16pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">terrorist at all. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 16pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Human rights loss causes ethnic conflicts, authoritarian regimes which kills their own citizens, environmental destruction, and catastrophic refugee flows </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shattuck 94</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(JOHN SHATTUCK, ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS, 4/19/94 (Federal News Service, l/n) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">I would like … our foreign policy-making. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reorientation towards human rights //increases// national security – rejecting the idea that national security and human rights are at odds is critical to decrease international aggression </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burke-White 4 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(William [Lecturer in Public and International Affairs and Senior Special Assistant to the Dean, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Princeton University; Ph.D., Cambridge (expected 2004); J.D., Harvard (2002); M.Phil., Cambridge (1999); A.B., Harvard (1998)], U.S. FOREIGN POLICY AND HUMAN RIGHTS: ARTICLE: Human Rights and National Security: The Strategic Correlation, 17 Harv. Hum. Rts. J. 249, Spring 2004, lexis) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Soon after the … </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">States more secure. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scenario 2: deniability </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">SOF are employed in covert operations </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Best and Feickert 9 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Richard A. Best Jr. [Specialist in National Defense], Andrew Feickert [Specialist in Military Ground Forces], Special Operations Forces (SOF) and CIA Paramilitary Operations: Issues for Congress, August 3 2009, Congressional Research Service, <span style="color: #0026e2;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RS22017.pdf]]</span>) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">SOF have reportedly … exist within USSOCOM.5 </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Covert operations are fundamentally undemocratic – result in a policy of deniability that erodes Washington’s credibility in the international sphere </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kibbe 4 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Jennifer [Olin Fellow in Foreign Policy Studies at the Brookings Institution], The Rise of the Shadow Warriors, March/April 2004, Foreign Affairs, proquest) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Covert operations are … </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">of national borders. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Access to information is critical to democracy – its denial results in an unknowledgeable citizenry and citizens rights to assess the decisions of their leaders, providing a veil of secrecy behind which corruption flourishes </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Neuman 2 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Laura [associate director for the Americas Program at The Carter Center and the access to information project manager for The Carter Center], “Introduction” in //ACCESS TO INFORMATION: A KEY TO DEMOCRACY//, The Carter Center [in partnership with Emory University, is committed to advancing human rights], 2002, <span style="color: #0026e2;">[[http://www.cartercenter.org/documents/1272.pdf]]</span>) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Knowledge is power, … </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">as their representatives. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Corruption results in widespread social instability that undermines citizen confidence in democratic institutions </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Neuman 2 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Laura [associate director for the Americas Program at The Carter Center and the access to information project manager for The Carter Center], “Introduction” in //ACCESS TO INFORMATION: A KEY TO DEMOCRACY//, The Carter Center [in partnership with Emory University, is … </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">in democratic institu- tions. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And U.S. democracy is key to global democracy – only by //living up to its own ideals// will democracy flourish abroad. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nye 9 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Joseph S. [former US Assistant Secretary of Defense, is a professor at Harvard University and author of Soft Power: The Means to Success in World Politics], Democracy Promotion Reconsidered, 5/11/09, <span style="color: #0026e2;">[[http://www.project/|http://www.project]]</span> syndicate.org/commentary/nye70/English) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Equally important</span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> to … on the hill.” </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
**Democracy key to global nuclear peace.**
**Muravchik 1**
(Josh, Resident Scholar – AEI, “Democracy and Nuclear Peace”, July, http://www.npec-web.org/Syllabus/Muravchik.pdf)
__The greatest impetus … threatening or outrageous__.

<span style="font-size: 16px; font-variant: small-caps; line-height: 24px;">**Contention 4 is Mazar-I-Sharif**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. The US is building a massive Special Operations base on the Uzbek border in Afghanistan near Mazar-i-Sharif, despite withdrawal plans</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Tynan 10</span>**</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Deirdre Bishkek-based reporter specializing in Central Asian affairs, “US Forces to Build Special Ops Base in Northern Afghanistan”, //EurasiaNet,// July 6, [[http://www.eurasianet.org/node/61473]])</span> </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The</span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">US </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; padding: 0in;">D</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">epartment <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">o</span>f <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">D</span>efense</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> __… of Afghanistan in July 2011.__</span> </span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. The Mazar-i-Sharif base represents a permanent US foothold that angers Russia and China</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Dhar 10. </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">(Maloy Krishna, //Sri Lanka Guardian//, August, [[http://www.srilankaguardian.org/2010/08/americas-afghan-war-how-when-to-exit.html]]) </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="fullpost">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Though rendering support to “neutral” … **permanent foothold in Afghanistan**</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span> </span></span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3. That devastates credibility of Obama’s commitment to a “neutral” Afghanistan – which is the vital internal link to perception of hostile permanent military containment strategy throughout Central Asia</span>**</span></span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bhadrakumar 10</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (M.K., ambassador & career diplomat in the Indian Foreign Service, “Ill-wind blows for a 'neutral' Afghanistan”, //Asia Times Online,// July 25, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/South_Asia/LG24Df01.html]])</span></span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">By a coincidence, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Rasmussen's idea</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> … </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> peaceful, stable and independent Afghanistan ... </span></span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in; tab-stops: 192.0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">4. US presence in Central Asia is the driving force behind the Russia-China alliance. </span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in; tab-stops: 192.0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">KÜÇÜK 09. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Zeki Furkan, MS in Eurasian Studies, “China’s Energy Policy Toward Central Asia and the Importance of Kazakhstan”, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Journal of Social and Political Studies</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, Vol. 3, Number 57, pg. 42) </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">During the Cold War, both Russia and China could not establish close relations, even though they were both socialist states. However, after the collapse of Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War, these countries turned a brand new page in their relations and established close ties based on energy and opposition to the U.S. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The U.S.’s policy in Eurasia, … **the U.S. threat exists in Asia.** </span>__ </span>


[[#_Toc267643080]][[#_Toc141503484]]

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Menges 01. (</span></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Constantine C. Menges, a senior fellow with the Hudson Institute, served as special assistant for national security affairs to President Reagan, ‘1 [Washington Times, June 14, Ln] </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">The new <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">China-Russia … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Communist Party in Russia. </span></span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Thus the plan: The United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) should withdraw Special Operations Forces (SOF) from Afghanistan. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Contention 5 is Solvency </span>**

**Now is key – operations are at their fastest tempo and still increasing – four times the pace of SOF missions during Iraq**
**Bloomberg 9/3**/10
(Petraeus Says Afghan Raids on Rebels Exceed Iraq Pace, 2010, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-03/petraeus-says-afghan-special-missions-are-running-at-four-times-iraq-pace.html)
U.S. Army General … __weeks,__ he said.

**SOCOM can do the plan – has executive control to plan and direct Special Operations Forces**
**Olson 10**
(Eric T. [eighth and current Commander, U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM)], U.S. Special Operations:
Context and Capabilities in Irregular Warfare, //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/8.pdf)
The United States … __U.S. defense policy.__



__**We used to read this -**-__


__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Contention Four is European Support</span>**</span>__
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**In the wake of wikileaks, premature withdrawal of NATO forces is coming – they see the current strategy as failing.**</span>__
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Esman 8/2**/10</span>__
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Abigail [award-winning author-journalist who divides her time between New York and the Netherlands. Her work has appeared in Foreign Policy, Salon, Vogue and the Christian Science Monitor. She is currently working on a book about Muslim extremism and democracy in the West], Dutch Ditch NATO Allies In Afghanistan, 8-2-10, http://www.forbes.com/2010/08/02/netherlands-afghanistan-taliban-opinions-columnists-abigail-esman.html)</span>__
The departure of … not our fight."
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Specifically, European doubts over covert uses of special forces accelerate withdrawal from Iraq and fracture the NATO coalition – escalate public opposition, causing leaders to give in to withdrawal**</span>__
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Dempsey 7/28**</span>__
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Judy [journalist for the New York Times and Int’l Herald Tribune], Leaked Afghan War Reports Heighten European Doubts, July 28 2010, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/29/world/europe/29iht-nato.html)</span>__
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Still, </span>__with European … war,” __he said.__
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Pulling out of international forces causes the Afghan government to collapse, paving the way for extremist theocratic rule in Pakistan**</span>__
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Afghanistan Study Group 8**</span>__
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(“REVITALIZING OUR EFFORTS RETHINKING OUR STRATEGIES,” The Center for the Study of the Presidency, Co-Chairs: General James L. Jones and USMC (Ret.) Ambassador Thomas R. Pickering, January 30, 2008, http://thepresidency.org/storage/documents/FellowsPaperGradingGuidelines/Afghanistan_Study_Group_Report.pdf)</span>__
If international … fundamentalist, theocratic rule.


__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Extremist influence in the Pakistani government jeopardizes the security of the Pakistan nuclear arsenal, leading to break out of war – a radical Islamist government would cede power to forces which would incite war with India, causing regional insecurity**</span>__
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Center for the Study of the Presidency and Congress 10**</span>__
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(“Mobilizing NATO for Afghanistan and Pakistan: An Assessment of the Extremist Threat,” Center for the Study of the Presidency and Congress, Project Senior Advisor General John Craddock, U.S. Army (Ret.), Co-Directors David M. Abshire and W. Bruce Weinrod, January 2010, http://thepresidency.org/publications/post-911-studies/mobilizing-nato-for-afghanistan-and-pakistan-an-assessment-of-the-extremist-threat)</span>__
If the ,,, __in the 1990s.__

__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Middle East instability leads to nuclear war**</span>__
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Steinbach 2**</span>__

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[John Steinbach, nuclear specialist, Secretary of the Hiroshima-Nagasaki Peace Committee of the National Capitol Area, 2002, Centre for Research on Globalisation, “Israeli Weapons of Mass Destruction: a Threat to Peace,” http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html]</span></span>

__<span style="font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Meanwhile, </span>__the existence ,,, a world conflagration__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">." (44)</span>__


__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Indo-Pak conflict is most likely scenario for nuclear war, leading to extinction**</span>__
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Fai 1**</span>__
__<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Ghulam: Executive Director of the Washington-based Kashmiri American Council [“India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir,” Washington Times, July 8, 2001])</span>__
The most dangerous … Fissile Material/Cut-off Convention.


__<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**COUNTER-TERROR TALK K** </span>__

__<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The term “counterterrorism” is used by the state to delegitimize its opposition, while simultaneously shifting the focus away from the state’s own terrorism. The impact is murder, police violence, sexual assault, torture, and illegal detention all masquerading under the guise of CT </span>**</span>__

__<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">McCulloch 01. </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Jude, Professor of Law, Commerce and Criminology @ Monash U and author of //C//ounter-terrorism Policing, </span></span>__Blue Army__//,// pg. 12)__
__<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in;">The struggle over defining terrorism… otherwise be rejected by many.’42 </span>__

__<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Our alternative is to reject the affirmative’s methodological reliance on the state and “problem solving” in favor of a critical analysis of COIN. </span>**</span>__

__<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Brown ’10. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Katherine E., PhD with the Defence Studies Department @ King’s College London, “From Bandits to Post-Modern Insurgents”, August 16th, PDF retrieved from Google) </span></span>__

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">This leads to the third point … </span>__state centrism and methodological homogeneity.

__<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**DEBT CEILING RAISING GOOD POLITICS** (current as of 2/24/11 - read from MBA through Stanford)</span>__

__**1. The GOP is on board with Boehner in raising the debt ceiling now – he needs to keep them in line for passage**__
__**IBT 1-4**. (“Can Boehner lead in debt ceiling challenge?”, International Business Times, 2011, http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/97434/20110104/debt-government-republicans.htm)__
__<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in;">What will happen and what … </span>__to borrow money__, Marshall said.__

__**2. link varies round to round**__

__**3. Political capital key to passage – crucial first test for Obama**__
__**Examiner 1/2**__
__(Kenneth Schortgen Jr [finance examiner], “Both Congress and the President begin the battle over the debt ceiling,” 2011, http://www.examiner.com/finance-examiner-in-national/both-congress-and-the-president-begin-the-battle-on-the-debt-ceiling)__
__In an article today … in this 'game of chicken'?__

__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">4. Failure to raise the debt ceiling would cause an unparalleled depression </span>**__
__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Joyella 1-4. </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Mark, journalist for //Mediaite//, “Lawrence O’Donnell: Most In Tea Party “Didn’t Know There Was A Debt Ceiling” Until I Told Them”, 2011, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.mediaite.com/tv/msnbcs-lawrence-odonnell-says-most-in-tea-party-didnt-know-there-was-a-debt-ceiling-until-he-told-them/]]</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">) </span>__

Not raising the debt ceiling… White House is really worried.” 



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**5. And, worldwide economic collapse causes global nuclear war.**</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Mead**, Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2/4/**2009** (Walter Russell, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2) </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The damage to China's …may __still__ have to fight__.__</span>

__**SECURITY K 1NC**__

__A. The 1ac is grounded in an orientalist discourse of middle eastern security defined according to U.S. imperial interests.__
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pinar </span>__**<span style="text-underline: thick;">Bilgin</span>**__, @ Bilkent Univ,__ **<span style="text-underline: thick;">‘4</span>** __[//International Relations// 18.1, “Whose ‘Middle East’? Geopolitical Inventions and Practices of Security,” p. 28]__
__What I call__ <span style="text-underline: thick;">the ‘Middle … treachery and imprisoned</span> __at worst.__


__B. Orientalist forms of security guarantee genocidal conflicts -- their perspective consolidates the racist hierarchies responsible for global exploitation.__
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pinar </span>__**<span style="text-underline: thick;">Batur</span>**__, PhD @ UT-Austin – Prof. of Scociology @ Vassar,__ **<span style="text-underline: thick;">‘7 </span>**__[“The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide,” in //Handbook of the The Soiology of Racial and Ethnic Relations//, eds. Vera and Feagin, p. 446-7]__
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">At the turn of the … up with genocide, in Darfur. </span>__

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C. Rejecting their demand for immediate yes/no policy response is the only way to raise critical ethical questions about the discourse and practice of ir in the middle east. </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Shampa </span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">BISWAS</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Politics @ Whitman </span>__**<span style="text-underline: thick;">‘7</span>** __“Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist” //Millennium// 36 (1) p. 117-125__ 
__The recent resuscitation of the … senses of the vocation.21__

__**ETHICS K (Stanford octas)**__

__**1. Critical approaches to the state reinforce a universalizing ethics of the international – this reifies affirmative harms and fails to disrupt the totalization of current ethics.**__ 
__**Franke 2k**__ 
__(Mark F.N. [Associate Professor and Director of the Centre for Global Studies at Huron University College and is a core graduate faculty member in The Centre for the Study of Theory and Criticism at the University of Western Ontario, PhD in polisci from JHU], “Refusing an Ethical Approach to World Politics in Favour of Political Ethics,” European Journal of International Relations 2000 6: 307, SAGE Publishing, http://ejt.sagepub.com/content/6/3/307)__
__As I first recount,__ the …  **is presumed to be defined.** 

[[#_Toc159264749]] [[#_Toc158845232]][[#_Toc158847848]]
[[#_Toc158845233]][[#_Toc158847849]][[#_Toc159264750]]
__David Chandler ( Research Fellow at the Policy Research Institute) 2001 “ The Road to Military Humanitarianism: How the Human Rights NGOs Shaped A New Humanitarian Agenda” Human Rights Quarterly 23.3 muse)__
__<span style="margin-left: 0in;">During the 1990s, </span>__humanitarian aid … __benefit of 20:20 future vision." 96__ 

__**3. Our alternative – David and I reject the affirmative’s advocacy to embrace rejection of the military presence of the United States federal government absent ethical claims. This creates unceasing political questioning and negotiation that dismantles the ethical within politics and creates an open political sphere which checks totalitarianism.**__ 
__**Franke 2k**__ 
__(Mark F.N. [Associate Professor and Director of the Centre for Global Studies at Huron University College and is a core graduate faculty member in The Centre for the Study of Theory and Criticism at the University of Western Ontario, PhD in polisci from JHU], “Refusing an Ethical Approach to World Politics in Favour of Political Ethics,” European Journal of International Relations 2000 6: 307, SAGE Publishing, http://ejt.sagepub.com/content/6/3/307)__
__To turn the validity of …__ made thinkable from the start. 

__**4. This differential enframing changes ethics – rejecting the couching of political and human relations in terms of ethics is the only way to disrupt normative politics that trigger their harms – means it’s try or die for the alternative.**__ 
__**Franke 2k**__ 
__(Mark F.N. [Associate Professor and Director of the Centre for Global Studies at Huron University College and is a core graduate faculty member in The Centre for the Study of Theory and Criticism at the University of Western Ontario, PhD in polisci from JHU], “Refusing an Ethical Approach to World Politics in Favour of Political Ethics,” European Journal of International Relations 2000 6: 307, SAGE Publishing, http://ejt.sagepub.com/content/6/3/307)__
If critical inquiries into international … __sense for humans so understood.__

__**5. Turns case – focus on the ethics of internal relations trades off with domestic initiatives, causing totalitarianism and oppression on the domestic front.**__ 
__**Chandler 3**__ 
__(David [Research Fellow at the Policy Research Institute, Leeds Metropolitan University, United Kingdom], “Rhetoric without responsibility: the attraction of ‘ethical’ foreign policy,” British Journal of Politics and International Relations, Vol. 5, No. 3, August 2003, pp. 295–316)__
__The__ search for ethical__ or … <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is in domestic policy. </span>






<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>