=Affirmative= 
[[toc]]
Contention one: Inherency

**The United States continues and will continue to maintain a substantial “Enduring” network of bases in Afghanistan and Iraq**
Nick <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turse</span></span> Fellow of cold war studies at NYU and //<span style="font-style: normal;">winner of the Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction</span>// February 9, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span> [[http://www.truth-out.org/the-700-military-bases-afghanistan-black-sites-empire-bases56789]], Origionally posted on TomDispatch.com 

The count also does not include any sites <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">…… ever-shifting British-Soviet-U.S./Afghan site at Shinwar.</span></span>


**Bases in Iraq continue to expand to constitute an ‘enduring presence’ in the region after 2011**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Soohen 10</span></span> (Jacques, independent journalist, Democracy Now, September 1, http://www.democracynow.org/2010/9/1/withdrawal_or_enduring_presence_us_military)

**JACQUIE SOOHEN:** The current Status of Forces Agreement ... they are building here. 



**Huge construction projects prove the number of enduring American bases on afghani soil is only set to skyrocket- we’re not leaving anytime soon**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">PINCUS 10</span></span> (Walter, Washington Post, August 23, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/08/22/AR2010082201670.html)

Three $100 million air base expansions ……... U.S. forces rather than by their Afghan counterparts.





**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Thus, the plan: </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The United States federal government should ban and dismantle the United States federal government’s “enduring” and “permanent” bases in Iraq and Afghanistan. </span>**



**Contention 2 is Harms:**

**Bases function as a colonial imposition of American suburbia upon the geography and culture of the “host” country.**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">DALBY 08</span></span><span style="color: #231f20;"> (Simon, Department of Geography, Carleton U., Geopolitics vol. 13 p.</span>425)

Simply looking at where American troops ……… impressive than the actual number of troops present. 


**Unlike Colonial networks in the past, which relied on military bases to obtain and control colonies, the American military base is also a colony in and of itself.**
<span class="submittedmeta">Hugh </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gusterson</span></span><span class="submittedmeta"> 10 March 20</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span><span class="submittedmeta"> ‘ empire of bases’ </span>Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, 
http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/columnists/hugh-gusterson/empire-of-bases

According to <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the Pentagon's</span></span> own list ……… <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> holdover from the Cold War</span></span>."


**Bases In Afghanistan and Iraq are cultural one way mirrors- they project dependency on American capitalism and culture while leaving soldiers only able to see the reflection of their preexisting American lifestyle**
<span class="submittedmeta">Hugh </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gusterson</span></span><span class="submittedmeta"> 10 March 20</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span><span class="submittedmeta"> ‘ empire of bases’ </span>Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, 
http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/columnists/hugh-gusterson/empire-of-bases
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">American leaders speak of foreign </span></span>……… <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">soldiers and have a stake in their staying. </span></span>


**Colonialism is genocidal and results in extinction** 
Robert <span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Porter</span></span>, associate professor of <span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">law</span></span> and Director of the Tribal Law and Government Center <span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">at</span></span> the University of <span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Kansas</span></span>, Chief Justice, Supreme Court of the Sac & Fox Nation of Kansas and Missouri, Member (Heron Clan) and former Attorney General of the Seneca Nation of Indians, Summer 19<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">98</span></span>, University of Michigan Journal of Law Reform, 31 U. Mich. J.L. Ref. 899, p. 953-4

I do not mean to suggest that Indigenous people would not have changed ……… colonization will disrupt and destroy the natural evolutionary process of the people being colonized to the point of extinction.



**Heres why- Colonial presence renders colonized persons disposable- the rapeability and killablity bases inscribe upon locals make violence and extermination inevitable**
Maldonado-Torres 08 <span style="font-weight: normal;">(Nelson, assoc. prof Ethnic Studies at UC Berkeley, Against War: Views from the Underside of Modernity, p. 216-221)</span>


<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Hellish existence in the colonial world carries with it </span></span>……… <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">ontology collapses into a Manicheanism</span></span>**,** as Fanon suggested.




**This imperialism constitutes an ‘empire of liberty’ that will always result in domination of the other and precludes genuinely couner-hegemonic thought.**
Bogues 06
(Anthony, chair of Africa Studies at Brown, “Imagination, Politics, and Utopia: Confronting the Present.” Boundary2 33:3, 153-6.)
What I suggest is that in our moment, one aspect ……… it has to trap both the imagination and desire.






**Military bases are Always both a cause and an effect of war constituting a recursive and self servicing global colonial administration**

Catherine <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lutz</span></span> is a professor at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University, July 30 <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span></span>, “Obama’s Enpire” New Statesman http://www.newstatesman.com/asia/2009/07/military-bases-world-war-iraq

<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The global expansion of US bases </span></span>……… had returned to 1947 levels.



**New Missions Will Develop In Iraq And Afghanistan To Uphold The Bases**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Monthly Review 02</span></span> (The Editors of Monthly Review, March 2002, “U.S. Military Bases and Empire”, http://www.monthlyreview.org/0302editr.htm) 
Like all empires ……… <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> the protection of U.S. interests abroad</span></span>.




**Bases fuel radicalism and are useless when contributing to peacekeeping and other military missions, precluding any chance of Peace in the Middle East**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">BOWMAN 08</span></span> (Bradley, Council on Foreign Relations international affairs fellow for 2007–2008 and former assistant professor at the United States Military Academy at West Point, Washington Quarterly, Spr p.81-2) 

Despite the U.S. military presence’s dramatic growth ……… would threaten an oil-producing ally. 






**Contention 5 is solvency:**

**Far from being an amorphous discursive entity, American colonialism is a policy question of where we do and do not have bases- the physical nature of our imposition makes a policy response to the issue key.**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 12.0pt;">Wilbert van der </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zeijden</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 12.0pt;"> March 20</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 12.0pt;"> “Outposts of Empire: Introduction” http://www.tni.org/archives/act/16366 </span>

A few years ago, <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it was briefly fashionable</span> </span>……… to be able to fight proxy wars in Asia, Latin America and Africa. 



**We can’t understand systems of oppression without reconceptualizing America’s Bases as propping up global colonial empire.**

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson 04</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 12.0pt;"> [ Chalmers, “America’s Empire of Bases” origionally Published on January 15, 2004 by TomDispatch.com, http://www.commondreams.org/views04/0115-08.htm] </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 12.0pt;">As distinct from other peoples, </span>……… <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">militarism is undermining our constitutional order.</span> </span>




=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]