=January-February= 
[[toc]]
You probably don't know me because I don't debate much on the national circuit, nor am I coached nor have I been to camp. Subsequently, I have never felt the need to disclose citations on the wiki. However, with the recent passing of [[judgephilosophies:Paine, Louis|Louis Paine]], a judge and former debater in LD/CX for Stoneman Douglas High School, I have felt compelled to disclose the first and last Kritik I will write. This was run at the Harvard Invitational (Round 2, Triple-Octos). To clarify, I did not know Louis personally; this is in memory of his brilliant mind and my friends he has affected. I apologize for mistakes in the text of the cards as a couple were hand typed.

Credit goes to Jake Nebel for (unintentionally) introducing me to:
1) How to run a K through his Bronx Finals round with Paul Tyger
2) How to write a K through his own
3) Alain Badiou
and Zach Aberman (Stoneman Douglas) for his feedback and criticism in lieu of an actual coach.
==Negative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Badiou is About to Bring the Paine K </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**Introduction**__</span>

THE AFFIRMATIVE ENTRENCHES A DESTRUCTIVE MINDSET BY DISCERNING A UNIVERSAL EVIL AND DERIVING FROM IT THE SUBORDINATE GOOD. ALAIN BADIOU 1,
Badiou, Alain. //Ethics: An Essay On The Understanding of Evil//. London: Verso, 2001. Print.

Were I to reverse the tables, as you suggest, I would leave everything in place. To say that liberal capitalism is Evil would not change anything. I would still be subordinating politics to humanistic and Christian morality: I would say: "Let's fight against Evil." But I've had enough of "fighting against," of "deconstructing," of "surpassing," of "putting an end to," etc. My philosophy desires affirmation. I want to fight for; I want to know what I have for the Good and to put it to work. I refuse to be content with the "least evil." It is very fashionable right now to be modest, not to think big. Grandeur is considered a metaphysical evil. Me, I am for grandeur, I am for heroism. I am for the affirmation of the thought and the deed. 

__**Section One - LINKS**__

1. CJS/Liberal Humanism. PETER HALLWARD,
Hallward, Peter. "Badiou's Project." Introduction. Trans. Peter Hallward. Ethics: An Essay On The Understanding of Evil. By Alain Badiou.
London: Verso, 2001. Print.

The polemic thrust of the book’s opening chapter follows as an equally logical consequence, for the recent liberal-humanist recourse to ethics – what Badiou calls out ‘ethical ideology’ – presumes the opposite derivation: first the assumption of an a priori evil (totalitarianism, violence, suffering), then the imposition of an essentially defensive ethics, a ‘respect’ for negative liberties and ‘human rights’. ‘Ethics’ here simply means protection from abusive interference. It amounts to an intellectual justification of the status quo. Operating exclusively in the realm of consensus, of the ‘self-evident’, ethics is intrinsically conservative. 

2. Law. BADIOU 2,

What essentially is retained from Kant (or from an image of Kant, or better still, from theorists of ‘natural law’) is the idea that there exists formally representable imperative demands that are to be subjected to neither empirical considerations nor to the examination of situations; that these imperatives apply to cases of offence, crime, and Evil; that these imperatives must be punished by national and international law; that, as a result governments are obliged to include them in their legislation and to accept the full legal range of their implications; that if they do not, we are justified in forcing their compliance (the right to humanitarian interference, or to legal interference). Ethics is conceived of here both as an a priori ability to discern Evil (for according to the modern usage of ethics, Evil – or the negative – is primary: we presume a consensus regarding what is barbarian), and as the ultimate principle of judgment, in particular political judgment: good is what intervenes visibly against an Evil that is identifiable a priori. Law [droit] itself is first of all law ‘against’ Evil. If ‘the rule of law’ [Etat de droit] is obligatory, that is because it alone authorizes a space for the identification of Evil (this is the ‘freedom of opinion’ which, in the ethical vision, is first and foremost the freedom to designate Evil) and provides a means of arbitration when the issue is not clear (the apparatus of judicial precautions). 

3. Proportionality

4. Due Process/Judicial Checks

5. Practical Reasoning. KORSGAARD,
Korsgaard, Christine M. "Two Distinctions in Goodness." //The Philosophical Review// (1983). Online.

In order for there to be any objectively good ends, however, there must be something that is unconditionally good and so can serve as a sufficient condition of their goodness. Kant considers what this might be: it cannot be an object of inclination, for those have only a conditional worth, "for if the inclinations and the needs founded on them did not exist, their object would be without worth" (G 46/428). It cannot be the inclinations themselves because a rational being would rather be free of them. Nor can it be external things, which serve only as means. So, Kant asserts, the unconditionally valuable thing must be "humanity" or "rational nature," which he defined as the capacity to set an end.

6. Permissibility/Presumption/Act-Omission Distinction. BADIOU 3, 
Badiou, Alain, Christopher Cox, and Molly Whalen. "On Evil: An Interview with Alain Badiou." //Cabinet Magazine// Winter 2001/02. //The European Graduate School//. Web. <http://www.egs.edu/faculty/alain-badiou/articles/on-evil/>.

//(Note: I really wish I had gotten to use this link against the intellectually void way these arguments are currently being used on the circuit. This isn't to bash those who do use them - if you do LD to win rounds, that's cool too - but rather point out that more substantive debate is a lot more fun and educational)//

Today we see liberal capitalism and its political system, parlimentarianism, as the only natural and acceptable solutions. Every revolutionary idea is considered utopian and ultimately criminal. We are made to believe that the global spread of capitalism and what gets called "democracy" is the dream of all humanity. And also that the whole world wants the authority of the American Empire, and its military police, NATO. In truth, our leaders and propagandists know very well that liberal capitalism is an inegalitarian regime, unjust, and unacceptable for the vast majority of humanity. And they know too that our "democracy" is an illusion: Where is the power of the people? Where is the political power for third world peasants, the European working class, the poor everywhere? We live in a contradiction: a brutal state of affairs, profoundly inegalitarian—where all existence is evaluated in terms of money alone—is presented to us as ideal. To justify their conservatism, the partisans of the established order cannot really call it ideal or wonderful. So instead, they have decided to say that all the rest is horrible. Sure, they say, we may not live in a condition of perfect Goodness. But we're lucky that we don't live in a condition of Evil. Our democracy is not perfect. But it's better than the bloody dictatorships. Capitalism is unjust. But it's not criminal like Stalinism. We let millions of Africans die of AIDS, but we don't make racist nationalist declarations like Milosevic. We kill Iraqis with our airplanes, but we don't cut their throats with machetes like they do in Rwanda, etc. That's why the idea of Evil has become essential. It's there that the consensus concerning Evil is decisive. Under the pretext of not accepting Evil, we end up making believe that we have, if not the Good, at least the best possible state of affairs—even if this best is not so great.

__**Section Two - IMPACTS**__

1. The Affirmative categorizes humans as victimized animals deprived of the bare necessities for living. BADIOU 4, 

The heart of the question concerns the presumption of a universal human Subject, capable of reducing ethical issues to matters of human rights and humanitarian actions. We have seen that ethics subordinates the identification of this subject to the universal recognition of the evil that is done to him. Ethics thus defines man as a victim. It will be objected: ‘No! You are forgetting the active subject, the one that intervenes against barbarism!’ So let us be precise: man is the being who is capable of recognizing himself as a victim. It is this definition that we must proclaim unacceptable —for three reasons in particular: 1. In the first place, because the status of victim, of suffering beast, of emaciated, dying body, equates man with his animal substructure, it reduces him to the level of a living organism pure and simple (life being, as Bichat says, nothing other than ‘the set of functions that resist death’).[...] If we do not set out from this point (which can be summarized, very simply, as the assertion that Man thinks that man is a tissue of truths), if we equate Man with the simple reality of his living being, we are inevitably pushed to a conclusion quite opposite to the one that the principle of life seems to imply. 

2. The discourse of a universal moral truth presents a bankrupt philosophy of static moralism, disrupting Man's capacity to imagine the Good. BADIOU 5,

In the second place, because if the ethical ‘consensus’ is founded on the recognition of Evil, it follows that every effort to unite people around a positive idea of the Good, let alone identify Man with projects of this kind, becomes in fact the real source of evil itself. Such is the accusation so often repeated over the last fifteen years: every revolutionary project stigmatized as ‘utopian’ terns, we are told, into a totalitarian nightmare. Every will to inscribe an idea of justice or equality turns bad. Every collective will to the Good creates Evil. This is sophistry at its most devastating. For if our only agenda is an ethical engagement against an Evil we recognize a priori, how are we to envisage any transformation of the way things are? From what source will man draw the strength to be the immortal that he is? What shall be the destiny of thought, since we know very well that it must be affirmative invention or nothing at all? In reality, the price paid by ethics is a stodgy conservatism. […] The very idea of a consensual ‘ethics’, stemming from the general feeling provoked by the sight of atrocities, which replaces the ‘old ideological divisions’, is a powerful contributor to subjective resignation and acceptance of the status quo. For what every emancipatory project does, what every emergence of hitherto unknown possibilities does, is to put an end to consensus. How, indeed, could the incalculable novelty of a truth, and the hole that it bores in established knowledge, be inscribed in a situation without encountering resolute opposition? Precisely because a truth, in its invention, is the only thing that is for all, so it can actually be achieved only against dominant opinions, since these always work for the benefit of some rather than all. These privileged few certainly benefit from their position, their capital, their control of the media, and so on. But in particular, they wield the inert power of reality and time against that which is only, like every truth, the hazardous, precarious advent of a possibility of the Intemporal. As Mao Tse-tung used to say, with his customary simplicity: ‘If you have an idea, one will have to split into two.’ Yet ethics explicitly presents itself as the spiritual supplement of the consensus. The ‘splitting into two’ horrifies it (it smacks of ideology, it’s passé …). Ethics is thus part of what prohibits any idea, any coherent project of thought, settling instead for overlaying unthought and anonymous situations with mere humanitarian prattle (which, as we have said, does not itself contain any positive idea of humanity). And in the same way, the ‘concern for the other’ signifies that it is not a matter – that it is never a matter – of prescribing hitherto unexplored possibilities for our situation, and ultimately for ourselves. The Law (human rights, etc.) is always already there. It regulates judgments and opinions concerning the evil that happens in some variable elsewhere. But there is no question of reconsidering the foundation of this ‘Law’, of going right back to the conservative identity that sustains it.

The universalization of ethics as a tenet of a static moral code allows the actor to hide behind his duty and use it as an excuse for his actions, perpetuating the status quo. ALENKA ZUPANCIC 1,
Zupancic, Alenka. //Ethics of the Real: Kant, Lacan//. London: Verso, 2000. Print.

In order to illustrate this, let us take an example suggested by Allison. Suppose I have a violent dislike for someone, and have come into possession of a piece of information about him, which I know will cause him great pain if he learns of it. With the intent of causing him pain, I decide to inform him of the matter but justify this action to myself on the grounds of his a priori right to know. Accordingly, rather than admitting that this is a vicious act of inflicting unnecessary pain on another, I present it to myself (and perhaps to others) as a laudable act of truth-telling. I might even convince myself that it is my sacred duty. Allison takes this example to illustrate what he calls the ‘self-deception’ by means of which we are able to ignore ‘the morally salient factor(s) of a situation. We will take this example, however, as an illustration of something else: the perverse attitude which consists in presenting our duty as an excuse for our actions. What is more, we are dealing here with a case of double ‘self-deception.’ The first moment of self-deception is the one pointed out by Allison: we deceive ourselves as to our actual intention, which is to hurt another. But this self-deception is possible only on the basis of another, more fundamental moment of self-deception. It is possible only in so far as we take (the ‘content’ of) our duty to be ‘ready-made’, pre-existing our involvement in the situation.

This is further entrenched by codification of universal rights in legal doctrines. COSTAS DOUZINAS, 
Douzinas, Costas, Birbeck College, University of London. Humanism, military humanism, and the new moral order. Economy and Society Vol. 32 No. 2, May 2003: 159-183.

What are the stakes between the debate? Postmodern mass societies and globalization increase existential anxiety and create unprecedented insecurity about life prospects. In this climate, the desire for simple life instructions and legal and moral codes with clearly deﬁned rights and duties becomes paramount. Codiﬁcation transfers the responsibility of deciding ethically to legislators and moralists, to false sovereigns and fake tribes. In our over-legalized world, rules and norms discourage people from thinking independently and discovering their own relation to themselves, others, language and history. The proliferation of human rights treaties and the mushrooming of legal regulation are part of the same process, which aims to relieve the burden of ethical life and the anxiety or, in Heidegger’s terms, the “homelessness” of postmodern humanity. International human rights law promises to set all that is valuably human on paper and hold it before us in triumph. The world picture of humanity will have been ﬁnally drawn and everyone would be free to follow their essence as deﬁned by world governments.

3. The preconception of a universal Evil prevents us from looking at each context as distinctive and realizing the necessity to reevaluate every situation as unique and separate because it overcodes our reasoning with preordained decisions. BADIOU 6,

I must, of course, specify that I am absolutely opposed to these two conceptions. I maintain that the natural state of the human animal has nothing to do with Good or Evil. And I maintain that the kind of formal moral obligation described in Kant's categorical imperative does not actually exist. Take the example of torture. In a civilization as sophisticated as the Roman Empire, not only is torture not considered an Evil, it is actually appreciated as a spectacle. In arenas, people are devoured by tigers; they are burned alive; the audience rejoices to see combatants cut each other's throats. How, then, could we think that torture is Evil for every human animal? Aren't we the same animal as Sencea or Marcus Aurelius? I should add that the armed forces of my country, France, with the approval of the governments of the era and the majority of public opinion, tortured all the prisoners during the Algerian War. The refusal of torture is a historical and cultural phenomenon, not at all a natural one. In a general way, the human animal knows cruelty as well as it knows pity; the one is just as natural as the other, and neither one has anything to do with Good or Evil. One knows of crucial situations where cruelty is necessary and useful, and of other situations where pity is nothing but a form of contempt for others. You won't find anything in the structure of the human animal on which to base the concept of Evil, nor, moreover, that of the Good. But the formal solution isn't any better. Indeed, the obligation to be a subject doesn't have any meaning, for the following reason: The possibility of becoming a subject does not depend on us, but on that which occurs in circumstances that are always singular. The distinction between Good and Evil already [pre]supposes a subject, and thus can't apply to it. It's always for a subject, not a pre-subjectivized human animal, that Evil is possible. For example, if, during the occupation of France by the Nazis, I join the Resistance, I become a subject of History in the making. From the inside of this subjectivization, I can tell what is Evil (to betray my comrades, to collaborate with the Nazis, etc.). I can also decide what is Good outside of the habitual norms. Thus the writer Marguerite Duras has recounted how, for reasons tied to the resistance to the Nazis, she participated in acts of torture against traitors. The whole distinction between Good and Evil arises from inside a becoming-subject, and varies with this becoming (which I myself call philosophy, the becoming of a Truth). To summarize: There is no natural definition of Evil; Evil is always that which, in a particular situation, tends to weaken or destroy a subject. And the conception of Evil is thus entirely dependent on the events from which a subject constitutes itself. It is the subject who prescribes what Evil is, not a natural idea of Evil that defines what a "moral" subject is. There is also no formal imperative from which to define Evil, even negatively. In fact, all imperatives presume that the subject of the imperative is already constituted, and in specific circumstances. And thus there can be no imperative to become a subject, except as an absolutely vacuous statement. That is also why there is no general form of Evil, because Evil does not exist except as a judgment made, by a subject, on a situation, and on the consequences of his own actions in this situation. So the same act (to kill, for example) may be Evil in a certain subjective context, and a necessity of the Good in another.

The Affirmative mindset destroys the ethical subject and prevents us from being faithful to our actual obligations and the truths embedded within each situation because we analyze the Event in terms of our fixed conceptions of Evil. BADIOU 7,

Finally, thanks to its negatives and a priori determination of Evil, ethics prevents itself from actualizing the singularity of situations as such, which is the obligatory starting point for all properly human action. ‘Ethical commissions’ and other ruminations on ‘healthcare expenses’ or ‘managerial responsibility’, since they are radically exterior to the one situation that is genuinely medical,can in reality only prevent us from being faithful to it. For to be faithful to this situation means: treating it right to the limit of the possible. Or, if you prefer: drawing from this situation, to the greatest possible extent, the affirmative humanity that it contains. Or again: trying to be the immortal of this situation. 

__**Section Three - ALTERNATIVE**__

The alternative is a reconceptualization of ethics as truly situational, where humans play a dynamic and constantly fluid role in the construction and application of morality. ZUPANCIC 2, 

The crucial problem of the moral law is not the variability of the situations to which we ‘apply’ it, but the place or role of the subject in its very constitution, and thus in the constitution of the universal. The reason why subjects cannot be effaced from the ‘structure’ of the ethical (by means of making a list of duties which would absolve the subject of his responsibility and freedom) is not the particular, the singular, or the specific, but the universal. That which can in no way be reduced without abolishing ethics as such is not the multicouloured variability of every given situation, but the gesture by which every subject, by the means of his action, posits the universal, performs a certain operation of universalization. The ethical subject is not an agent of the universal, he does not act in the name of the universal or with its authorization – if this were the case the subject would be an unnecessary, dispensable ‘element’ of ethics. The subject is not the agent of the universal, but its agens. This does not mean simply that the universal is always ‘subjectively mediated’, that the Law is always ‘subjective’ (partial, selective, or prejudicial); it does not point towards a specific definition of the universal but, rather, towards a definition of the subject: it means that the subject is nothing other than this moment of universalization, of the constitution or determination of the Law. The ethical subject is not a subject who brings all his subjective baggage to a given (moral) situation and allows it to affect things (i.e. by formulating a maxim which corresponds to his personal inclinations), but a subject who is, strictly speaking, born of this situation, who only emerges from it. 

We must obliterate legal scriptures to emancipate us from the shackles of what law identifies to be a universal Evil. LOUIS PAINE 1,
Paine, Louis. "Justice--rules Governing Social Interaction, Card It." Facebook. 30 Nov. 2010. Web. 12 Jan. 2011. <http://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=465793144619>. //(Note: Full text provided at the end)//

The alternative to criminal justice within the status quo ought to be a literal “destruction” of the “law” in written texts, admitting the insufficient justice inherent to the “law” as a written set of norms, that approaches objective appropriation of punishment according to some socially constructed (subjective) standard of “exchange and equivalency”. We need to burn all legal texts, since if they are already written, one would automatically presume that there would be people who violate the law. The presumptive “guilt” inherent to “textual law” might even explain[s] the inability to have a consensus on causal explanations for why people break the law, i.e., that the “law” is already written and applies itself contingently to the experience of those who enforce and violate it, but universally, in that we all submit to the “law” regardless if we want to or not. I propose that we stop “writing the law” and “speak it”, rather than expecting police officers to inform us of our rights (ironically, off of a piece of paper in most circumstances); all citizens must “affirm their rights as inviolable”. 

By removing the crutch of legal texts that make a priori conclusions about the Evil done to us and our subsequent Good, citizens are pushed towards becoming a metaphorical Immortal whose rights and good are self-affirmed through an a posteriori utterance of justice. PAINE 2, 

Perhaps the solution is no longer to “constantly rethink” in the Focaultian sense of the term, constantly questioning semio-techniques or biopoltics but to “selectively enunciate” what is just or unjust not as a universal utterance, but as a radically contingent event. Embracing the contextual experiences of horror such as robbery, rape, or homicide that actually led to the construction of laws is only possible by an immediate “utterance of protest”. The oral obligation would not fall on police officers, parole workers, prosecutors, the media, or legislators, because they would be unnecessary if everyone learned to must “speak justice” as an event that only arises when there is a violation rather than to “interpret it” retrospectively as a correction to an seemingly infinite list of presumed violations.

This immediate self-affirmation reveals Man to be more than a victim of his situation. BADIOU 8, 

This is where we are to find Man, if we are determined to think him [le penser]: in what ensures, as Varlam Shalamov puts in his Stories of Life in the Camps, that we are dealing with an animal whose resistance, unlike that of a horse, lies not in his fragile body but in his stubborn determination to remain what he is — that is to say, precisely something other than a victim, other than a being-for-death, and thus: something other than a mortal being. An immortal: this is what the worst situations that can be inflicted upon Man show him to be, in so far as he distinguishes himself within the varied and rapacious flux of life. In order to think any aspect of Man, we must begin from this principle. So if ‘rights of man’ exist, they are surely not rights of life against death, or rights of survival against misery. They are the rights of the Immortal, affirmed in their own right, or the rights of the Infinite, exercised over the contingency of suffering and death. The fact that in the end we all die, that only dust remains, in no way alters Man’s identity as immortal at the instant in which he affirms himself as someone who runs counter to the temptation of wanting-to-be-an-animal to which circumstances may expose him. And we know that every human being is capable of being this immortal — unpredictably, be it in circumstances great or small, for truths important or secondary. In each case, subjectivation is immortal, and makes Man. Beyond this there is only a biological species, a ‘biped without feathers’, whose charms are not obvious.

It is through the utterance of justice as a unique event that we can discover the Good, contextually embedded within each individual situation rather than existing as an a priori moral truth. While the Affirmative ideology conceives of Man as a passive and fragile victim to be protected, situational ethics presumes that every individual can be active and immortal within each situation.


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Full text of Louis Paine</span>=== 

The problem of criminality has plagued humanity since before the invention of writing. Some anthropologists and philosophers suggest that the construction of law—an explicitly codified structure of norms concerning social interaction, highlighting moral boundaries, delineating the “allowable and the illicit”—may have inspired the first permanent lithographic texts, such as religious manuscripts written in Sanskrit that influenced the Indus Valley Civilization, or the Cuneiform writing system in Sumeria; adapted later on to “communicate” Hammurabi’s infamous “code”—law as “eye for an eye, tooth for tooth”.
Thousands of years later, sociologists, philosophers, and anthropologists, theologians, and criminologists still question, “why do criminals offend?” or “what “factors”(structural, cultural, racial, economic, etc.) cause people to keep offending? Within the status quo, there are multiple material and psychological factors that prisoners face because of going to prison that cause them to reoffend. Some examples of the issues the prisoners are reported to face as a result of being incarcerated are: denial of adequate health care—prolonged by inability to get it once out of jail because of diseases prisoners catch in jail. Not to mention the platitudes of psychological abuse, physical abuse, neglect, mistreatment, endemic unemployment resultant from permanent statuses offenses (felonies), and all of the other things “law abiding” citizens politely assume in their every day lives that, “those who go to jail get what they deserve” (N.R.R, 4). For example, in the United States, most felons carry the label and stigma of a felony for the rest of their lives. Former inmates, who already have a diminished social position, are more likely to suffer from chronic “… unemployment, poverty, and marital instability—some of the best-known risk factors for poor health …The status of “ex-con” is highly devalued and leads to … high rates of discrimination” (N.R.R., 4). Pertinent health factors associated with discrimination include increasing amounts of stress, higher levels of depression—even “anxiety and blood pressure” (N. R.R., 4). Simultaneously, the psychological consequences of discrimination disproportionately affect “those who feel they have no way to redress their mistreatment” (N.R.R.,4). It is a well-known fact that discrimination based on one’s legal record is state sanctioned and even required. One ominous epiphenomena that society ignores are the nefarious effects resultant from prisoner release of parents back to their families—many children of inmates report “symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder, including hypervigilance, anxiety, and even flashbacks of their parent’s arrest”. The separation of children from parents is also psychologically defined as traumatic, for both parents and children. Evidence goes to far to suggest that these issues are exacerbated for female law violators because of their unequal, imposed social burdens to perform as “caregivers” for children (N.R.R,4).
It seems as if injustice is always present because people are content to presume that justice exists already, that because there is a “written law”, it is effective or it can be changed to adapt to certain circumstances. But what if that “adaptability” of the law that we rely on so much, the idea that law is a reflexive text that can be interpreted in different ways such that it can be infinitely corrected (//i.e. the “idea” of corrections systems???)// is actually the never-ending wound of injustice, constantly needing treatment, rehabilitation, control, and //correction//? This would seem to indicate that justice through “codified, written law” is impossible.
The alternative to criminal justice within the status quo ought to be a literal “destruction” of the “law” in written texts, admitting the **//insufficient justice//** inherent to the “law” as a written set of norms, that approaches objective appropriation of punishment according to some socially constructed (subjective) standard of “exchange and equivalency”.
We need to burn all legal texts, since if they are already written, one would automatically presume that there would be people who violate the law. The presumptive “guilt” inherent to “textual law” might even explain the inability to have a consensus on causal explanations for why people break the law, i.e., that the “law” is already written and applies itself contingently to the experience of those who enforce and violate it, but universally, in that we all submit to the “law” regardless if we want to or not. I propose that we stop “writing the law” and “speak it”, rather than expecting police officers to inform us of our rights (ironically, off of a piece of paper in most circumstances), all citizens must “affirm their rights as inviolable”. 
The “law as written text” creates a language implicitly denying access to following it—most people are not accustomed to the specific parameters of juridical and civil codes to the extent they can interpret it in the same way a Harvard trained lawyer, turned prosecutor, turned judge interprets it. Perhaps the solution is no longer to “ constantly rethink” in the Focaultian sense of the term, constantly questioning semio-techniques or biopoltics but to “selectively enunciate” what is just or unjust not as a universal utterance, but as a radically contingent event. Embracing the contextual experiences of horror such as robbery, rape, or homicide that actually led to the construction of laws is only possible by an immediate “utterance of protest”. The oral obligation would not fall on police officers, parole workers, prosecutors, the media, or legislators, because they would be unnecessary if everyone learned to “speak justice” as an event that only arises when there is a violation rather than to “interpret it” retrospectively as a correction to an seemingly infinite list of presumed violations.


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Harvard-Westlake and Miscutting Cards</span>=== 

I feel compelled to point out an "ethical gray area" in their card cutting. They resorted to using Badiou's strawman to warrant the claim "the Holocaust is a universal Evil," even at the prestigious TOC. If anyone cares, here is the full text of their miscut: (Note: This will also help you better understand the K)

Although the idea of a radical Evil can be traced back at II least as far as Kant, its contemporary version is grounded systematically on one 'example': the Nazi extermination of the European Jews. I do not use the word 'example' lightly. An ordinary example is indeed something to be repeated or imitated. Relating to the Nazi extermination, it exemplifies radical Evil by pointing tothatwhoseimitation orrepetition must be preventedat allcosts - or, more precisely: whose non-repetition provide the norm for judgement of all situations. Hence the 'exemplarity' of the crime, its negative exemplarity. But the normative function and in this sense transcendent, or unsayable - measure of 1 surable measure of the Other), the extermination is to the evaluation of historical situations (the Altogether-Evil as incommensurable measure of Evil). As a result, the extermination and the Nazis are both declared unthinkable, unsayable, without conceivable precedent or posterity - since they define the absolute form of Evil - yet they are constantly invoked, compared, used to schematize every circumstance in which one wants to produce, among opinions, an effect of the awareness [conscience] of Evil - since the only way to access Evil in general is under the historical condition of radical Evil. So it was as early as 1956, in order to justify the Anglo-French invasion of Egypt, some Western political leaders and the press did not hesitate for a second to use the formula 'Nasser is Hitler'. We have seen the same thing again more recently, as much with Saddam Hussein (in Iraq) as with Slobodan Milosevie (in Serbia). But at the same time, we are insistently reminded that the extermination and the Nazis were unique, and that to compare them to anything else at all is a defilement. In fact, this paradox is simply that of radical Evil itself (and, in truth, of every mise en transcendence' of a reality or concept). The measure must itself be unmeasurable, yet it must constantly be measured. The extermination is indeed both that which measures all the Evil our time is capable of, being itself beyond measure, and that to which we must compare everything (thus measuring it unceasingly) that we say is to be judged in terms of the manifest certainty of Evil. As the supreme negative example, this crime is inimitable, but every crime is an imitation of it. To get out of this circle, to which we are condemned by the fact that we want to subordinate the question of Evil to a consensual judgement of opinion (a judgement that then has to be pre-structured by the supposition of a radical Evil), we obviously have to abandon the theme of radical Evil, of the measure without measure. This theme, like that of the Altogether-Other, belongs to religion. It goes without saying that, of course, that the extermination of the European Jews is a hideous state crime, whose horror is such that whichever way we look at it, we know - unless we are prepared to stoop to repulsive sophistry - that we are confronted by an Evil that cannot in any sense be quietly ('Hegelian-ly') classified among the transitory necessities of the Historical process. I further accept, without reservation, the singularity of the extermination. The bland category of 'totalitarianism' - was forged in order to group under a single concept the politics of Nazism and of Stalinism, the extermination of the European Jews and the massacres in Siberia. This amalgamation does nothing to clarify our thinking, not even our thinking about Evil. We must accept the irreducibility of the extermination (just as we must accept the reducibility of the Stalinist Party-state) . But then the whole point is to situate [localiser] this singularity. Fundamentally, those who uphold the ideology of human rights try to situate it directly in Evil, in keeping with their objectives of pure opinion. We have seen that this attempt at the religious absolutization of Evil is incoherent. Moreover, it is very threatening, like anything that puts thought up against an impassable 'limit'. For the reality of the inimitable is constant imitation, and by dint of seeing Hitlers everywhere we forget that he is dead, and that what is happening before our eyes is the creation of new singularities of Evil. In fact, to think the singularity of the extermination is to think, first of all, the singularity of Nazism as a political sequence. This is the whole problem. Hitler was able to conduct the extermination as a colossal militarized operation because he had taken power, and he took power in the name of a politics whose categories included the term 'Jew'. The defenders of ethical ideology are so determined to locate the singularity of the extermination directly in Evil that they generally deny, categorically, that Nazism was a political sequence. But this position is both feeble and cowardly. Feeble, because the constitution of Nazism as a 'massive' subjectivity integrating the word Jew as part of a political configuration is what made the extermination possible, and then inevitable. Cowardly, because it is impossible to think politics through to the end if we refuse to envisage the possibility of political sequences whose organic categories and subjective prescriptions are criminal. The partisans of the 'democracy of human rights' are fond - with Hannah Arendt - of defining politics as the stage of a 'beingtogether'. It is with regard to this definition, incidentally, that they fail to grasp the political essence of Nazism. But this definition is merely a fairy-tale - all the more so since the being-together must first determine the collective i [ensemble] concerned, and this is the whole question. Nobody desired the being-together of the Germans more than Hitler. The Nazi category of the 'Jew' served to name the German interior, the space of a being-together, via the (arbitrary yet prescriptive) construction of an exterior that could be monitored from the interior -just as the certainty of being 'all French together' presupposes that we persecute, here and now, those who fall under the category of 'illegal immigrant'. One of the singularities of Nazi politics was its precise proclamation of the historical community that was to be endowed with a conquering subjectivity. And it was this proclamation that enabled its subjective victory, and put extermination on the agenda. Thus we are entitled to say, in this case, that the link between politics and Evil emerges precisely from the way both the collective [ensemble] (the thematics of communities) and the being-with (the thematics of consensus, of shared norms) are taken into consideration. But what matters is that the singularity of the Evil derives, in the final analysis, from the singularity of a political sequence. This takes us back to the subordination of Evil - if not directly to the Good, at least to the processes that lay claim to it. Nazi politics was not a truth-process, but it was only in so far as it could be represented as such that it 'seized' the German situation. So that even in the case of this Evil, which I would call extreme rather than radical, the intelligibility of its 'subjective' being, the question of the 'someones'who were able to participate in its horrifying execution as if accomplishing a duty, needs to be referred back to the intrinsic dimensions of the process of political truth.