[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Dedevelopment== 

**<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">The Current System Dominates the Individual. It is a Monster That Consumes and Wastes Everything in its Path.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Trainer ‘85 (Abandon Affluence!) </span>

<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Our Current Economy inevitably creates gross inequality and waste on the national and international levels. </span>
<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Trainer ’85 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Abandon Affluence!, pg. 226) </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**These Inequalities Cause Permanent Repression and Exploitation of the World’s Poor.** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Trainer ’85** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Abandon Affluence!, pg. 121) </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
**__PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHALL WITHDRAW ALL MILITARY AND POLICE PRESENCE IN__** **__SOUTH KOREA__****__,__** **__TURKEY__****__,__** **__AFGHANISTAN__****__,__** **__IRAQ__****__,__** **__JAPAN__** **__AND__** **__KUWAIT__****__.__**

U.S. reneging on its commitments and withdrawing troops makes power projection difficult. Economic security, military capability and commitments to allies are impossible in a world of isolationism or off shore balancing.
<span class="Author-Date">__Thayer 06__(</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Bradley, Associate Professor in Missouri State University, //In Defense of Primacy//, [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2751/is_86/ai_n27065796/pg_2/]])**,**</span> **__citing Barry R. Posen__** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">is Professor of Political Science in the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (“American Defense Policy”) </span>
<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Every instance matters—any case of withdrawal causes rivals to challenge US hegemony </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">DR. JACQUELYN K.</span> <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">DAVIS et al,</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">executive VP of IFPA, DR. ROBERT L. PFALTZGRAFF, JR., Professor of International Security Studies at Tufts University, DR. CHARLES M. PERRY, VP and director of studies of IFPA, JAMES L. SCHOFF, associate director of Asia-Pacific Studies at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, ”UPDATING U.S. DETERRENCE CONCEPTS AND OPERATIONAL PLANNING REASSURING ALLIES, DETERRING LEGACY THREATS, AND DISSUADING NUCLEAR "WANNABES"”, February </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">20<span class="Author-Date">09</span></span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, Institute for Foreign Policy Analyses, http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/Updating_US_Deterrence_Concepts.pdf </span>


**<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Hegemony is key to the global economy – free trade and globalization. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Bradley A. Thayer.</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, 2007 [“The Case For The American Empire,” American Empire: A Debate, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415952034, p. 43-44] Economic Prosperity</span>


**<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">The Government and corporations are unsustainable post-plan. Critical thinking, self sufficiency and social forethought will flourish with the oppressing agencies rendered nonexistent. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Trainer ’85</span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Abandon Affluence, Page 263-264)</span>
**<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">The Status Quo Cannot Be Maintained At Current Levels, And A Massive Shift Is Necessary To Avert Complete Scarcity </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Trainer ’85</span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Abandon Affluence! Pg.55) </span>


==Deconstruction== 

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">In the status quo, Western culture disrupts the connection of how we understand ourselves in relation to our physical being and corporeality. This culture then creates a singular bastardization of our being and our understanding of identity, which rightfully exist on both a physical and metaphysical level.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka, Angela Ales </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Bello</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, Phenomenology: Foundations - Dynamics - Life - Engagements (Analecta Husserliana, Vol. 80), 20</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">03</span>__**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The controlling social structures work to define our single identities. By ‘accepting’ the control of the prevailing social structures, we rely on it to define our being for us, becoming ontologically dependant on them through their use of normative generalizations of how we should be.</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.5pt;">
</span>
<span style="color: black;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">John </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Wilson</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, Director Farmington Trust Research Unit, Oxford, CONCEPTS OF INDOCTRINATION, I.A. Snook, editor, 19</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">72</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, p.102</span></span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">Since objective values can never be proven, the normative statements social structures impose are never justified.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">Alasdair </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">MacIntyre</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, After Virtue, 19</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">81</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">. Page 20.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">This lack of proof turns all people into resources that simply fuel the creation of further “objective” claims. This reduces people into usable objects and justifies all atrocity.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">Joseph </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Kockelmans</span>__****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">,</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">Penn State philosopher,</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;"> HEIDEGGER AND SCIENCE, 19</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">85</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">, p.251-2.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">This use of normative statements destroys the ability to affirm any single value as true, as a true statement must be confirmed by multiple perspectives.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">Jon </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Simons</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">,</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;"> professor of political philosophy and feminist theory @ the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Foucault and the Political, 19</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">95</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, p. 20</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">We thus propose the plan: the </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">United States</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;"> federal government will revoke the citizenship all of the soldiers in </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">Iraq</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">, </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">Afghanistan</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">, </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">South Korea</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">, </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">Turkey</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">, </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">Japan</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;"> and </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">Kuwait</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">.</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">This would have an intrinsic effect, an effect we will view through the lens of The Soldier. Disconnected from the social structures that legitimized Its understanding of being, The Soldier has no justification for Its being. The Soldier will seek a new justification for Its being, one that can only be provided by the here-and-now. Becoming the Overman allows for an understanding of being based on Its relationships with the world in which it resides.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">Eugen </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Fink</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">20</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">03</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13.0pt;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">Nietzsche’s Philosophy</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">Only through this state of constantly understanding one’s relationship with everything else can there be true value: it is this self-ownership of ones ideals that gives us the ability to take a just or moral action.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">Murray </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Rothbard</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">Professor of Economics, Polytechnic Institute of New York, FREEDOM AND VIRTUE, George Carey, ed., 19</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">84</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">, p.92-3</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">We purport that the role of the ballot in this round would be an affirmation that such social structures turn us into resources towards ends that are never able to be justified, as The Soldier is. A vote for the affirmative would represent the need to break free from those structures. However, a vote for the negative would always represent a complacence with those social structures and the harms of the status quo.</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">It is through deconstructive acts that we can successfully dismantle knowledge we once considered self-evident. This analysis of ideas we took for granted or passively accepted allows us to achieve a better understanding of the foundations of knowledge they’re built upon.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">Christopher </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Norris</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, Professor of the History of Ideas, University of Wales, DERRIDA, 19</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">87</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, p.18-19.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">It is because of our discourse that we are able to deconstruct the social structures and the normative statements they impose, as language creates our understanding of a subject.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">Honi Fern </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Haber</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, Professor of Philosophy, University of Colorado, Denver, BEYOND POSTMODERN POLITICS, 19</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">94</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, p.11.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">Lastly, our being will always be affected by this understanding. This means that our discursive deconstruction affects our understanding of being: our reinterpretation of ontology is what allows us to reach self-ownership through affirmation.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Bleiker, 00</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">(Roland, Ph.D. visiting research and teaching affiliations at Harvard, Cambridge, Humboldt, Tampere, Yonsei and Pusan National University as well as the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology and the Institute of Social Studies in The Hague, Popular Dissent , Human Agency and Global Politics, Cambridge University Press)</span>



=Negative= 
==Dedevelopment== 
Same as aff, just using some overstretch cards and the counterplan-text is a complete reversal of the affirmative case (ex. increase troops in South Korea) and triple the military budget.
==Deconstruction== 

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">In this round, the affirmative has taken it upon themselves to define the relationships between multiple beings, stating that those relationships have a singular significance that benefits the points they have made. They have assumed that theirs is the only truth of those relationships and that those truths justify their course of action.</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">This kind of definition of relationships is what is inherent with the status quo culture, making us ontologically dependant upon them for our understanding of being and justifying the status quo’s harms.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">John </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Wilson</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, Director Farmington Trust Research Unit, Oxford, CONCEPTS OF INDOCTRINATION, I.A. Snook, editor, 19</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">72</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, p.102</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">This passive acceptance places us within a singular mode of being that separates us from the physical world. This disrupts the connection of how we understand ourselves in relation to our physical being and corporeality. This creates a singular bastardization of our being and understanding of identity, which rightfully exists on both the physical and metaphysical.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka, Angela Ales </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Bello</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, Phenomenology: Foundations - Dynamics - Life - Engagements (Analecta Husserliana, Vol. 80), 20</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">03</span>__**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">The social structures they use that reinforce singular relationships attempt to create objective claims and normative statements, which can never be proven or justified.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">Alasdair </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">MacIntyre</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, After Virtue, 19</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">81</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">. Page 20.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">The affirmative’s constant attempt at creating normative statements will result in the use of humans as resources to further power of the controlling social structures, justifying all atrocity in the name of “the truth”. This turns all solvency of the affirmative as they cause that which they seek to abolish.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">Joseph </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Kockelmans</span>__****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">,</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">Penn State philosopher,</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;"> HEIDEGGER AND SCIENCE, 19</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">85</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">, p.251-2.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">A true statement can only be true if it is proven true from multiple perspectives. Since the affirmative social structures only ever allow a single view to be formed and controlled, we can never prove that their statements about relationships or values can ever be true.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">Jon </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Simons</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">,</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;"> professor of political philosophy and feminist theory @ the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Foucault and the Political, 19</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">95</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, p. 20</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">To remove that which controls each person is to allow each person a right to access themselves. The affirmative never provides a way for each person to surpass themselves, to become the Overman. The negative removes the agent that justifies each person’s being, so ontologies are not how they should be for the agent, but how they should be for any given individual person.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">Murray </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Rothbard</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">Professor of Economics, Polytechnic Institute of New York, FREEDOM AND VIRTUE, George Carey, ed., 19</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">84</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">, p.92-3</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">The Alternative is that by rejecting the affirmative, we are able to surpass the social structures that define our being and we are able to define our own being; we can finally self-realize. By doing this, we solve for the harms of the affirmative by allowing each person to make their own decisions with legitimate justifications, never justifying their actions for them.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">Eugen </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Fink</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">20</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">03</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13.0pt;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6.0pt;">Nietzsche’s Philosophy</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">By affirming the intellectual as a means to reaching justified conclusions, we can understand why a statement is true and not simply how it functions as the affirmative attempts to do in their definition of relationships. This ultimately creates better action by the participants of relationships.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Biswas</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;"> December </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">20**07**</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">, (Shampa, Professor of Politics at Whitman College, “Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist,” Millennium: Journal of International Studies, Vol. 36, No. 1, p. 124</span>



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">Only by deconstructing the meaning and ontology of Being can we truly see the ontological relationships of each person. If we do not attempt to reach the “bottom”, we will never understand how Being is to exist in terms of the physical and ideal, rather than the singularity proposed by the affirmative.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">Christopher </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Norris</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, Professor of the History of Ideas, University of Wales, DERRIDA, 19</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">87</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, p.18-19.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">It is because of our discourse that we are able to deconstruct the social structures and the normative statements they impose, as language creates our understanding of a subject. At the same time, this is a unique reason to reject any attempt by the affirmative to permutate: their representations will always co-opt ours, and they cannot escape their representation in the 1AC without the rejection of the plan.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">Honi Fern </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Haber</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, Professor of Philosophy, University of Colorado, Denver, BEYOND POSTMODERN POLITICS, 19</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">94</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">, p.11.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.0pt;">Multiple understandings of Being are only available through discourse. By denying the negative’s attempt at discourse, ontologies can never actually be accessed or changed, which is essential to understanding and to solving for the harms of the affirmative. Discourse reinstates the identity of the individual as a space for discussion of what ‘is’.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt;">Bleiker, 00</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8.0pt;">(Roland, Ph.D. visiting research and teaching affiliations at Harvard, Cambridge, Humboldt, Tampere, Yonsei and Pusan National University as well as the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology and the Institute of Social Studies in The Hague, Popular Dissent , Human Agency and Global Politics, Cambridge University Press)</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]