[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">**1AC- Japan**</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US forces in Japan resides in Okinawa, residents are protesting for withdrawal</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Albano ‘10 [Teresa, She is a member of the Chicago Newspaper Guild, Communication Workers of America, and has been active in grassroots political and labor organizing for more than 25 years. “90,000 Protest U.S. Base in Okinawa,” 4/27/10, [[@http://www.peoplesworld.org/90-000-protest-u-s-base-in-okinawa/]]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Relations with Japan continue to decline over Futenma; the impact is more detrimental than having one less base</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Global Policy Journal, Chen, ‘10 [Sean Chen a Trans-Pacific Fellow at Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, a Washington, D.C. based think tank. He specializes in the politics and international relations of the Asia-Pacific, specifically on China, Taiwan, cross-Strait relations, Japan, and U.S. foreign policy towards the region. – 3-31-10, Okinawa: Flashpoint for a New U.S.-Japan Relationship?[[@http://www.globalpolicyjournal.com/blog/31/03/2010/okinawa-flashpoint-new-us-japan-relationship]]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Okinawa Base issues are causing conflict in the U.S–Japan Alliance</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> McCormack, Foreign Policy In Focus 9/26/10 [Gavan McCormack is a coordinator of The Asia-Pacific Journal, an emeritus professor of Australian National University, and author of previous studies in this journal of the US-Japan relationship and Okinawa, including the three-part “Ampo’s Troubled 50th: Hatoyama’s abortive rebellion, Okinawa’s mounting resistance and the US-Japan relationship”, 31 May 2010. He is author of Client State: Japan in the American Embrace. He wrote this article for The Asia-Pacific Journal. 9-26-10, The U.S Japan Alliance, Okinawa and three looming elections[[@http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_okinawa_and_three_looming_elections]]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Disagreement over Okinawa Base kills Bilateral alliance</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Global Research ‘10 [Michael Werbowski, 5-5-10, U.S. Military Base in Japan: Source of Friction and Mistrust? ([[@http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=19003]]reporter of geopolitics such as EU and NATO enlargement for the prominent Czech daily "Lidove Noviny" and the "Prague Post." He has written news and commentary for newspapers such as "Excelsior" and "Tiempos del Mundo" in Mexico City]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">On the brink – domestic instability threatens the alliance and prevents cooperation.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Tobias Harris, doctoral student in political science at the MIT, Newsweek. 7-16-10 “Japan-U.S. Relations Could Get Bumpy”</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[@http://www.newsweek.com/2010/07/16/a-fragile-alliance.html]]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">People’s opinions are vital to alliance: cornerstone of peace in Asia</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Campbell ‘10 [Kurt Campbell, Assistant Secretary, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, 7-27-10 U.S.-Japan Relations for the 21st Century, [[@http://www.state.gov/p/eap/rls/rm/2010/07/145191.htm]]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Regional war with china goes nuclear</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Johnson ‘01 [Chalmers President of the Japan Policy Research Institute, “Time to Bring the Troops Home,” The Nation 5/14/01[[@http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/Imperialism_Neocolonialism/Bring_Troops_Home.html]]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Strong alliance is necessary to initiate change and protect the environment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Calder ‘10 [Kent E. Calder, Director of Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies at SAIS/Johns Hopkins University, 02/01/2010 “U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.‐JAPAN COOPERATION”, <[[@http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf|http://www.us-jpri./en/reports/s1_calder.pdf]]>. AP]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Collaboration with Japan to solve climate change is critical to success</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Campbell 7/27/10 [Kurt Campbell, Assistant Secretary, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, 7-27-10 U.S.-Japan Relations for the 21st Century, [[@http://www.state.gov/p/eap/rls/rm/2010/07/145191.htm]]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The only way to prevent extinction of entire human race is to reverse climate change</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Red Orbitciting Fenner and Boyden 6/17/10 [Frank Fenner and Stephen Boyden, distinguished professors at the Australian National University 6-17-10, Scientist Predicts Human Extinction In 100 Years, [[@http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1881226/scientist_predicts_human_extinction_in_100_years/]]]</span>
=Negative= 

==Kritiks== 
===Empire K=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The affirmative’s realization that brute force is insufficient in asymmetric warfare, and their plan to withdraw and rely on alternative methods of control – social, economic, political, and psychological – results in a ‘full spectrum of power,’ advancing imperial control in a subtler and more nefarious manner.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hardt and Negri 2004 (Michael Hardt, Associate Professor of Literature and Romance Studies at Duke University. and Antonio Negri, Lecturer in Political Science at the University of Paris and a Professor of Political Science at the University of Padua, 2004, Multitude, p. 54-5)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Affirmative plan sustains a corrupt militaristic giant that recreates its own violence. The act of withdrawing troops is part of a ploy of Empire used in order to extend its control over the globe.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mann 2003 (Michael, British-born professor of Sociology at the UCLA and Visiting Research Professor at Queen's University Belfast Incoherent Empire, isbn: 1859845827, p 13-4)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Reject the empire in the embrace of the multitude. Choose Neg, choose not to take part in the mechanization of Imperium. There is a need to break free, and it has never been easier - it is simply a choice, a choice that will guarantee the power of the multitude. You are of the multitude and that, in itself should reinforce the critique.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hardt and Negri 2000 (Michael Hardt, Associate Professor of Literature and Romance Studies at Duke University. and Antonio Negri, Lecturer in Political Science at the University of Paris and a Professor of Political Science at the University of' Padua, 2000, Empire, p. 61)</span>

===Localism K=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Externalizing violence by prescribing what the government should do ensures that violence continues while we wallow in powerlessness.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kappeler 95 (Suzanne, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, pg. 10-11)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan solidifies a focus on national strategies which trades off with local action</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kleidman and Rochon 97 (Robert, associate professor of sociology at Cleveland State University, and Thomas R, professor and director of the Center for Politics and Economics at Claremont Graduate University, Coalitions and Political Movements, p. 54-55//)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Even simple demands like the aff get bogged down and robbed of their meaning. A national focus devastates movement effectiveness, gutting solvency</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rochon 97 (Thomas R, professor and director of the Center for Politics and Economics at Claremont Graduate University, Coalitions and Political Movements, p. 175-176)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Any approval for the left always empirically involves compensation for the military</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Meyer 90 (David S, associate professor of political science at the City University of New York, A Winter of Discontent: The Nuclear Freeze and American Politics, p. 67-69)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Surrendering our individual agency reduces us to serviceable instruments of the state which authorizes war and genocide.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Beres 94 (Louis Rene, Professor of International Law @ Purdue University, 11 Ariz. J. Int'l & Comp. Law 1, Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law, SELF-DETERMINATION, INTERNATIONAL LAW AND SURVIVAL ON PLANET EARTH)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alternative is to vote neg to reject the affirmative’s focus on national policymaking in the context of the United States’ international military and policy presence. Local anti-military activism empirically draws massive support and fosters changed thinking for issues.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rochon 97 (Thomas R, professor and director of the Center for Politics and Economics at Claremont Graduate University, Coalitions and Political Movements, p. 167-68)</span>

==<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">**Disadvantages**</span>== 
===Defense Spending DA=== 
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; text-align: left;"> </span>
**<span class="s1">Miltary spending is on the brink of being cut. Withdrawal of troops will lead to major military spending cuts and a tighter budget</span>**
<span class="s1">Thom Shanker and Christoper Drew July 22, 2010[NY Times, Pentagon Faces Growing Pressures to Trim Budget, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/23/us/politics/23budget.html]]? ] </span>

**<span class="s1">Cuts in defense spending would cause an economic downturn</span>**
<span class="s1">Marjorie Censer and Peter Whoriskey September 11, 2010[Washington Post writers, The Washington Post, “Defense cuts may slow area economy”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/09/10/AR2010091007168.html]]]</span>

**<span class="s1">Trends show that the economy is on the rise.</span>**
<span class="s1">CNN Wire Staff 2010[CNN, Economy getting better, but still 'a long way to go, [[http://articles.cnn.com/2010-04-04/politics/us.economy_1_unemployment-rate-economic-growth-council-of-economic-advisers?_s=PM:POLITICS]]] </span>

**<span class="s1">Continued economic downturn will lead to wars and extinction.</span>**
<span class="s1">Mead, ’09 [Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, New Republic, February 4, [[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2%5D|http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.ht...83915f5f8&p=2]]]</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]