[[toc]]
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Affirmative</span>= 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">If you have any questions email **ghosh895@gmail.com**. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Advantage 1 is Orientalism </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">In the 1980s my parents immigrated to America along with thousands of other Hangukins. The fact that they immigrated shows the effect of colonialism on Hangukins. When the Americans came into Daehanminguk they caused our people to have a mindset that America is better than them. This would cause our people to look to America for everything and for us to become a vulnerable state power in the world. In fact it was just the effects of Western Orientalism and colonialism that caused my country to be split into Daehanminguk and Bukhan. When the Americans came into our country that split our country of Daehan Joseon with their paranoia building up the communist party of Joseon and causing the split into Bukhan and Daehanminguk. They have caused bloodshed and dehumanized millions of people in the region and allowing their continuation in Daehanminguk concedes to wrong idea that it's okay to use violent colonialized and orientalist language. It's not only an insult to me and my people but it's something that affects everyone. Everyday when people use orientalist and colonialist discourse on policy issues on Daehanminguk. I feel dehumanized because I am looked as a subject of orientalism and colonialism. The only way to stop further dehumanization is to change the way we talk about Daehanminguk as intellectuals and future policymakers. This will cause a spillover effect where we never have to be subject to orientalist or colonialist language again. Because we are discussing this in this round, we start a cycle to stop Orientalism and colonialism. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Thus, Priyanka and I advocate that the United States Federal Government should withdraw military presence from Daehanminguk</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">The US has a dominating mindset toward Daehanminguk – the negative’s arguments are fused with the idea that the US must come in and save the crazy Hangukins </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Eunwoo 8** (Senior Researcher at the Institute for Gender Research, Seoul National University, Ph.D in Sociology from Seoul National University, “Under the Gaze of the American Other”, [[http://www.ekoreanjournal.net/upload/html/HTML4419.html|www.eKoreanjournal.net/upload/html/HTML4419.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Dialectics between the ideal ego…in brothels serving US soldiers. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">The United States’ discourse and colonialist actions towards Daehanminguk allowed for Orientalism politics that legitimized the role of dictators in the Daehanminguk-Bukhan Peninsula</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Moon 7** (Stephen J. Moon, Stephen M. Ross School of Business at University of Michigan, “The Pillars of American Imperialism: Rationalizing U.S. Cold War Involvement in the Republic of Korea,” Lethbridge Undergraduate Research Journal, 2007, Volume 2 No.1) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">According to Edward Said, formation… “exceptional” enough to rule themselves. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">US military in Daehanminguk shows extreme Orientalism – withdrawing troops will solve the way we look at Daehanminguk</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Eunwoo 8** (Senior Researcher at the Institute for Gender Research, Seoul National University, Ph.D in Sociology from Seoul National University, “Under the Gaze of the American Other”, [[http://www.ekoreanjournal.net/upload/html/HTML4419.html|www.eKoreanjournal.net/upload/html/HTML4419.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Thus, they have gained benefits…in brothels serving US soldiers. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Orientalist policy is inherently dehumanizing**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Said 3** (Edward, Prof. of English/Comparative Lit., Columbia U., “Preface.” Orientalism. p. xxvii)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> Reflection, debate, rational argument, moral...into jingoism and false patriotism. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">The West uses Orientalism to dominate other countries </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Said 78** (Edward, “Orientalism”, professor of comparative literature at Columbia, p 35, date accessed: 7/7/2010)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">If British success in Egypt... use-how streamlined and effective. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Dehumanization is the root cause of violence and war </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Katz 97** (Katheryn D. Katz, prof. of law - Albany Law School, 1997, Albany Law Journal)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> It is undeniable that throughout... poverty and misery of others. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Dehumanization means no value to life**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Dillon 99** (Michael, University of Lancaster, “Another Justice” Political Theory Vol. 27, No. 2, April 1999)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Otherness is born(e) within the...the human way of being. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Their argument risks a slippery slope – once we decide that certain lives are not worth living – all killing is justified and we jeopardize all ethics**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Hanger 92** (Lisa, B.A. at Miami University, Summer, 1992, Journal of Law-Medicine, 5 Health Matrix 347)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Considering anencphalic infants “dead” or... the slippery slope becomes significant. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Dehumanization outweighs nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Berube 97** (David, Ph.D. in Communications, “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side”, NanoTechnology Magazine, June/July 1997, p. 1-6, URL:http://www.cla.sc.edu/ENGL/faculty/berube/prolong.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> This means-ends dispute is at... is evil’s most powerful weapon. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Orientalism causes widespread colonialism**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Said 78** (Edward, “Orientalism”, professor of comparative literature at Columbia, p 120, date accessed: 7/7/2010) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> But if these interconnected elements... attention on all those counts. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Daehanminguk is the official and correct name of what you would call “South Korea”**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Kim 05** (Kim Un Hwe, professor at Dong Yang University. “9 Reasons for Daehanminguk”. 5-24-05. [[http://www.pressian.com/article/article.asp?article_num=40050524180253&Section]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> In the south, the Samhan... makes us lose our identity. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Continuing a western idea of nation-naming continues western colonialism**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Waheed 2** (“The West’s Weapons of Mass Destruction and Colonialist Foreign Policy”, Director of Hizb ut-Tahrir Britain, an Islamic political party in England http://www.internetmuslim.com/dossier_3nov02.pdf, p.46-47)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> In reality colonialism flows through...the people with economic hardship. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Colonial language produces violences and justifies oppression of the colonized**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Stuckey and Murphy 1** (“By Any Other Name: Rhetorical Colonialism In North America”, Professor of Political Science @ GSU & Associate Professor of Speech Communication @ UGA JSTOR, Journal of American Indian Culture and Research, pg. 79-81)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">The fragile ability of resident...are afraid of losing them.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Our plan is more than its literal content - it functions as a metaphor for challenging global systems of oppression</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Zizek 99** (Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljiana, 1999 (Slavoj, The Ticklish Subject). </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Let us recall the standard... to the dimension beyond particularity. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Discourse comes first – racist representations both ensure radical elimination and are ideologically constructed to justify imperialism**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Doty 96** (Roxanne Doty, Prof. of Political Science @ ASU [Woot], 96 [Imperial Encounters: The Politics of Reprsentations in North-South Relations, p. 166-71)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">One of the deadly traces... and complicity in dominant representations. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Questioning current problem and solution dichotomies is necessary to break down colonialism**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Brydon 6** (Diana Brydon, University of Western Ontario, ‘6 Postcolonial Test 2.1, “Is There a Politics of Postcoloniality?” [[http://journals.sfu.ca/pocol/index.php/pct/article/viewArticle/508/175]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">At its most fundamental level...of how to resist colonialization.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**Discourse shapes reality**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> **Chia 00** (Robert, University of Essex, “Discourse Analysis as Organizational Analysis”, Organization, Volume 7(3): 513, [[http://geocities.ws/visisto/Biblioteca/Chia_Discourse.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">The question of discourse, and...social reality is systematically constructed. </span>



=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]