====[[media type="custom" key="8316954"]]<span style="font-size: 110%;">Note:</span>==== 
We have no tournaments left this year.
**<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">How the Aff Side Works: We'll post the 1AC advs...if you have questions about 2AC cards or the Aff, email [[mailto:jtpitma@gmail.com|jtpitma@gmail.com]]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">How Neg Works: We'll post all generics...if you want cites to the other stuff in headings, email [[mailto:tuckerboyce@gmai.com|tuckerboyce@gmail.com]] and it will be up in 2-3 days.</span>**

<span style="font-size: 110%;">[[toc]]
</span>







=<span style="font-size: 110%;">Aff</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 110%;">*Afghanistan COIN* (Broke at Wake)</span>== 

===<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Inherency </span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 110%;"> The Status Quo - Obama has pledged to withdrawal but it is uncertain – most likely a presence will stay past 2011</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">O’Hanlon, Director of Research and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy, 2010 [ Michael E. O’Hanlon, “Afghanistan, U.S. Military, U.S. Department of Defense, Defense, Democracy Promotion” [[http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2010/0825_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx]]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Nine years ago, the United States worked</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> S. troops still in Afghanistan through 2012.</span>


===<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Plan Texts We've Read</span>=== 


<span style="font-size: 110%;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should reduce the amount of soldiers present in Afghanistan to levels consistent with counter-terrorism.</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should transition to an effective counterterrorism strategy reducing the amount of its military personnel to at most 13,000.</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Thus the plan: The United States federal government should transition to an effective counterterrorism strategy in Afghanistan reducing the amount of its military personnel to at most 13,000. </span>

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Advantages We've Read this Year</span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Terrorism </span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 110%;">A nuclear terrorist attack is inevitably by 2013 - Al Qaida will execute it and it will kill thousands and cause global instability - ALL top experts agree</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Allison 10 - Douglas Dillon professor of government and director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government (Graham, “A Failure to Imagine the Worst,” Foreign Policy, January 25th, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/25/a_failure_to_imagine_the_worst?page=0,0]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">In his first speech to the U.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> action, and relentless determination to pursue it.</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Arkedis 9 (Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven]]| Suo)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">As deliberations about the Obama administration's strategic direction</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Qaeda the only physical space it can access.</span>



<span style="font-size: 110%;">Terrorist attack leads to extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">The Washington Times 8 (By Louis Rene Beres, Thomas McInerney and Paul E. Vallely, SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES, July 18, “McCain and Obama must take note”, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Neither presidential candidate has made serious mention</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> issues concern nothing less than our physical survival.</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">COIN operations provides a safe haven for the Taliban – FATA regions and increased resentment</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Janjua 9 [Muhammad Qaiser, “In the Shadow of the Durand Line: Security, Stability, and the Future of Pakistan and Afghanistan” Naval Postgraduate School, June 2009, p. 69-70]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Regions with strategic importance have been exploited by</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">, especially after the Mumbai attacks.151 and</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">A limited counterterrorism deployment is the only sustainable strategy to keep al Qaeda out of Afghanistan</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Long 10 (Austin Long is an assistant professor at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs and co-author with William Rosenau of The Phoenix Program and Contemporary Counterinsurgency at RAND, 2010, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan”, Orbis, Volume 54, Issue 2, 2010, Pages 199-214 | Suo)</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">As policymakers have sought to grapple with the</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">ANDthe best alternative for the United States.56</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Removing troops increases local pressure against Al-Qaeda</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Dorronsoro 9 (DR. Gilles November 17, “U.S. STRATEGY IN IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN; COMMITTEE: HOUSE ARMED SERVICES; SUBCOMMITTEE: OVERSIGHT AND INVESTIGATIONS”, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">The International Coalition's main objective in Afghanistan is </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> invest more resources into fighting its primarily enemy directly</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Only a risk of presence creating a safe haven – collateral damage causes the Taliban and al Qaeda to unite</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Innocent and Carpenter 9 [Malou Innocent and Ted Galen Carpenter, “Escaping the “Graveyard of Empires”: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan” p 5]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Moreover, the worst-case scenario—</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> likely to push disparate Islamist groups to unite.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 110%;">EU-US Relations/Free Trade</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Advantage 2 is EU-US Relations: </span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Afghanistan hurts EU relations</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Shapiro and Nick 09 (Jeremy Shapiro and Nick Witney The European Council on Foreign Relations (ECFR) is the first pan-European think-tank. Launched in October 2007, its objective is to conduct research and promote informed debate across Europe on the development of coherent, effective and values-based European foreign policy Towards a Post-American Europe:A Power Audit of EU-US Relations November 2009http:ecfr.3cdn.net/cdb1d0a4be418dc49c_2em6bg7a0.pdf . )</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [The lack of European commitment AND the last important nonAmerican command.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Good relations with the EU Key to free trade.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Hamilton and Burwell 09( Atlantic Council of the United States Center for European Policy Studies Center for Strategic and International Studies Center for Transatlantic Relations, Johns Hopkins University SAIS Fundacion Alternativas Prague Security Studies Institute Real Instituto Elcano Swedish Institute of International Affairs Shoulder to Shoulder: Forging a Strategic U.S.-EU Partnership December 2009 http://www.acus.org/files/publication_pdfs/65/US-EUPartnership.pdf )</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">The world that created the AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">ahead with serious trade liberalization.]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">Free trade and its settlement are on the brink.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Robert Z. Lawrence Professor of International Trade and Investment at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, March 2007, “The United States and the WTO Dispute Settlement System” [[http://www.cfr.org/publication/12871/united_states_and_the_wto_dispute_settlement_system.html]] [Zavell]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">The shift from bilateral to </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> provides some recommendations for improvement.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Afghanistan is the main rift between eu and us relations</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Diaz 2008[ Arsenio Diaz Del Rio, “REBUILDING THETRANSATLANTIC PARTNERSHIP:US-EU RELATIONS IN THEPOST-IRAQ ERA” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA481294&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], 15 March 2008]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [All the above analysis shows AND unequivocal support for the invasion.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Free trade solves all war scenarios</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Griswold 98(, Associated Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the CATO Institute, 98 (Daniel, “Peace on Earth, Free Trade for Men,” 31 Dec, http://www.cato.org/dailys/12-31-98.html) [ Advocates of free trade have long AND policy of free trade.] Free trade key to mid east stability [[#LastEdit]] Irwin ‘8 – Robert E Maxwell Prof. of Economics @ Dartmouth University (Douglas, July 31, “Trade Liberalization: Cordell Hull and the Case for Optimism” Council on Foreign Relations, RG) [Trade agreements continue to have AND more open and tolerant governments.] Free trade prevents degradation and pollution—protectionism leads to the worst environmental calamities Futurecasts 02 (“Book Review: Free Trade Under Fire,” Vol. 4, No. 9, 01 Sep, http://www.futurecasts.com/Book%20review%204-09.htm) [ The greatest environmental disasters, Irwin AND in many instances may help."] Environmental destruction risks extinction Diner ‘94 (David, Major in JAG Corps, Military Law Review, “THE ARMY AND THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT: WHO'S ENDANGERING WHOM?” 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, L/N) [ By causing widespread extinctions, humans AND edging closer to the abyss.]]</span>

====<span style="font-size: 110%;">Space/ABLs</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Afghanistan is uniquely expensive—more than Iraq-- Wolf 10 (writer for the USA today Afghan war costs now outpace Iraq’s Updated 5/13/2010 5:50 AM http://www.usatoday.com/news/military/2010-05-12-afghan_N.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [WASHINGTON — The monthly cost of AND drive it up the road." </span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Troop withdrawals save billions in defense spending---that revenue gets recycled into the defense budget and spent on other DOD priorities</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Army Times 9 – Rick Maze, Staff Writer, September 5, 2009, “Faster troop withdrawal may save $1 trillion,” online: http://www.armytimes.com/news/2009/09/military_troopwithdrawals_cost_090309w/</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [A speedier withdrawal of U.S AND for unfunded weapons modernization programs.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Money would go to the Airborne Laser---it’s been put on hold now because of budget tradeoffs forced by troop deployment</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">SFC 10 – San Francisco Chronicle, April 16, 2010, “Laser in limbo mirrors tech weapons decline,” online: http://articles.sfgate.com/2010-04-16/business/20851874_1_lockheed-workers-silicon-valley-system</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [ But the Obama administration has AND laser may not get deployed.]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">We isolate two impacts:</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">ABL is key to fast development of a space-based laser this is key to space militarization</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Rogers 2 – Paul Rogers, Professor of Peace Studies at Bradford University, July 30, 2002, “Directed energy: a new kind of weapon,” online: http://www.opendemocracy.net/conflict/article_153.jsp</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [ The ABL is leading-edge AND and the control of space.]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">Additionally, current US policy of ambivalence toward space risks preemptive attack by other</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">powers</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Benjamin S. Lambeth, 2003, (RAND Sen. Staff, Mastering the Ultimate High Ground, Pg. 152-153)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [ On top of that, as AND a notional "space Pearl Harbor."]</span>



<span style="font-size: 110%;">The deployment of space weapons to protect our vital space infrastructure is key to prevent a second Pearl Harbor in space, maintain U.S. leadership, and will not lead to a new arms race or space war. Despite discussion of a new UN treaty, weaponization by Russia and China is inevitable - failure to act carries the greatest risk of conflict.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Peter Brookes is a Heritage Foundation senior fellow, June 7, 2005, (“Militarizing Space,”</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> http://www.heritage.org/Press/Commentary/ed060705a.cfm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [ The latest hysteria surrounds the AND the air — is a necessity.]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">Specifically, China and Russia are major competitors over space and will develop military space</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">power, allowing them to attack U.S. satellites.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Matthew Mowthorpe, Phd from University of Hull, The Militarization and Weaponization of Space p.215,</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">2004</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[ The People's Republic of AND defense and ASAT plans.]</span>



<span style="font-size: 110%;">And, protection of satellite monitoring capability through effective space militarization is key to</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">deter adversaries and avoid global conflict.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Matthew Mowthorpe, Phd from University of Hull, The Militarization and Weaponization of Space p.194,</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">2004</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[ The war game was set AND their movements are being monitored.]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">Leadership in space is vital to all aspects of American leadership and economic well-being.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Christopher Petras, Chief of Operations Law for United States Space Command, Fall 2002 (Journal of Air Law</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">and Commerce, </span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">[While the phrase "space control AND investments in space as well. 83]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">U.S. leadership ensures world stability and the prevention of proliferation, regional</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">conflicts, and global nuclear war - military dominance is key.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Khalilzad '95, U.S. Special envoy to Afghanistan [Zalmay, “Losing the Moment? The</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">United States and The World After the Cold War,” The Washington Quarterly, pg. 84;</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Spring 1995]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[ Under the third option, the AND multipolar balance of power system.]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">The next impact is space exploration--</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">First, effective space militarization key to developing technology used for space exploration in the</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">civilian and commercial arena.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Kevin Haggerty teaches at the University of Alberta and Richard Ericson at Oxford University. The summary is taken for their article in Militarizing the American Criminal Justice System: The Changing Roles of the Armed Forces and the Police, edited by Peter Kraska, Boston: 2001, Northeastern University Press, pp. 43-64, http://crpr.icaap.org/issues/issue1/haggarty-ericson.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [ Since World War II the AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">number of different non-martial applications.]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">And, space exploration is key to human survival for several reasons: first, a supervolcanoe eruption</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">is inevitable.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Robert Britt, Life Science Senior Writer, March 8, 2005 (MSNBC, Super Volcanoes Will Chill the World</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Someday, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/7129908/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> ["Although very rare, these events AND in advance of Tuesday's announcement.]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">This causes nuclear winter and extinction.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Maarten Keulemans, Scientific Journalist, 2003 (Exit Mundi, Super Volcanoes,</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> http://www.exitmundi.nl/exitmundi.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [So, we'd run away, right AND survivalist would starve to death.]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">And, there are multiple other scenarios for extinction if we do not get off the rock:</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Sylvia Hui, AP, June 13, 2006, The Associated Press, information from Stephen Hawking, a world renowned</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> scientist, http://apnews.myway.com/article/20060613/D8I7ADB81.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [ The survival of the AND They didn't provide other details.]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">Space travel solves all of humanity’s problems: not going into space leads to extinction.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Engdahl 2000 (Sylvia Engdahl, author, “Space and Human Survival,” July 4, 2000,</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> www.sylviaengdahl.com/space.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [ Some of you are probably AND one of evolution's failures.]</span>

====<span style="font-size: 110%;">Terrorism 2.0</span>==== 

====<span style="font-size: 110%;">CMR (Broke Round 2 Ohio Valley)</span>==== 

====<span style="font-size: 110%;">Heg (Varsity State/Woodward)</span>==== 

====<span style="font-size: 110%;">Terror 3.0 (Varsity State Woodward)</span>==== 

====<span style="font-size: 110%;">Anarchy Add-On</span>==== 
====<span style="font-size: 110%;">VTL Add-On</span>==== 
==<span style="font-size: 110%;">*Clandestine Affirmative* (Broke at Michigan)</span>== 

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Plan Text</span>=== 


<span style="font-size: 110%;">Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should reclassify a substantial number of its current armed forces in Afghanistan as members of the Special Activities Division of the Central Intelligence Agency’s National Clandestine Services.</span>



===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Inherency</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Obama has pledged to withdrawal but it is uncertain – most likely a presence will stay past 2011. </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">O’Hanlon, Director of Research and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy, 2010 [ Michael E. O’Hanlon, “Afghanistan, U.S. Military, U.S. Department of Defense, Defense, Democracy Promotion” [[http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2010/0825_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">[Nine years ago, the United States AND still in Afghanistan through 2012.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">US special operations have been super effective Biddle 04 (Stephen Biddle Elihu Root Chair of Military Studies, U.S. Army War College, Strategic Studies Institute (2006); Associate Professor of National Security Studies, U.S. Army War College, Strategic Studies Institute (2001-2005); Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (1998-2002); research staff member, Institute for Defense Analyses (1987-97). 24 May 2004 Special Forces and the Future of Warfare: Will SOF Predominate in 2020? [[http://www.dni.gov/nic/PDF_GIF_2020_Support/2004_05_25_papers/special%09_forces.pdf|http://www.dni.gov/nic/PDF_GIF_2020_Support/2004_05_25_papers/special _forces.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [American Special Operations Forces (SOF) have AND insurgents and hunting down terrorists.]</span>

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">SAD Advantage</span>=== 


<span style="font-size: 110%;">Sad is an extremely effective covert ops origination that does not exist when in action and is the forefront of Special Operations</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Shadow Spear 09 (This website is dedicated to Special Operations Forces (SOF) of the past, present, and future. We are owned, operated, and maintained by former special operations personnel. 10 February,2009 CIA SPECIAL ACTIVITIES DIVISION (SAD) [[http://shadowspear.com/united-states-special-operations/other-government-agency-special-operations/special-activities-division.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [Special Activities Division (SAD) is a AND Force or SEAL Team Six]</span>




<span style="font-size: 110%;">SAD was responsible for the early success in Afghanistan expanding key</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Shadow Spear 09 (This website is dedicated to Special Operations Forces (SOF) of the past, present, and future. We are owned, operated, and maintained by former special operations personnel. 10 February,2009 CIA SPECIAL ACTIVITIES DIVISION (SAD) [[http://shadowspear.com/united-states-special-operations/other-government-agency-special-operations/special-activities-division.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [The unit's existence became better AND Application Group, CAG), (MARS OC)]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">SAD includes all branches of Special Forces/military within it</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Shadow Spear 09 (This website is dedicated to Special Operations Forces (SOF) of the past, present, and future. We are owned, operated, and maintained by former special operations personnel. 10 February,2009 CIA SPECIAL ACTIVITIES DIVISION (SAD) [[http://shadowspear.com/united-states-special-operations/other-government-agency-special-operations/special-activities-division.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [Unlike other special operations units AND degrees from Ivy League schools.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Declaring forces SAD forces key lifting rules of engagements and ending the conflict (aka SAD no restrictions)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Feickert 10 (specialist in Military Ground Forces U.S. Special Operations Forces (SOF): Background and Issues for Congress July 16, 2010 http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RS21048.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [Limitations on SOF night raids AND and coalition casualties over time.]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">US special operations should be greatly expanded</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Biddle 04 (Stephen Biddle Elihu Root Chair of Military Studies, U.S. Army War College, Strategic Studies Institute (2006); Associate Professor of National Security Studies, U.S. Army War College, Strategic Studies Institute (2001-2005); Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (1998-2002); research staff member, Institute for Defense Analyses (1987-97). 24 May 2004 Special Forces and the Future of Warfare: Will SOF Predominate in 2020? [[http://www.dni.gov/nic/PDF_GIF_2020_Support/2004_05_25_papers/special_forces.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[Of course, this analysis is AND the Global War on Terror.41]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">A nuclear terrorist attack is inevitably by 2013 - Al Qaida will execute it and it will kill thousands and cause global instability - ALL top experts agree</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Allison 10 - Douglas Dillon professor of government and director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government (Graham, “A Failure to Imagine the Worst,” Foreign Policy, January 25th, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/25/a_failure_to_imagine_the_worst?page=0,0)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[In his first speech to AND relentless determination to pursue it.]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Arkedis 9 (Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven | Suo)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[As deliberations about the AND physical space it can access.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Terrorist attack leads to extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> The Washington Times 8 (By Louis Rene Beres, Thomas McInerney and Paul E. Vallely, SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES, July 18, “McCain and Obama must take note”, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [ Neither presidential candidate has made AND than our physical survival]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">Special forces solve Al-Qaeda </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Cortright 9 (David Cortright, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, OCTOBER 19, 2009, “No Easy Way Out”, http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=11917 | Suo)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[This analysis suggests the need AND effectively and with greater justice.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Only a risk of presence creating a safe haven – collateral damage causes the Taliban and al Qaeda to unite</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Innocent and Carpenter 9 [Malou Innocent and Ted Galen Carpenter, “Escaping the “Graveyard of Empires”: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan” p 5]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[Moreover, the worst-case scenario—the AND disparate Islamist groups to unite.]</span>

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">﻿Winning the War</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Human Rights Impact</span>

==<span style="font-size: 110%;">*Critical Kuwait* (Broke at Fayette)</span>== 


===**Inherency**=== 

Camp Arifjan is the largest and most advanced military base in Kuwait.
GlobalSecurity.org 4/26/05 (“Camp Arifjan” [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/camp-arifjan.htm]], Don Broker 2005) [Camp Arifjan is a new AND furnishings, according to...]

===**Plan**=== 

Thus James and I advocate that the United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and police presence in the State of Kuwait.

OR

Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should remove its military and police occupation in Kuwait.

===**Imperialism**=== 

The United States has imperial interest and is implementing imperialist policies in the Middle East – 3 reasons.
Samir Amin 2004 - as been Director of IDEP (the United Nations African Institute for Planning), the Director of the Third World Forum in Dakar, Senegal; and a co-founder of the World Forum for Alternatives. (“US Imperialism, Europe, and the Middle East”[[http://www.monthlyreview.org/1104amin.htm|www.monthlyreview.org/1104amin.htm]]) [The Middle East, henceforth to AND are not deprived of anything!]


Kuwait is a key staging ground for American imperialism in the Persian Gulf and the Middle East – removing troops will solve imperialism in the region.
Economic and Political Weekly 5/1/91 (“Gulf War and Anti-Imperialism in West Asia” <
[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/4398025]]>, JSTOR) [The war in the Persian AND increasingly precarious survival in power.]


The U.S. Imperialism in the Middle East is the root cause of instability and dictatorship there right now.
Paul D’Amato January 2001 – senior editor of the newspaper (“US Intervention in the Middle East: Blood for Oil”[[http://www.isreview.org/issues/15/blood_for_oil.shtml]], International Socialist Review) [U.S. imperialism in the Middle AND against their own ruling classes.]


US imperialism causes Anti-American sentiment around the world, including the Middle East.
Martin Griffiths et al 4/30/2003—Professor at Flinder University
(“Anti-Americanism” <[[http://www.australianreview.net/digest/2003/05/griffiths.html]]>, Australian Review) [Second, the foreign policy of AND of the ‘axis of evil’.]


The imperialist logic converts democracy and liberty into the machine of destruction and justifies destroying humanity – empirical evidence proves.
Santos, Professor of Sociology at the University of Coimbra (Portugal), 2K3
Boaventura de Sousa, April, Bad Subjects, [[http://bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html]] [According to Franz Hinkelammert, the AND machine of horror and destruction.]


Imperialism encourages economic underdevelopment in colonized countries which leads to famine and imperial genocide, India model proves
Mooers 6, (Collin, THE NEW IMPERIALISTS: IDEOLOGIES OF EMPIRE, Chapter 6, Chair of the Department of Politics and School of Public Adminstration at Ryerson University, Toronto) WDK
[But it was not for AND of formal and informal imperialism.65]

Genocide Outweighs every other impact in the round
CARD IN 2K3 [Claudia, prof of philosophy (Ph.D from Harvard), Senior-Fellow at the Institute for Research in the Humanities, “Genocide and Social Death,” Hypatia, vol. 18, no. 1, Winter]
[Genocide is not simply unjust AND and even of its termination.]

===**Democracy**=== 

US presence in Kuwait undermines its democratization process and consequent democratization of the Middle East.
Terril 7, Middle East Specialist for the Strategic Studies Institute, 07 (Andrew, Strategic Studies Institute, “KUWAITI NATIONAL SECURITY AND THE U.S.-KUWAITI STRATEGIC
RELATIONSHIP AFTER SADDAM” [[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub788.pdf]] [The United States also has AND U.S. goals for the region.]


Democracy in Kuwait is key to prevent democratic stagnation in other Middle Eastern states.
Brown 9, a professor of political science and international affairs at George Washington University and a Carnegie Scholar, 09
(Nathan J, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace “Moving Out of Kuwait’s Political Impasse”[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=23320]]) [a successful attempt to sustain AND symbols of stagnation and paralysis.]


Democracy key to free speech
Rogers 06 (James, Renowned Physiologist and author, The Accelerating Pace of Dehumanization, p.5-14)
[Dehumanization: a process that renders AND don’t maintain them, they deteriorate.]

Free speech key to value to life.
Farber 87
Farber, Henry J. Fletcher Professor of Law, University of Minnesota; Visiting Professor, Stanford Law School., Frickey, Associate Professor of Law, University of Minnesota. 1987 (Daniel A. and Philip P., “MELVILLE B. NIMMER SYMPOSIUM: ARTICLE: PRACTICAL REASON AND THE FIRST AMENDMENT” 34 UCLA L. Rev. 1615, UCLA Law Review, LEXIS LAW, rsaenz)
[Although there are some sharp AND view fosters beneficial social change.]

Our impact outweighs extinction ---- censorship is worse than death
Kay, 97 (Jonathan, journalist for New Yorker and editor of the National Post, 1997 ([[@http://www.omnivore.org/jon/orwell/George%20Orwell%27s%20First%20Amendment.html|http://www.omnivore.org/jon/orwell/George%20Orwell's%20First%20Amendment.html]]) [Since total outward conformity is AND the shadow of this struggle.]


Free speech is the biggest impact in all frameworks.
Solum 00 Professor of Law and William M. Rains Fellow, Loyola Law School. B.A. 1981, University of California, Los Angeles; J.D. 1984, Harvard Law School, 2000 (Lawrence B.; refers to Steven H. Shiffrin, Professor of Law, Cornell Law School. B.A. 1963, Loyola Marymount University; M.A. 1964, San Fernando Valley State College; J.D. 1975, Loyola Law School, “BOOK REVIEW: THE VALUE OF DISSENT”, 85 Cornell L. Rev. 859, Cornell Law Review, LEXIS LAW, rsaenz)
[Shiffrin might resist this inquiry AND speech with which Shiffrin agrees.]

Every violation of free speech must be rejected (Tag has been nearly the same, we read it a but differently in one of the rounds)
Bunker, Ph.D. and Professor of Journalism at the University of Alabama, 2001 (Matthew D., “Critiquing free speech : First Amendment theory and the challenge of interdisciplinarity,” p 11-14)
[Unlike the largely instrumental theories AND view might be to some] 

===**Framework**=== 

The only thing we disclose on framework is that we defend that Deontology outweighs Utilitarianism.

==Condo <3 KK== 


=<span style="font-size: 110%;">Neg</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 110%;">General</span>== 

===Wipeout (jk)=== 
===T Presence=Soldiers (Not Dogs)=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Interpretation: 1.) Presence is a group of soldiers that are stationed in a particular place. Oxford English Dictionary 2008 [</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Compact Oxford English Dictionary of Current English; Third edition revised; Revised Edition Oxford Dictionaries, June 2008; http://www.askoxford.com/concise_oed/presence?view=uk]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">[</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;"> Presence: **<span class="Underline">A group of soldiers or AND </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">a presence in the region.]</span>

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">T Bases</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Interpretation: Military presence should be defined as US bases</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Meernik 94 </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Dr. James Meernik is Professor of Political Science at the University of North Texas and Associate Editor of International Studies Quarterly. He is also Chair of the Department of Political Science. Dr. Meernik specializes in research on U.S. foreign policy and international criminal tribunals. His research has been published in International Studies Quarterly, the Journal of Politics, Political Research Quarterly, Journal of Peace Research, Conflict Management and Peace Science, Journal of Conflict Resolution, International Criminal Law Review, and the American Journal of Political Science. He is also author of The Political Use of Foreign Military in U.S. Foreign Policy (Ashgate Press) and co-editor of Conflict Prevention and Peace Building in Post War Societies, with Professor T. David Mason (Routledge Press). Dr. Meernik received his Ph.D. in Political Science from Michigan State University in 1992.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Presidential Decision Making and the Political Use of Military Force Author(s): James Meernik Source: International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 38, No. 1 (Mar., 1994), pp. 121-138 Published by: Blackwell Publishing on behalf of The International Studies Association Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2600874]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[Nations possess a multitude of AND or (3) a prior use of force.]</span>

===ASPEC=== 


A. Intepretation: United States federal government refers to the three branches of the federal government. 
<span class="cite">US Legal, No Date</span> (“United States Federal Government Law and Legal Definition,” http://definitions.uslegal.com/u/united-states-federal-government/)
[<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">The United States Federal Government AND </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">States or to the people.]</span>



===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Midterms DA</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Uniqueness: The latest polls show that Dems have only a 20% chance of losing 10 or more seats in the Senate. This puts them on the brink—they will keep it now but it is close.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[Nate Silver, Statistician, journalist, one of Time Magazine’s 2009 list of the World’s 100 Most Influential People, predicted 49 of 50 states in the 2008 Presidential election, Writer for the New York Times currently; “New Forecast Shows Democrats Losing 6 to 7 Senate Seats”; 8/25/2010; [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/08/25/new-forecast-shows-democrats-losing-6-to-7-senate-seats/]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [The Democratic majority is in AND relatively few undecided voters remain.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Link: Strong stance on foreign policy is a key issue in 2010 midterms—looking weak will draw more attacks from the GOP. Wallsten, 2009 (Peter is a staff writer at the Los Angeles Times, “GOP targets Obama's foreign policy”, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2009/oct/02/nation/na-iran-politics2]] ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[WASHINGTON — As he embraces direct talks AND White House bid in 2012.]</span>

====<span style="font-size: 110%;">Climate Scenario</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Internal Link: [[#_Toc140004381]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[[#_Toc140004382]][[http://www.newsmax.com/Newsfront/inhofe-obama-amnesty-immigration/2010/07/01/id/363634]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [Regarding cap and trade, meanwhile AND pass it after the midterms]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Impact: Cap and trade will stimulate the economy and prevents global warming.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[[#_Toc140004339]][[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/04/business/04view.html?_r=1&src=busln]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [Another useful measure would be AND are committed to solving it.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Global Warming risks extinction of the planet</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Tickell, 8-11-2008 , Climate Researcher</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">(Oliver, The Gaurdian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [We need to get prepared AND towards a similar hothouse Earth.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Powell 2K</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">(Corey S. Powell, Adjunct professor of Science Journalism at NYU's Science and Environmental Reporting Program; spent eight years on the Board of Editors at Scientific American; worked at Physics Today and at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center where he assisted in the testing of gamma-ray telescopes, October 2000, Discover, Vol. 21, No. 10, 20 Ways the World Could End Swept away)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [The Earth is getting warmer AND exactly the tipping point lies.]</span>

====<span style="font-size: 110%;">Corporate Oversight Scenario</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 110%;"> 3. Republican win means no oversight of corporations</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Greg Sargent June 21, 2010 Washington Post “Darrell Issa: If GOP wins House, corporate America can breathe easy – UPDATED” http://voices.washingtonpost.com/plum-line/2010/06/darrell_issa_if_gop_wins_house.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [As you know, Democrats are AND go easier on big corporations.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;"> 4. Lack of oversight leads to economic collapse</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Evan Bayh (former U.S. Senator from Indiana) 03/01/2010 “Time to prevent future collapse is now” Politico Retrieved on 06/24/2010 from http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0210/33661.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [It has been more than AND can prevent a future collapse.]</span>

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Neocleous K 1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 110%;">The concept of security is a social construct. Claims of war and conflict create a false dichotomy between the evil “them” and the good “us” ignoring our role in provoking the aggression. The social context of realist security discourse outwesighs affirmative advantage claims.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">David Grondin, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 2004, (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[Approaches that deconstruct theoretical practices AND conditions of existence are generated18.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Security threats are created through acts of interpretation—representations enable securitizing actions</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Mutimer 2000 [David, associate professor of political science at York University and Deputy Director of the Center for International and Security Studies, The Weapons State//, pg 16-17]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [A further point is to AND to the problem of proliferation.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Constructing threats necessitates an other to fear and respond to</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Lipschutz 95- Professor of Politics and Associate Director of the Center for Global, International and Regional Studies at the UCSC ( Ronnie D. Lipshutz: On Security Pg. 8-9 1995)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [Conceptualizations of security-from which AND the positive potential of difference.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Securitization is a precondition to genocide- their advantage descriptions will be used to justify massive violence</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Karsten Friis, UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, 2k [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” [[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [The problem with societal securitization AND where truth is never questioned.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">The Alternative is to Vote Negative to reject the securitization of the 1AC – this opens up space for emancipatory political engagement more likely to deal with real world problems</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Mark Neocleous, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel Univ ‘8 [Critique of Security, 185-6]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [The only way out of AND enough to return the gift."' ]</span>

====1NC Social Defence K (GFCA/Woodward)==== 
====<span style="font-size: 110%;">AT: Perms</span>==== 

====<span style="font-size: 110%;">Role of the Ballot</span>==== 

====<span style="font-size: 110%;">Discourse First</span>==== 

====<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Link: Environment</span>==== 
====<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Link: North Korea</span>==== 
====<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Link: Multilateralism</span>==== 
====<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Link: War Between States</span>==== 


===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Appropriat</span><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 23px;">ions CP</span>=== 


<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The United States Congress through the House of Representatives should end any and all appropriations for operations in _. </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Contention One is Competition </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">CP competes through: </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">1) A different actor </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">2) an Effectual method of withdrawal </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Contention Two is Solvency </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Ending funding precipitates withdrawal – only check Congress has on war powers </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Rosen, ‘7, “In Wartime, Who Has the Power?”, (Legal Analyst for the New York Times and CNN) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[Jeffrey, http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/04/weekinreview/04rosen.html?_r=4&pagewanted=all] </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[Legal scholars — both critics and AND Legal scholars — both critics and how the war is conducted.] </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Congress using the funding powers unilaterally is the clearest way to check presidential actions </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Will, ‘7, “Congress’s Unused War Powers”, (ABC News Pulitzer-Prize Winning Journalist, PhD Princeton of Journalism) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[George, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/11/02/AR2007110201785_pf.html] </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[While legislators try to leash AND will merit its current marginalization.] </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This is key for Separation of Powers – empirical proof </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Harvard Law Review, ‘6, “Recapturing the War Power”, (Issue 119, April 2006, ‘Notes’) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[http://www.harvardlawreview.org/issues/119/april06/notes/war_power.pdf, 10-11] </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[The Constitution adopts a similar AND continue a national military engagement.59] </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Lack of separation of powers causes nuclear war </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Forrester, ’89, “Presidential Wars in the Nuclear Age: An Unresolved Problem”, (Professor @Hastings College of Law) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[The George Washington Law Review Volume 636 ] </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[On the basis of this report AND the making of presidential wars.] </span></span>



===Consult NATO CP=== 


<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">TEXT: </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The United States Federal Government will engage prior, genuine, and binding consultation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization defense planning committee implement a withdrawal of dogs from Afghanistan. </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Observation one: Competition </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">1. Not topical </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">2. The CP tests the unilateral nature of the plan. It checks any extra topical affirmative plan plans and increases educational discussion. </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Observation two: Solvency </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">1. The CP solves 100% of case – the end result of consultation solves all the 1AC. </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">NATO supports the U.S. and will back its decisions </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Davies 09 (8/1/09 Anne, Brisbane Times, “NATO backs Obama before meeting with generals”, http://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/nato-backs-obama-before-meeting-with-generals-20090930-gcqq.html MEF) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[The meeting with General Petraeus, the AND the way,'' Mr Obama said.] </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama is acting unilaterally now- killing relations </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Wittes and Goldsmith 09 – *Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institute/teaches at Harvard Law School and **Assistant Attorney-General in the Bush administration (Benjamin and Jack, “Will Obama Follow Bush Or FDR?”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/06/28/ AR2009062802288.html?hpid=opinionsbox1, 6/29/09) CS </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[Today, President Obama faces much AND dares the courts to say no. ] </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">2. Only the genuine process of consultation reaffirms allied support for US policies </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Kohn 08 - Richard H. Kohn, Professor of History at the University of North Carolina (Winter 2008, “Coming Soon: A Crisis in Civil-Military Relations,” World Affairs, online: http://www.worldaffairsjournal.org/articles/2008-Winter/full-civil-military.html) CS </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[The problem here is not the AND born when he ruled the Pentagon.] </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Observation three: Net Benefit </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">1. Genuine prior consultation with NATO over major foreign policy decisions prevent a fracturing of the alliance. </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Gordon 04 - Senior fellow in foreign policy studies and director of the Centre on the United States and Europe at the Brookings Institution in Washington, DC, the US Senate confirmed Philip Gordon as assistant secretary of state for Europe and Eurasian affairs ( June 24, 2004, Philip, “LETTER TO EUROPE”, http://www.brookings.edu/views/articles/gordon/20040701.pdf, SJ) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[What we need is a “new deal AND obligations to the global community.] </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">2. Collapse of the alliance lead to Nuclear War </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Brzezinski 09 - former U.S. National Security Adviser and current professor at the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University. (September/October 2009 Zbigniew, Foreign Affairs, An Agenda for NATO, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/65240/zbigniew-brzezinski/an-agenda-for-nato MEF) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[Visible on the horizon but AND overwhelmingly a U.S. responsibility.] </span></span>


===Consult the Motherland CP=== 


<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Text: The United States federal government should propose that it [INSERT PLAN] </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">to the Russian Federation for binding consultation. The United States should support the proposal during consultation and abide by the result of consultation. We’ll clarify. </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Observation one is competition – </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">1. Not topical: The CP violates the term “resolved” which implies a definite course of action. The CP tests the definitive and immediate nature of the plan. Any permutation makes the plan conditional and severs the definite and immediate nature of the plane text. This is a voting issue. </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">2. The CP tests the unilateral nature of the plan. It checks any extra topical affirmative plan plans and increases educational discussion. </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Observation two is the net benefit – </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">CONSULTATION OVER MILITARY IS KEY TO THE NATO-RUSSIA COUNCIL AND U.S.-RUSSIAN RELATIONS </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">VERSHBOW AND BURNS 04 (Alexander, US ambassador to Russia, R. Nicholas, US ambassador to NATO, Izvestia, http://www.usembassy.ru/embassy/oped.php?record_id=11) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[Finally, the NATO-Russia Council provides AND time in the last half-century.] </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">A strong NRC is key to key to preventing arctic territorial disputes </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Lisken, Alexander, Staff Writer for Ria Novosti, A Leading Russian News Source, 09 </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">(“ U.S. analyst says NATO-Russia Council ideal for Arctic talks”, http://en.rian.ru/world/20090527/155103313.html) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> [MOSCOW, May 27 (RIA Novosti) - A leading U.S. analyst has said AND a nuclear test by North Korea.] </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Left unchecked, these disputes lead to a US-Russia war </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Zellen, 07- Barry, Security Innovator, “The Polar Show Down: As the Arctic's ice begins to melt, a new race for its undersea resources begins” August 23, 2007 http://securityinnovator.com/index.php?articleID=12387§ionID=43 </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[In response to Russia’s aggressive AND over the next 20 years.”] </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Extinction? </span></span>


===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Politics</span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 110%;">SKFTA--Johns Creek</span>==== 
====<span style="font-size: 110%;">START--Ohio Valley</span>==== 

==<span style="font-size: 110%;">Afghanistan</span>== 

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">TAPI Pipeline DA</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 110%;">1. TAPI construction will happen – despite geopolitical and religious tension, there is support and cooperation now</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Foster ‘10</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> John Foster, energy economist with worldwide experience in energy and development. He has held posts with the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, British Petroleum and Petro-Canada, “Afghanistan, Energy Geopolitics and the TAPI Pipeline,” Global Research, March 25, 2010, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=18329</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [At the time, the Taliban AND established to oversee project development.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">2. US military presence ensures TAPI construction which is key to offset Iranian resource expansion</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Sullivan ‘09</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Corwin Sullivan, “America, a Gas Pipeline Called TAPI, and Afghanistan,” August 14, 2009, The Canada’s World Blog, http://canadasworld.wordpress.com/2009/08/14/america-a-gas-pipeline-called-tapi-and-afghanistan/</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [In the early days of the AND economic damage on an enemy.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">3. IPI solidifies Iranian leverage over Central Asia, emboldening Iran to proliferate and crushes Middle East stability</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Cohen ET AL, Curtis, and Graham ’08 Ariel Cohen, Ph.D., is Senior Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies; Lisa Curtis is Senior Research Fellow for South Asia in the Asian Studies Center; and Owen Graham is a Research Assistant in the Allison Center at The Heritage Foundation, No. 2139, May 30, 2008, “The Proposed Iran–Pakistan–India Gas Pipeline: An Unacceptable Risk to Regional Security,” Executive Summary Backgrounder – Heritage Foundation, [[http://www.gees.org/documentos/Documen-03020.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [Iran’s support of terrorism, hostile AND natural gas through the IPI.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">4. Iranian proliferation causes Middle East proliferation and war</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Nye ‘06</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Professor of International Politics at Harvard [Joseph S. Nye, a former Assistant US Secretary of Defense under President Clinton, “Should Iran Be Attacked?,” Monday , 29 May 2006, pg. [[http://www.turkishweekly.net/comments.php?id=2105]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">[</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"><<Would an Iranian bomb really be AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">weapons technology to terrorist groups.>>]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">5. Middle East war leads to extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Steinbach ‘02</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> John, March 3, Center for research on Globalization, [[@http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2002/03/00_steinbach_israeli-wmd.htm]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [As Israeli society becomes more AND could trigger a world conflagration."]</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 23px;">**Drones DA**</span>


===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Afghan Politics DA</span>=== 

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Rare Earth Minerals DA</span>=== 

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">PRT CP</span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 110%;">2NC: Disease Outweighs</span>==== 

===<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">Iran DA</span>=== 

===Bulgarian Relations DA (Woodward)=== 

===Russia DA (Woodward)=== 

===ISPEC (Woodward)=== 


===<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">Heg Defense</span>=== 
===<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">Pakistan Defense</span>=== 
===<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">Leadership Turn</span>=== 

==<span style="font-size: 110%;">Iraq</span>== 

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Oil DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 110%;"> 1. Oil prices are massively declining now</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Gue, Bachelor’s degree in economics and management and master’s degree in finance at U of London, co-editor of The Partnership, 5-26-2010 (Elliot, “Limited Downside for Oil Prices”, </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> http://www.investingdaily.com/tes/17349/limited-downside-for-oil-prices.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [On a closing basis, oil AND growth over the summer months.]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;"> 2. US Withdrawal Decreases Oil Production and would raise world oil prices</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Carafino (Deputy Director The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Inst. for International Studies )and Phillips (James Phillips is the Senior Research Fellow for Middle Eastern Affairs at the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation) 2006</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> James and James, Heritage Foundation Executive Memorandum 1012, October 5</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2006/10/The-Dangerous-Consequences-of-Cutting-and-Running-in-Iraq DA: 7/15/10</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [Growing anarchy in Iraq and AND state in the oil-rich south.]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;"> 3. Increase in oil prices would end the current economic recovery and cause a global financial crisis</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Marconi ’09 “Did High Oil Prices cause the Financial Crash?” By GIUSEPPE MARCONI for OIL-PRICE.NET, 2009/11/18; http://www.oil-price.net/en/articles/did-high-oil-prices-cause-financial-crash.php</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Date Accessed: July 14, 2010 </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [This year, Professor James Hamilton AND currently trying to recover from]</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;"> 4. Impact: Econ collapse causes power vacuum multiple nuclear wars, terrorism, and extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Aaron L. Friedberg (professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton University, served from 2003 to 2005 in the office of the Vice President of the United States as deputy assistant for national-security affairs and director of policy planning. PhD in Politics from Harvard) and Gabriel Schoenfeld (senior fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington DC and a resident scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton) October 21, 2008 “The Dangers of a Diminished America” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=rss_opinion_main</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"> [Then there are the dolorous AND internal travails with external adventures.]</span>


==<span style="font-size: 110%;">Japan</span>== 

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Re-Arm</span>=== 

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">BMD T</span>=== 

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Detterence</span>=== 

===<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">In=Throughout</span>=== 

===<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">Futenma Substantial</span>=== 

===<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">Rape CP</span>=== 

===<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">Alliance CP</span>=== 

==PMC== 

===T Its=== 

===Regulation CP=== 

===PMCs Good Turns=== 

==<span style="font-size: 110%;">South Korea</span>== 

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Econ</span>=== 

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Relations</span>=== 

===<span style="font-size: 110%;">T vs. Invade North Korea</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Presence in South Korea is both troops and bases, Baker 4</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;"> Extra T Bad</span>

==<span style="font-size: 110%;">TNWs</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 110%;">T vs. TNWs</span>=== 

==<span style="font-size: 110%;">K Affs</span>== 
===Util Frontline=== 

===USFG T=== 
===Alt Causes to K Affs=== 





<span style="font-size: 110%;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] </span>