[[toc]]
=Disadvantages= 
Case-specific DAs are on the Case Negs Page


==Politics== 

===Mid-Terms---Wake Forest and GDS=== 

**Democrats retain the House --- Best Models are based on views of the economy and Obama, not voter preference polls**
Mark **Blumenthal, 9/6/2010** [Editor and Publisher of Pollser.com, “Political Scientists Forecast Big Losses For Democrats”, http://www.pollster.com/blogs/political_scientists_forecast.php]
Democrats currently hold...Bob Erikson argued, "by [the] fundamentals."

**Obama’s focus on the economy is saving the democratic majority**
E.J. **Dionne, 9/9/2010** [Washington Post Writer, “It's Not Over Till It's Over”, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2010/09/09/its_not_over_till_its_over_107077.html]
WASHINGTON -- President Obama decided this week...in Milwaukee and Cleveland.

**Foreign policy distractions cause Democrats to lose more seats**
**IISS 10** (International Institute for Security Studies, Obama's presidency bolstered by political success, Strategic Comments, InformaWorld)
Thus, while Obama might...than triumphal imperiousness.

**GOP House majority leads to partial government shutdown – collapses the economy**
Brian **Beutler, 9/2/2010** [Talking Points Memo, “The 'Un-American' Results If Republicans Really Force A Government Shutdown”, http://tpmdc.talkingpointsmemo.com/2010/09/un-american----what-will-happen-if-republicans-force-a-government-shutdown.php#more]
If Republicans win one or both houses of...system," Shalala said.

**Nuclear war**
**Mead 9** – Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2
If current market turmoil seriously damaged...The United States may not, yet, decline, but, if we can't get the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.

===Federal Board Confirmation---Octos of GDS=== 

**Republicans have used stalling tactics to delay three nominees for the Federal Reserve – Obama pushing means they will be confirmed now – Shifts fed Policy**
Jonathon **Cohn, 8/6/2010** [The New Republic, “Why You Should Care About Peter Diamond”, http://www.tnr.com/blog/jonathan-cohn/76853/why-you-should-care-about-peter-diamond]
Diamond is one of President Obama's three...could have. Nobody listened. Maybe now they will.

**Changes in Military Strategy fill the Congressional schedule with Hearings and distract Obama**
Karen **DeYoung, 9** [12/3/2009,Washington Post, “Lawmakers scrutinize new Afghan strategy”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/12/02/AR2009120201013_pf.html]
Lawmakers from both parties searched...our allies and our vital interests."

**Delay prevents confirmation**
Daniel **Indiviglio, 9/15/2010** [The Atlantic, “The Fed Vacancies Are Dangerous, but Senators Aren't Concerned”, http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2010/09/the-fed-vacancies-are-dangerous-but-senators-arent-concerned/63009/]
The Senate is just too busy. Too busy, it...bills they bicker over.

**Deflation now – New nominees prevent a Depression**
William **Greider, 7/30/2010** [The Nation, “Deflation, Not Deficit, Is the Real Threat”, http://www.thenation.com/article/38063/deflation-not-deficit-real-threat]
The economic specter stalking Barack...cannot get out of the ditch.

**Confirmation shifts the Fed to Quantitative Easing – Key to the economy**
Tyler **Cowen, 9/18/2010** [Professor of Economics at George Mason University, “Can the Fed Offer a Reason to Cheer?”, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/19/business/economy/19view.html?_r=1&ref=todayspaper]
Optimism, or lack thereof, may seem the province of psychology...Fed officials have to believe that Congress is firmly on their side.

**Nuclear war**
**Mead 9** – Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2
If current market turmoil seriously damaged the...The United States may not, yet, decline, but, if we can't get the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.

===Chinese Tariffs Bad---St. Marks=== 

**China Tariffs won’t pass the Senate due to administration opposition**
Keith **Fitz-Gerald, 10/3/2010** [Keith Fitz-Gerald is a Contributing Editor to Money Morning (http://www.moneymorning.com/), as well as Investment Director of the Money Map Report and editor of the New China Trader. “House China Tariff Bill Will Take America Down the Wrong Road”, http://seekingalpha.com/article/228087-house-china-tariff-bill-will-take-america-down-the-wrong-road?source=feed]
The U.S. House of Representatives this...Washington could do right now.

**Weak foreign policy that is seen as appeasing undemocratic regimes would force Obama to support a harder line on China’s currency – That’s less successful at encouraging revaluation that the current multilateral approach**
Charles **Kupchan, 4/15/2010** [Senior Fellow for Europe Studies, Council on Foreign Relations, “Is China a Currency Manipulator?”, http://www.cfr.org/publication/21902/is_china_a_currency_manipulator.html]
The Obama administration...abroad and savvy politics at home.

**China will revalue now --- Tariffs cause global recession**
Mark **Zandi, 10/10/2010** [Chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, “What to do about China's currency?”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/10/08/AR2010100805677.html?hpid=opinionsbox1]
In an ideal world, China would allow...merits, not because of threats.

**Nuclear war**
**Mead 9** – Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2
If current market turmoil seriously damaged...The United States may not, yet, decline, but, if we can't get the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.

===DADT---Iowa Caucus=== 

**DADT will pass—Obama’s pushing it through**
**Youngman, 10/28** (Sam, 10/28/10, “Obama tells bloggers he has a lame-duck strategy to end DADT”, http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/126201-obama-tells-bloggers-he-has-a-lame-duck-strategy-to-end-dadt, KONTOPOULOS)
President Obama told a small group...before the end of the year."

**Political Capital is key**
Joe **Garofoli, 10** [San Francisco Chronicle, “LGBT supporters: Obama needs to do more than call for a repeal of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell", http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/blogs/nov05election/detail?entry_id=56173]
Word is leaking out that...as the lead advocate.

**DADT discharges troops who are mission critical --- breaking the military**
US **Newswire** 2-11-**2005**
Despite this year's historic low, "Don't Ask Don't Tell"...equality are not welcome in the military.

**Readiness deters military aggression and preserves hardpower**
Jack **Spencer**, Policy Analyst at Heritage, **2000** Heritage Foundation Reports, Lexis
The evidence indicates that the U.S. armed...thereby preserving peace.

**Nuclear war**
**Lieber, 05**- Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown University (Robert J., The American Era: Power and Strategy for the 21st Century, p. 53-54)
Withdrawal from foreign...a few fortified enclaves."2

===START---Michigan=== 

**START will pass—Obama’s pushing it**
**Washington Times, 11/4** (11/4/10, “Lame ducks urged to pass New START”, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/nov/4/obama-reiterates-call-for-arms-control-treaty-with/?page=1, KONTOPOULOS)
President Obama is pressing for...lame-duck session.

**Contentious fights will tank START – Obama needs his political capital in order to get it through**
**Kitfield, 09** (Wars, political battles complicate obama effort to prevent spread of nuclear weapons, Global Security Newswire, p. http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20091009_8675.php)
Strobe Talbott, president of the Brookings Institution...before they are traded off against each other."

**START prevents US – Russian nuclear war**
**Isaacs, 12/4/2009** (John – executive director of the center for arms control and non-proliferation, p.
http://www.armscontrolcenter.org/policy/nuclearweapons/articles/rebuttals_to_arguments_against_new_start/)
Response: First, it is not necessarily...A new arms control treaty will reduce this risk.

===START---Ohio Valley=== 

**START will pass- It’s on the top of the docket-**
**Weisman and Meckler 12/1** (Jonathon, Washington post staff writer, Laura, white house reporter for WSJ “GOP Softens Stance on Treaty,” 2010, WSJ, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704679204575646730061039638.html?mod=igoogle_wsj_gadgv1&)
President Barack Obama on Tuesday...verifiable treaty covering tactical nuclear weapons and other issues as soon as New START is ratified.

**Political Capital is key-**
**BBC News ‘10** (April 9, 2010, “Russian pundit questions outlook for US ratification of new arms cuts deal,“ Lexis)
"There will be a very serious...good connections in the Senate".

**START prevents US – Russian nuclear war**
**Isaacs, 12/4/2009** (John – executive director of the center for arms control and non-proliferation, p.
http://www.armscontrolcenter.org/policy/nuclearweapons/articles/rebuttals_to_arguments_against_new_start/)
Response: First, it is not necessarily the case that Russia...A new arms control treaty will reduce this risk.

===Unemployment Benefits---Doubles of Ohio Valley=== 

**Obama is pushing unemployment benefits now—that’s critical to prevent job loss and save the economy**
**Wolf, 12/2** (12/2/10, “Obama team presses to extend jobless benefits, tax credits”, http://content.usatoday.com/communities/theoval/post/2010/12/obama-team-presses-to-extend-unemployment-benefits/1, KONTOPOULOS)
The White House is putting a full-court press on...coverage immediately, and about 7 million by the end of next year.

**Nuclear war**
**Mead, 09** – Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2
If current market turmoil seriously damaged the...but, if we can't get the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.

===DADT---Blake=== 

**Sufficient time for DADT now – Vote is scheduled for Sunday**
Brian **Beutler**, **12/16/2010** [Talking Points Memo, “After Spending Bill Implodes, Reid Schedules Vote on DADT Repeal”, http://tpmdc.talkingpointsmemo.com/2010/12/after-spending-bill-implodes-reid-schedules-vote-on-dadt-repeal.php?ref=fpa]
On Thursday night, Senate Republicans...will continue debating tomorrow and again next week.

**Any vote will succeed – It is only a question if there is enough time – The plan expands the legislative calendar**
Evan **McMorris-Santoro, 12/16/2010** [Talking Points Memo, “Is The White House Stalling DADT Repeal In The Senate?”, http://tpmdc.talkingpointsmemo.com/2010/12/is-the-white-house-stalling-dadt-repeal-in-the-senate.php?ref=fpb]
At this point, with more...and keeping the status quo.

**DADT discharges troops who are mission critical --- breaking the military**
**US Newswire** 2-11-**2005**
Despite this year's historic low, "Don't Ask Don't Tell" ...who value constitutional equality are not welcome in the military.

**Readiness deters military aggression and preserves hardpower**
Jack **Spencer**, Policy Analyst at Heritage, **2000** Heritage Foundation Reports, Lexis
The evidence indicates that the U.S....thereby preserving peace.

**Nuclear War**
**Kagan, 7** (Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, web)
The jostling for status...make them more catastrophic.

===Debt Ceiling---MBA=== 

**Debt ceiling will be raised now**
Paul **McMorrow, 1/7/2011** [Boston Globe, “A lot of bark, but little bite”, http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2011/01/07/a_lot_of_bark_but_little_bite/]
THE HOUSE’S new...to have to deal with it as adults.’’

**But political capital is key – Failure collapses the economy**
Kenneth **Schortgen, 1/2/2011** [Finance Writer for the Examiner, “Both Congress and the President begin the battle over the debt ceiling”, http://www.examiner.com/finance-examiner-in-national/both-congress-and-the-president-begin-the-battle-on-the-debt-ceiling]
As the new 112th Congress begins...most in this 'game of chicken'?

**Nuclear war**
**Mead 9** – Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2
If current market turmoil..economy back on track, we may still have to fight.

==Russia== 

===1NC=== 

**Russia is seeking to expand—the plan changes US force posture ensuring a Russian first strike**
**Chandler, 08** – Ph.D. in Political Science, Former Political Strategist with the Air Force, Defense Department of the CIA (Robert, Shadow World: Resurgent Russia, the Global New Left, and Radical Islam, Google Books, p. 59-61, KONTOPOULOS)
RUSSIA LOOMS AS A major global...political and economic systems inside the Soviet Union to strengthen its long-term competition with the West.

**Extinction**
**Bostrum, 02** (Nick – professor of philosophy at Oxford and winner of the Gannon Award, Existential Risks, Journal of Evolution and Technology, p. http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)
A much greater existential risk...will encounter in the 21st century.

===2NC Overview=== 

**Also turns case—expansionist Russia makes their impacts inevitable**
**Nyquist, 06** – Geopolitical Columnist for Financial Sense Online (J.R., 6/23/09, “REFUSING TO FACE REALITY”, http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2006/0623.html, KONTOPOULOS)
Behind Washington’s infighting...Chinese or Russian leaders’ who already possess untold numbers of WMDs. 

===2NC Economy Module=== 

**Nukes are used in 30 minutes—also destroys the economy**
**Helfand and Pastore, 09** (Ira and John, 2009, both past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility) “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html)
President Obama and Russian President...nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today.

===2NC Infiltration Module=== 

**Soviet Union will infiltrate the US and destroy it from the inside—also destroys freedom**
**Levy, 08** (Janet, 11/28/08, “Shadow World: Resurgent Russia, The Global New Left, and Radical Islam”, http://www.americanthinker.com/2008/11/shadow_world_resurgent_russia.html, KONTOPOULOS)
The fall of the Soviet Union in 1991...democracy or veer precipitously toward autocracy or theocracy.

**Extinction**
**Levy, 08** (Janet, 11/28/08, “Shadow World: Resurgent Russia, The Global New Left, and Radical Islam”, http://www.americanthinker.com/2008/11/shadow_world_resurgent_russia.html, KONTOPOULOS)
The United States is at a critical juncture in its history...heeded if we are to survive.

**Loss of liberty is a d-rule**
**Petro, 74** – Professor of Law at Wake Forest University (Sylvester, Spring 1974, Toledo Law Review)
However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest Hemingway...resisted with undying spirit.

===2NC Now Key for Deterring Them=== 

**Now is key—sets the stage**
**Shuster, 4/23** (Simon, 4/23/10, “As Russia Reasserts Its Sphere of Influence, the U.S. Makes No Objection”, http://georgiandaily.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=18316&Itemid=132, KONTOPOULOS)
Five years ago in the former Soviet Union...is reciprocating — much to Saakashvili's chagrin.

===2NC Deterrence Now/Generic Withdrawal Link=== 

**Russia is hypernationalist—current military posture is critical to deter them**
**Kuhner, 09** – President of the Edmund Burke Institute, a Washington-based think tank (Jeffrey T., “Rebirth of an old scourge”, The Washington Times, November 8 2009, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2009/nov/8/rebirth-of-an-old-scourge/?page=1, KONTOPOULOS)
Communism is alive and well...That lives on. Call it Cold War 2.0.

**The only thing currently deterring Russia is our military presence**
**Griffing, 09** – Northrop Gumman’s Coproate Lead Executive with responsibility for the US Navy and US Marine Corps programs (John, “The Perestroika Deception”, American Thinker, September 25th 2009, http://www.americanthinker.com/2009/09/the_perestroika_deception.html, KONTOPOULOS)
The Cold War is over and Communism is a non-issue...allies exposed to Russian aggression. 

===2NC Afghanistan Link=== 

**Troops in Afghanistan stops Russian expansionism**
**Ross, 09** – Attorney and President of Institute for Democracy Studies (Alfred, 7/31/09, “The Winners Are Grinners: US Uses Afghan War To Besiege Russia At Ferocious Pace”, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=14592, KONTOPOULOS)
On the “hard power” military front...right to inspect any plane is irrelevant – any important “contraband” going into Af-Pak can easily be flown in from Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan or via southern routes.

**Withdrawal causes Russian expansionism**
**Hahn, 09** – Ph.D., Senior Researcher for the Center for Terrorism and Intelligence Studies (Gordon M., 2009, “US-Russian Relations and The War Against Jihadism”, The Century Foundation, p. 7-9, KONTOPOULOS) PDF
However, there is some space...Georgia), which can only benefit the region’s jihadists.6

**Withdrawing from Afghanistan cedes to Russia’s sphere of influence and causes expansionism**
**Cohen, 09** – Senior Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation, Ph.D. (Ariel, 3/12/09, “How the Obama Administration Should Deal with Russia's Revisionist Foreign Policy”, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2009/03/How-the-Obama-Administration-Should-Deal-with-Russias-Revisionist-Foreign-Policy, KONTOPOULOS)
Russia is and will remain one of the most significant foreign..detrimental to U.S. national security interests.




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]