[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

Feathers and fools affirmative 

We begin the 1AC reading from the book "Feathers and Fools" by Mem Fox.

**<span style="color: black;">And, This year the resolution</span> “Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and police presence in South Korea, Japan, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Iraq, and Turkey”** **<span style="color: black;">asks us to address </span>****<span style="color: black;">US military dominance, hegemonic power, and war itself</span>****<span style="color: black;">, but in order to </span>****<span style="color: black;">understand how to answer the resolution, </span>****<span style="color: black;">we must first </span>****<span style="color: black;">engage in critical literacy, </span>****an instructional approach that advocates the adoption of** critical **perspectives** **in texts, such as Mem Fox’s //Feathers and Fools//. This engages us in new forms of intellectual criticism that gives us the knowledge and power to understand,** **<span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times;">challenge and revolt against existing problematic structures, such as inequality, oppression, or in //Feathers and Fools// case, war.</span>**
<span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Glenn L.</span><span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times;"> **Devoogd (**</span><span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Candidate for Board Member; Fresno Unified School District; Trustee Area 7</span>**<span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times;">) </span>**<span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Nov. 5, 20</span>**<span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times;">02 </span>**
**<span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times;">(</span>**<span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.smartvoter.org/2002/11/05/ca/fr/vote/devoogd_g/paper3.html)</span>
__We grew up believing that everything we read__ .... 
__<span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">both the word and the world. </span>__

<span style="margin-bottom: 14.15pt;">**<span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times;">And, we are the teachers in the context of debate and therefore must educate both one another and the judge in new and different ways. The art of critical literacy has the potential to spark revolution and heighten both education and independent thinking through new ways of learning.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 14.15pt;"><span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Glenn L.</span><span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times;"> **Devoogd (**</span><span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Candidate for Board Member; Fresno Unified School District; Trustee Area 7</span>**<span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times;">) </span>**<span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Nov. 5, 20</span>**<span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times;">02 (</span>**<span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.smartvoter.org/2002/11/05/ca/fr/vote/devoogd_g/paper3.html)</span></span>
We know that __critical literacy is a somewhat developmental process__ ... 
__<span style="background: white; color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">used in all contexts of our lives. </span>__

=Negative= 
Borders K
Van Gogh
Dis-Ad (Usually Allied Prolif)
Counter Plan (Consult NATO)
START DA
Air power DA

Often goes for the K
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]