[[toc]]
[[2010-2011 — Edina (MN) — Vivian Ha & Dustin Meyers-Levy|Main page]]
==AT: K affs== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Util frontline**</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Every life is an end in and of itself – All lives are infinitely valuable, the only ethical option is to maximize the number saved**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharCharCharChar">Cummisky 96</span> (David, professor of philosophy at Bates, “Kantian Consequentialism”, p. 131)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Finally, </span><span style="background-color: silver;">even if one grants that… </span>…<span style="font-size: 6pt;">dignity who are saved, the better.8</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Exclusion is a reason to vote neg – They advocate that the group they save is more important than the rest of humanity – Since all lives are equal, you should treat them that way by protecting the greatest number**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharCharCharChar">Dworkin 77</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Professor of Law and Philosophy at New York University (Ronald 1977, “Taking Rights Seriously” pg 274-5)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span class="CardtextChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The liberal conception of equality sharply limits… …treated with equal concern and respect.</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Extinction destroys all human aspiration – Claims to outweigh it destroy value to life**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharCharCharChar">Schell 82</span> (Jonathan, Visiting professor of liberal studies at Harvard University, “Fate of the Earth”)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">For the generations that now have… …</span><span style="background-color: silver;">future generations</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, and let human life go on.</span>__</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Their moral tunnel vision is complicit with the evil they criticize**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Isaac 2** (Jeffery C, Professor of PolSci @ Indiana-Bloomington, Director - Center for the Study of Democracy and Public Life, PhD from Yale, Dissent Magazine, Vol. 49, Iss. 2, "Ends, Means, and Politics," p. Proquest)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">As a result, the most important political questions… …</span><span class="CardtextChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">And it undermines political effectiveness.</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Utilitarianism is key to morality – Extinction prevents future generation from attaining other values**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Nye 86** (Joseph, PhD PolSci Harvard, Served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, "Nuclear Ethics" pg 45-46)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 22px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">﻿</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CardtextChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Is there any end that could justify a nuclear war… …topic of both prudential and moral reasoning.</span></span></span>


**Dogmatic adherence to principle ensures that their ethic will never be politically useful or change society**

<span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharCharCharChar">Minteer 4</span> **(**Ben, Journal of Agricultural and Environmental Ethics, 17: 131-156, ebsco)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In this paper, we have attempted to… …contributions to these critical public processes. </span>
[[#_Toc122082011]][[#_Toc122081768]][[#_Toc121547559]][[#_Toc121302208]][[#_Toc121281214]][[#_Toc120369335]]
<span class="TagandCiteChar">Utilitarianism is inevitable even in deontological frameworks </span>

<span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharCharCharChar"><span style="color: windowtext;">Green 2</span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt;"> – Assistant Professor Department of Psychology Harvard University (Joshua, November 2002 "The Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Truth About Morality And What To Do About It", 314) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Some people who talk of balancing rights may think… …</span><span class="CardtextChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">esoteric sort of way or covertly consequentialist.</span></span> </span>

**Overriding rights is justified to protect a greater amount of rights**

<span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharCharCharChar">Kateb 92</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – William Nelson Cromwell Professor of Politics Emeritus at Princeton University (George, Cornell University Press; “The Inner Ocean: Individualism and Democratic Culture” pg 12) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">One can even think, against utilitarianism, that any… …also not wrong if they resist being sacrificed. </span>

**Trade-offs are inevitable – Util is the only way to resolve competing moral values**

<span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharCharCharChar">Bailey 97</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (James Wood 1997; “Oxford University Press; “Utilitarianism, institutions, and Justice” pg 9) </span>

<span class="CardtextChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">A consequentialist moral theory can take account of… …i</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">gnore them as if we lived in an ideal world. </span></span>

**Incomplete information about every effected individual makes util the only option for policymakers**

<span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharCharCharChar">Goodin 95</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Professor of Philosophy at the Research School of the Social Sciences at the Australian National University (Robert E., Cambridge University Press, “Utilitarianism As a Public Philosophy” pg 63) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">My larger argument turns on the proposition… …</span><span class="CardtextChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">tailored to peculiarities of individuals or situations.</span></span>



===<span style="line-height: 23px;">Speaking for Others</span>=== 

====1NC==== 

Politicizing Narratives is wrong—the affirmative acts under the guise of political empowerment, they utilize narratives to accomplish their own goals—this is an act of commodification and colonial domination 
Linda Martín __<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alcoff </span></span>__(Department of Philosophy at Syracuse University. “The Problem of Speaking For Others” Cultural Critique Winter 1991-__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">92</span></span>__, pp. 5-32.) [Gunnarsdottir]  

Feminist discourse is not the only site in which… …<span style="font-size: 9pt;">speaking for groups of which one is a member.</span> 

The affirmatives choice to include narratives is an attempt to speak for the oppressed—the choice of narrative exemplifies the affirmatives position of privilege.  
Linda Martín __<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alcoff </span></span>__(Department of Philosophy at Syracuse University. “The Problem of Speaking For Others” Cultural Critique Winter 1991-__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">92</span></span>__, pp. 5-32.) [Gunnarsdottir]  
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">In the examples used above… …that is, free of human interpretation.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">1NR</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
Speaking for others re-inscribes hierarchies and instills patterns of control 

Linda Martín **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alcoff</span></span>__</span>** (Department of Philosophy at Syracuse University. “The Problem of Speaking For Others” Cultural Critique Winter 1991-**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">92</span></span>__</span>**, pp. 5-32.) [Gunnarsdottir] 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The emphasis on effects should not imply… … enable the empowerment of oppressed peoples? </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
Speaking from a position of privilege props up power relations—the speaker relies on the assumption that less privileged cannot speak for them selves 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nontsasa </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: thick;">Nako</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“Possessing the voice of the other: African women and the ‘Crisis of Representation’ in Alice Walker’s possessing Secret of Joy” Jenda: A Journal of Culture and African Women Studies, 20</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: thick;">01</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">) [Gunnarsdottir] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
In her essay, “The Problem of Speaking for Others,” … …__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">that operate in public spaces”</span></span>__ (Ibid).  

The oppressed must speak for themselves—our intervention destroys effective representation 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carole </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: thick;">Fabricant</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (The Johns Hopkins University Press. “Speaking for the Irish Nation: The Drapier, the Bishop, and the Problems of Colonial Representation, 19</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: thick;">99</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">) [Gunnarsdottir] </span>
<span style="font-family: ArialMT,sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;"> </span>
In this situation, acts of representation… …effect within the governing structures of society. 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**A2 Patriarchy**</span>=== 


**Patriarchy is inevitable – even in a universal society, patriarchy will still exist – multiple reasons**
**Goldberg 96** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1282/is_n21_v48/|Nov 11, 1996]]</span>, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/search/?qa=Steven%20Goldberg&tag=content;col1|Steven Goldberg]]</span>, President of Department of Sociology at City College of New York, National Review, “Is patriarchy inevitable? Men rule not because they are told to, but because it is their nature to do so”] </span>

<span style="background-color: yellow;">Men rule</span> not because they… …<span style="background-color: yellow;">specific society has ever been an exception.</span>


**Feminist issues cannot be resolved within masculinised structures- they don’t provide an alternative**
J. Ann **<span class="Author-Date">Tickner</span>** (professor of international relations at USC) 20<span class="Author-Date">0**1**</span>, __Gendering World Politics__. Pp. 119-120.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The tensions and contradictions to which Stienstra… …economic globalization of the late twentieth century."</span>


**The plan is elistist and universalist—disempowers women (vs SoKoPro)**
**KIM** **98** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Yanggongju as an Allegory of the Nation: The representation of working class women in popular and radical texts, </span><span style="color: #000f3f; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Sociology at Wheaton University </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">HYUN SOOK KIM written in Dangerous Gender and Korean Nationalism)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ki</span>__m Yon-ja's testimony was relegated… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">material subjects making their own histories. </span>


===A2 Root Cause=== 

**2. No root cause of war – Mono-causal explanations are oversimplifications**



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Holland 6** (Joshua, “About those real reasons for the invasion of Iraq …” March 20, 2006, Alternet,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.alternet.org/blogs/echochamber/33790/]]</span>)</span>




<span style="font-size: 6pt;">That's because </span><span style="background-color: silver;">there is</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> almost </span><span style="background-color: silver;">never one… …the Middle East would set off the rapture</span>.

**3. The root cause of war is the anarchic nature of the international sphere – States will always compete for power**
**<span class="Heading2Char1">Mearsheimer 1</span>** (Mearsheimer, John J., award-winning Political Scientist at the University of Chicago, “The Tragedy of Great Power Politics” pg. 32-33)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">State Behavior </span><span style="background-color: silver;">Great powers fear each other</span>… <span style="font-size: 6pt;">…not be around for the long haul. </span>

**4. Even if we changed the way we approached international relations, other actors would still be realist**
**Guzzini 98** assistant prof. of polisci and IR at the Central European University <span style="color: black;">(Stefano, "Conclusion: the fragmentation of realism," Realism in International Relations and International Political Economy: The Continuing Story of a Death Foretold, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415144027, p. 235)</span>


<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Third, this last chapter has argued that</span></span> <span class="UnderlinedTextChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">although… …way to tacitly and uncritically reproduce it.</span></span>


**5. Even if they have identified the root cause if instability, it’s irrelevant – There is no alternative to realism**
**Murray 97** prof of politics at the University of Wales Swansea (Alastair J. H., “Part II: Rearticulating and Re-Evaluating Realism,” Reconstructing Realism: Between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics, Keele University Press, ISBN 1853311960, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Net-Library, p. 188-189)

<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Ashley's critique thus boils down to a judgement… …</span></span><span class="UnderlinedTextChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">deliverance, is manifestly unable to provide</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**6. Evolutionary biology proves realism**
<span class="Heading2Char1">**Thayer 4**</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bradley, PhD, Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies of Missouri State University, Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, International and National Security Affairs Senior Analyst at National Institute for Public Policy “Darwin and International Relations, pg. 11-12)</span>


<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In chapter 2, I explain how evolutionary theory… …or contemporary states in international relations. </span>

===A2 Tetlock=== 

<span style="tab-stops: list 13.5pt;"><span class="Underline">**Tetlock flows neg** </span></span>
<span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharCharCharChar">Tetlock 5</span> (Philip, psychologist, “Expert Political Judgment” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.pupress.princeton.edu/chapters/s7959.html]]</span>) 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Chapters 2 and 3 explore correspondence indicators…</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> …thought--their style of reasoning--did matter</span>__. 

===A2 Predictions Bad=== 

**Our being in the world makes some degree of calculation inevitable – Attempts to avoid all calculation reproduce calculability in its worst forms**

<span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharCharCharChar">Derrida 92</span> (Jaques, “The Force of Law: The ‘Mystical Foundation of Authority’”, Deconstruction and the Possibility of Justice, ed: Cornell, Rosenfeld, and Carlson, p. 28-29) 

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">That justice exceeds law and calculation</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">… …the world, for men and for women. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Shortsightedness is what makes life disposable - the techno-strategic logic they indict is that at its worst when we refuse to consider consequences - future orientation is the only way to make better decisions</span>

<span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharCharCharChar">Kurasawa 4</span> (Professor of Sociology, York University of Toronto, Fuyuki, Constellations Volume 11, No 4, 2004) 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">At another level, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">instrumental-strategic forms</span>____…__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> …can enact the work of preventive foresight. </span>

<span class="Underline">Futurism may have flaws but scenario planning by citizens is the best hope we have </span>

<span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharCharCharChar">Kurasawa 4</span> (Professor of Sociology, York University of Toronto, Fuyuki, Constellations Volume 11, No 4, 2004) 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">None of this is to disavow </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the international</span>____…__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> …with us, in the here and now. </span>

Policymakers will inevitably construct threats - Abandoning predictions ensures they will be based on pre-conceived notions instead of sound analysis[[#_Toc122082023]]

<span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharCharCharChar">Fitzsimmons 7</span> (Michael, “The Problem of Uncertainty in Strategic Planning”, Survival, Winter 06/07) 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">But handling even this weaker form of uncertainty… …understood by the decision-makers themselves. </span>

**This turns their offense – Things like the Iraq war were justified by abandoning predictions**

<span class="Heading2CharCharCharCharCharCharCharCharChar">Fitzsimmons 7</span> (Michael, “The Problem of Uncertainty in Strategic Planning”, Survival, Winter 06/07) 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Two days after Shinseki’s testimony, both Rumsfeld and… …rigidity in planning rather than flexibility. </span>


===War on Terror Good=== 


====1NC Card - Old==== 

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**Terrorist ideology is the root cause, not language—only the war on terror solves.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Epstein 05** (Alex, **<span style="font-weight: normal;">analyst at the Ayn Rand Institute, </span>**BA in Philosophy from Duke University, “Fight the Root of Terrorism With Bombs, Not Bread”, San Fransisco Chronicle, 8/14, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.aynrand.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=11243&news_iv_ctrl=1021]]</span>)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In light of the recent suicide bombings in London… …__for our government to attack terrorism at its root__.</span>

====<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC - New</span>==== 



<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">SECOND – the war on terror is good </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Mcinerney and Vallely</span>__**, 2k**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">4</span>__**- (Thomas and Paul, Lt. General USAF (Retired) and Maj. General US Army (Retired), both analysts for Fox News, Endgame: The Blueprint for Victory in the War on Terror, p. 167-8) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">After</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> the axis powers declared war on… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">the Web of Terror have to live without.</span></span> </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">THIRD, terrorists are evil and want to kill us </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Peters</span>__**, 2k**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">4</span>__** - (Ralph, Retired Army Officer, “In Praise of Attrition,” Parameters, Summer) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Trust me. </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">We don’t need discourses. We need</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">encourages the terrorists</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and remaining Baathist gangsters.</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">FOURTH, Terrorism risks extinction </span>


<span style="margin-right: -.75pt;">Harvey **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Gordon</span>__****<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, </span>**Visiting Lecturer, Forensic Psychiatry, Tel Aviv University, “The ‘Suicide’ Bomber: Is It a Psychiatric Phenomenon?” PSYCHIATRIC BULLETIN v. 26**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, </span>**20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">02</span>__****<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, </span>**pp. 285-287. Available from the Wrold Wide Web at: http://pb.rcpsych.org/cgi/content/full/26/8/285</span>


<span style="font-size: 5pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Although terrorism throughout human history has been … … mass destruction of life, including their own.</span>


====2NC==== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**We control uniqueness—History shows a trend away from the amorphous violence they critique**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Tomkins 06** (Richard, consumer industries editor of the Financial Times, “Goodbye, cruel world”, Financial Times, 2/4,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://search.ft.com/nonFtArticle?sortBy=datearticle&page=77&queryText=egypt&y=0&javascriptEnabled=true&id=060204001016&x=0]]</span>)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__Is it possible that children in today's western… …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">everybody else - is what we are struck by now."</span></span>




<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Killing in the short-term is necessary to win the war against terror. Softer solutions will embolden the enemy. </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Peters</span>__**, 2k**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">4</span>__** - (Ralph, Retired Army Officer, “In Praise of Attrition,” Parameters, Summer) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">It cannot be repeated often enough: </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Whatever<span style="border: none;">…<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …</span></span></span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">of attrition. And we are going to win them.</span> </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Terrorism is highly probable and causes extinction </span>


<span style="margin-right: -.75pt;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Rhodes 09</span>__** <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Reducing the nuclear threat: The argument for public safety By Richard Rhodes | 14 December 2009 Rhodes is the author of The Making of the Atomic Bomb (1986), which won the Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, National Book Award, and National Book Critics Circle Award. It was the first of four volumes he has written on the history of the nuclear age. Dark Sun: The Making of the Hydrogen Bomb (1995), Arsenals of Folly: The Making of the Nuclear Arms Race (2007), and The Twilight of the Bombs (forthcoming in autumn 2010) are the others. He has been a visiting scholar at Harvard and MIT, and currently he is an affiliate of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University. </span></span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The response was very different among nuclear and national security experts … …those attacks in the name of sending a message. </span></span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">And, tech advances magnify the impact </span>


<span style="margin-right: -.75pt;"><span class="StyleEmphasisArial12ptBold">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; font-style: normal;">Pa</span>____<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; font-style: normal;">cotti 03</span>__</span> [Sheldon, Salon.com, March 31 <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">http://www.salon.com/tech/feature/2003/03/31/knowledge/index.html]</span></span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">A similar trend has appeared in proposed solutions … …reexamine even these basic, long-held beliefs." </span></span></span>




==Iraq Courts Thing (see Wayzata DM)== 

===Pre-emption advantage=== 

====1NC==== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Preemption is key to militarism and to fight terrorism</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Walter **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Williams</span>__**, bachelor's degree in economics from California State University (1965) and a master's degree (1967) and doctorate (1972) in economics from the University of California at Los Angeles, “Fighting Terrorism and the Case for Pre-emption,” Capitalism Magazine, April 8, 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">4</span>__**, http://www.capmag.com/article.asp?ID=3596, UK: Fisher </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Fighting terrorism as well as rogue dictators…<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …</span>going to wait for you to finish construction</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span> </span>


<see War on Terror Good stuff above>

**And, militarism is awesome**
<span style="margin: 0px;">**Nyquist 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jeffrey R., brilliant analyst of Russian foreign policy and All-American Man, 6/17, “National Security vs Special Interests,” accessed at<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #0658b5; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2005/0617.html|http://www. financialsensearchive.com/ stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/ 2005/0617.html]]</span> on 9/21/10, dml)</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">After the response from last week</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">’</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">s column… …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> divide and conquer is clearly at work.</span>__</span>

==**South Korea**== 

===Regionalism advantage=== 



====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-South Korea-Regionalism frontline-1NC]]1NC</span>==== 

Status quo solves – South Korea is advancing regionalism now
Lee, 09 **<span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Seoul National University (December 2009, Geun, “The Nexus between Korea’s Regional Security Options and Domestic Politics,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cfr.org/|www.cfr.org]]</span>)</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Korea’s Option of Multilateral Security Cooperation… …</span> __functions as a confidence-building measure.__**


Reject their evidence from before 2009 – the status quo is now different
Rathus 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Monbusho Scholar, Meiji U and researches East Asian regional integration (Joel, China-Japan-Korea trilateral cooperation and the East Asian Community, 15 June 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/06/15/china-japan-korea-trilateral-cooperation-and-the-east-asian-community/]]</span>)</span>**

**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">S</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">ince its inception on the sidelines of the… …</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> after becoming aware of this delaying strategy</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>**



No internal link – maintaining presence doesn’t stop regionalism – they’re not zero-sum
Hyug-baeg, 08 **<span style="font-size: 6pt;">– professor at the department of political science and diplomacy at Korea University (October 2008, Im Hyug-baeg, U.S.-Korea Institute Working Paper Series, “How Korea Could Become a Regional Power in Northeast Asia: Building a Northeast Asian Triad,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://uskoreainstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/10/USKI-WP4.pdf]]</span>)</span>**


**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Many have said that the existing</span>… …__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> accomplished toward mutual goals. (Han Yong Sup, 2005)</span>**


Even if regionalism is good strengthening our bilateral alliance is comparatively more important
Kim 6 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">M.D.. Education. M.D., John Hopkins University; B.S., Duke University (Stephen J., “ALTERNATIVE PROLIFERATION AND ALLIANCE FUTURES IN EAST ASIA”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA451273&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>)</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given our optimistic and pessimistic projections… …</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> to curb nuclear proliferation in East Asia</span>__**



====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-South Korea-Regionalism frontline-1NR]]1NR</span>==== 

**U.S. withdrawal won’t increase South Korean regional ties**

<span class="Heading2Char">Morgan 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Patrick M., Ph.D., Chair in Peace and Conflict Studies – University of California, Irvine, “Re-Aligning the Military and Political Dimensions Of the ROK-US Alliance: The Possibilities”, International Journal of Korean Studies, XI(2), Fall, p. 76) </span>

<span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 13pt;">A</span>__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">nother __<span style="background-color: yellow;">element</span>…__</span></span> __to expanded ties__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



===Korean War advantage=== 



====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-South Korea-Korean war frontline-1NC]]1NC</span>==== 

No war – south will repress it
Right Vision News, 10 **(<span style="font-size: 8pt;">6/7/10, “Pakistan: South Korea Lee says no possibility of war in Korea”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/]]</span>)</span>**


**<span class="Underline">South Korean <span style="background-color: yellow;">President Lee</span> Myung-bak… … at a meeting with businessmen in Singapore.</span>**


Won’t escalate to full scale conflict
Paal, **<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span> **<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(6/3/10, Douglas H., “The Cheonan Attack,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23472]]</span>) </span>**


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">One thing we have observed about… …</span> <span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">signal intent to avoid outright conflict.</span>**


More evidence – North Korea is opening up peace talks with South Korea
Yonhap News 9/16 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(By Kim Deok-Hyun, “N. Korea proposes working-level military talks with S. Korea,” accessed at<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2010/09/16/29/0301000000AEN20100916003300315F.HTML%20on%209/16/10|http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2010/09/16/29/0301000000AEN20100916003300315F.HTML on 9/16/10]]</span>, dml)</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">SEOUL, Sept. 16 (Yonhap) -- </span><span style="background-color: yellow;">North Korea has</span>… …<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> three-year conflict ended without a peace treaty.</span>**


**North Korea’s is impoverished and their weapons are no threat. Multiple warrants prove.**
**Cirincione 09 <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Joseph, president of Ploughshares Fund, “North Korean not a cause for panic”) </span>**


**(CNN) --** <span style="background-color: yellow;">North Korea's thinly disguised missile test</span>… … <span class="underline0">does not have a place at the table.</span>


South Korea won’t retaliate – doesn’t want to freak out investors, this assumes the Cheonan
Kim, 6/16 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(6/16/10, Jack, Reuters, “Q+A - How serious is the Korean crisis and risk of war?”</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://in.reuters.com/article/idINIndia-49340820100616]]</span>, JMP) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 5.5pt;">SEOUL (Reuters) - North Korea has repeated its… …</span><span style="background-color: yellow;"> two Koreas </span>**stop short of all-out war.



====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-South Korea-Korean war frontline-1NR - No War]]1NR - No War</span>==== 

[[#_GoBack]]**More evidence – Kim Jong-Il isn’t going to launch a full war**
**Gilbert, 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lieutenant Colonel in U.S. Army (5/3/04, David, “Korea 50 Years Later: Why Are We Still There?” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA424189&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The North Korean… such a test.</span>

<span class="Underline">**South Korean retaliation unlikely – too much at stake**</span>
<span class="Underline"> **UPI, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (5/20/2010, “Military Retaliation Not Seen as an Option”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com/|http://www.lexisnexis.com]]</span>) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"> <span style="background-color: aqua;">Despite the anger</span>…<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> massive economic aid.</span></span>

<span class="Underline"> **Just conventional use by North Korea will be easily dealt with by U.S. and South Korea**</span>
<span class="Underline"> **Dwyer, 10** (5/29/10, Gwynne, “What a Korean war would look like,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.winnipegfreepress.com/opinion/westview/what-a-korean-war-would-look-like-95172999.html]]</span>) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Start with the… humiliated by defeat.</span>

**No escalation – empirical**
**Strobel and Landay, 10** – Foreign affairs correspondent, reporter (Warren and Jonathan, 5/25/10, Yahoo News, “Will North Korea's saber rattling lead to war?”
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://news.yahoo.com/s/mcclatchy/20100525/wl_mcclatchy/3516222]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">"</span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">It's not inevitable</span>…__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> town of Kaesong.</span>


==**Afghanistan**== 


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **COIN Advantage** </span>=== 


====COIN - 1NC==== 


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">(1) COIN necessary – Fighting War on Terror with just counter-terrorism forces will fail. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> **<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Danly</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, international affairs fellow with the Council on Foreign Relations, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2009</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [James, “Victory in Afghanistan Requires Fully Supported Counterinsurgency,” 10-27, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://politics.usnews.com/opinion/articles/2009/10/27/victory-in-afghanistan-requires-fully-supported-counterinsurgency.html]]</span>]</span>**</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> **<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline">Counterterrorism certainly has its role in Afghanistan… …</span>counterinsurgency strategy advanced by Gen. Stanley McChrystal. </span>**</span>


<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> **<span style="margin-left: 0in;">(2) Counterterrorism strategy would kill our unmanned aircraft capability, cause the Afghan government to collapse, Pakistani extremism would increase and we would lose our allied support in the area. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Riedel</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, a CIA veteran, chaired the president's Afghanistan-Pakistan review last winter , </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">and O'Hanlon</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, former national security analyst at the Congressional Budget Office, ’09 (Bruce and Michael, both are senior fellows at the Brookings Institute, 9-24-0</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, “Why we can't go small in Afghanistan”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.iri.org/news-events-press-center/news/usa-today-features-op-ed-iri-election-observer]]</span>, da: 7-19-10)</span>**</span>


<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> **<span style="margin-left: 0in;">The second reason a __<span style="background-color: yellow;">counterterrorism</span>__-oriented… …__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> as well as a major propaganda win</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">.</span> </span>**</span>


<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> **<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Al-Qaeda no longer capable of significant attack. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> **<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Breyman and Salman 2010</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Steve – assoc prof of science and technology studies @ Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and Aneel – Fulbright scholar from Pakistan, “An analysis of Obama’s AfPak goal and first objective: Setting the baseline and prospects for success”, PAKISTAN SECURITY RESEARCH UNIT, Brief 59, June 29]</span>**</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> **<span style="margin-left: 0in;">__By the summer of 2009, US commanders__, including… …<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow;">toward irrelevance if not ultimately “defeat</span></span>.” </span>**</span>
====New COIN Frontline - 1NC==== 


**<span style="color: black;">FIRST, COIN key to solve – multiple warrants </span>**

George **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Grant</span>__**, Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director, 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">10</span>__**, “Succeeding in Afghanistan”, The Henry Jackson Society, http://www.worldsecuritynetwork.com/documents/Succeeding_in_Afghanistan.pdf, umn-rks 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The argument that has run throughout this report … …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">distant prospect </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">as so many seem to think. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">SECOND, COIN is key to intel gathering, turns case </span>**

George **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Grant</span>__**, Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director, 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">10</span>__**, “Succeeding in Afghanistan”, The Henry Jackson Society, http://www.worldsecuritynetwork.com/documents/Succeeding_in_Afghanistan.pdf, umn-rks 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Though the </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">separation of the population …<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> insecurity with it whenever it appears. </span>

**THIRD, COIN is key to reversing Taliban momentum and establishing permanent local governance – that’s a prerequisite to aff solvency**

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Fair, 10</span>__** [C. Christine Fair is an assistant professor in the Center for Peace and Security Studies, within Georgetown University’s Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, a senior political scientist with the RAND Corporation where she has done two tours of duty, served as a political officer to the U.N. Assistance Mission to Afghanistan and as a senior research associate in the U.S. Institute for Peace, Center for Conflict Analysis and Prevention, member of the IISS and the US CFR and serves on the editorial board of Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, “Obama’s New “Af-Pak” Strategy: Can “Clear, Hold, Build, Transfer” Work?” The Centre for International Governance Innovation, an independent, nonpartisan think tank that addresses international governance challenges, The Afghanistan Papers, a signature product of CIGI’s major research program on Afghanistan, No. 6, July 2010, http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/CIGI_ObamasNewAfPakStrategy_CanClearHoldBuildTransferWork.pdf] 

To achieve these more modest goals… …which some Afghans perceive as “deal making.”4 


**<span style="color: black;">Prefer our evidence – empirics prove COIN is comparatively better than counterterrorism for Afghanistan </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Lamb and Cinnamond, 10</span>__** [Dr. Christopher J. Lamb is Acting Director of the Institute for National Strategic Studies at the National Defense University and Dr. Martin Cinnamond worked in a number of United Nations positions in Afghanistan in 2007–2008. He also trained and co-led the Afghan Special Investigation Team investigating assassinations by the Taliban. “Unified Effort Key to Special Operations and Irregular Warfare in Afghanistan,” JFQ, issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA515109&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf] 

The tension between the two missions … …country’s troops were doing the fighting.20 


**<span style="color: black;">And uniqueness goes neg – we are winning the war now –all their evidence is biased fear mongering – their authors only focus on the negatives and ignore the great strides COIN has made </span>**

Max **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Boot</span>__**, Senior Fellow in National Security Strategies, 9/2/**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">10</span>__**, “Afghanistan: The Case for Optimism”, Council on Foreign Relations, http://www.cfr.org/publication/22878/afghanistan.html, umn-rks 

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">The operation appears to be a bust…</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> …that tore the country apart in the 1990s.</span>


**<span style="color: black;">And even if they win that insurgents will run and hide doing so disconnects them from the population – that allows COIN to focus on development which prevents future Taliban takeover </span>**

George **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Grant</span>__**, Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director, 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">10</span>__**, “Succeeding in Afghanistan”, The Henry Jackson Society, http://www.worldsecuritynetwork.com/documents/Succeeding_in_Afghanistan.pdf, umn-rks 

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Insurgencies are</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, in almost every case</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">…<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …</span>its allegiance to the government altogether</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Pakistan - 1NC</span>==== 


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Starting drawdown means a massive refugee flood into Pakistan that would collapse stability </span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Chinadaily</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2010</span></span> <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Chinadaily,"Early US pullout from Afghanistan could be a problem for Pakistan," April 2010, pg found @ LexisNexis)</span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Intelligence officials say Taliban will feel… …<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">economic sector alone," the unnamed official said.</span></span></span>**


**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Withdrawal causes Pakistan collapse </span></span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Fullilove 9 </span></span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/experts/fullilovem.aspx|Michael Fullilove]]</span>, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institute, “The West Can Win in Afghanistan”, The Brookings Institute, July 28, 2009, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0728_afghanistan_fullilove.aspx]]</span>)</span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow;">Pakistan is the best example of where… …it knows and in many cases created.</span></span></span>**



**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">No impact or risk from Pakistani loose nukes </span></span></span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">John </span><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mueller 10</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, professor of political science at Ohio State University, Calming Our Nuclear Jitters, Issues in Science & Technology, Winter2010, Vol. 26, Issue 2</span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline">The terrorist group might also seek to steal… …</span><span class="boldunderline">of <span style="background-color: aqua;">Pakistan, the weapons would be disassembled</span></span></span>**





====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Afghanistan-COIN Advantage-Terrorism - 1NR]]Terrorism - 1NR</span>==== 


COIN provides necessary support and intelligence to defeat Al Qaeda
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;">Michael E. </span>**O’Hanlon**,<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;"> Senior Fellow and Director of Research in Foreign Policy Studies, Brookings Institution, </span><span class="Author-Date">20</span>**10**,<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;"> __Toughing it out in Afghanistan__, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/Press/Books/2010/toughingitoutinafghanistan/toughingitoutinafghanistan_chapter.pdf]]</span></span>**

**<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Some argue that…</span></span> is a poor substitute.**


CT will fuel terrorism – it’s empirically proven force reduction will reduce intelligence gathering and create sanctuaries for terrorists.
<span class="Author-Date">O'Hanlon 09</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">former national security analyst at the Congressional Budget Office, ’09 (Michael, senior fellow the Brookings Institution, Oct. 6, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/10/05/AR2009100502705.html]]</span>, “ A General Within B</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">ounds”)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The past eight years…</span> <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">to pretend otherwise</span></span>**


==TNWs== 
===Iran advantage=== 
====1NC==== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: 795.75pt;">No war with Iran </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: 795.75pt;">**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gilmore</span>__** 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">6</span>__** (David, Analyst at Foreign Exchange Analytics, Forex Research, January 18, http://www.global-view.com/research/index.html?nid=4422) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: 795.75pt;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Regarding </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Iran</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, I think it </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">is very… …and a derailing of the global economy</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: 795.75pt;"> And strikes won’t go nuclear </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: 795.75pt;">Dan **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Plesch</span>__**, Director of the School of Oriental and African Studies’ Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy, **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">and</span>__** Martin **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Butcher</span>__**, international consultant on security politics, September 0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">7</span>__**, “Considering a war with Iran: A discussion paper on WMD in the Middle East”, http://www.scribd.com/doc/282110/Considering-a-war-with-Iran-A-discussion-paper-on-WMD-in-the-Middle-East, umn-rks </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: 795.75pt;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">The US has strategic forces prepared to… …making nuclear weapons use less likely</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: 795.75pt;">Iran won’t lash out </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: 795.75pt;">**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Harvard Gazette</span>__** 3-23-0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">6</span>__** (http://www.news.harvard.edu/gazette/2006/03.23/13-iran.html) </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">"The second set of problems," he said… …but </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">a manageable problem</span></span>

===Prolif advantage=== 
====1NC==== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Withdrawal causes rogue and allied prolif </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Heritage</span>__**.org **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">3/4</span>__** (Sally McNamara, 3/4/10, "President Obama Must Not Remove Nuclear Weapons from Europe", http://www.heritage.org/Research/Europe/wm2824.cfm, Rohan) </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">The vast majority of America's allies… …</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">contrary to President Obama's goal of nuclear disarmament. </span></span>



==<span style="font-size: 120%;">BMDs</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**China Advantage**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Japan-China Advantage (BMDs)-1NC]]1NC</span>==== 


**China will modernize regardless of BMD**
**O’Donogue 2K**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Colonel Patrick M., Lieutenant Colonel O’Donogue is a Naval aviator and served in Operations DESERT SHIELD, SOUTHERN WATCH, and SILENT ASSURANCE. He earned an M.A. in National Strategy and Strategic Studies from the Naval War College, September, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB66.pdf]]</span>) </span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">On the other hand, </span><span class="underline">**it can be argued… …**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif;">China’s nuclear arsenal</span>, which would happen anyway</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

**NPR solves – emphasizes mutual deterrence and will not negate China’s nuclear deterrent**
**Yao ‘10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Yunzhu, 5/6, senior colonel in the Chinese People’s Liberation Army and currently a fellow with the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University, “A Chinese Perspective on the Nuclear Posture Review,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/?fa=view&id=40758]]</span>) </span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="underline">Obama administration’s</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Nuclear Posture Review <span style="background-color: aqua;">(</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif;">NPR)… </span>…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">in which nuclear weapons still have a role to play? </span></span>

**No risk of a break in Chinese relations**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Minnick 8</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Wendell, 11/17, “China Adopts Russian Anti-BMD Rhetoric”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=3823111]]</span>) </span>
<span style="margin: 0in;">The statement suggests China means to "drive a wedge" between the United States and its Asian allies, said Yoichiro Sato of the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies, Honolulu. But Sato noted that <span class="underline">compared with Russia, <span style="background-color: aqua;">China's… …is toning down its criticism of missile defense</span></span>." </span>

**US-Japan BMD key to checking prolif**
**Swaine et. al. ‘7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael D. Swaine, 12/7, Ph.D., Harvard University, Senior Associate and Co-Director of the China Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Rachel M. Swanger and Takashi Kawakami @ Rand, “Japan and Ballistic Missile Defense,” p.RAND)</span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Japanese participation in a successful BMD program… …**conclude that their efforts are worthless**</span> **and wasteful**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.5 </span></span>

**Nuclear war**
**Utgoff ‘2**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Victor – deputy director for strategy, forces and resources division at the Institute for Defense Analysis, Survival, p. OUP Journals) </span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Widespread proliferation is likely to lead to a</span>n… …of dead cities or even <span style="background-color: aqua;">whole nations</span></span> </span>

**Japan is vulnerable to North Korean missiles – BMD is key to check the threat**
**Swaine et. al. ‘7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael D. Swaine, 12/7, Ph.D., Harvard University, Senior Associate and Co-Director of the China Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Rachel M. Swanger and Takashi Kawakami @ Rand, “Japan and Ballistic Missile Defense,” p.RAND)</span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">According to proponents, </span><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif;">the deployment of… </span>…<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">defense strategists should</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> at least </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">not ignore</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

**BMD has a deterrent effect**
**Pfaltzgraff et. al. ‘9**
(Robert, President, Ph.D. in PoliSci, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, Prof @ National Defense College, “Boost-Phase Missile Defense: Present Challenges, Future Prospects”, 4-3, The George Marshall Institute, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/653.pdf]]</span>)
<span style="margin: 0in;">I understand this in somewhat broader… …<span class="Box">less and <span style="background-color: aqua;">less necessary</span></span><span class="underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua;"> ever to have to use it</span>**. </span></span>

**That checks a global nuclear arms race**
**Stensrud ‘9**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jamie, Prolific Author, Cites Multiple Studies, “Fears Over North Korean</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ballistic Missile Capability,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://yowusa.com/war/2000/war-2000-09a/1.shtml]]</span>) </span>
<span style="margin: 0in;">Concern over North Korea's nuclear technology and… …attempting to integrate themselves into a global whole. </span>

**Extinction**
**Doyle ‘9**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Clare, </span>Committee for a Workers' International, Nuclear sabre-rattling, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://socialistworld.net/eng/2009/06/0701.html]]</span>)
<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the past couple of weeks, three </span><span class="underline">'events'… …<span style="background-color: aqua;">war threatening the very survival of the planet</span>. </span></span>

**US-Japan cooperation is the foundation of European BMD**
**Schiffer ‘10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, 3/17, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Affairs, Congressional Documents and Publications, p. lexis) </span>
<span style="margin: 0in;">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif;">U.S. missile defense cooperation with Japan</span>__ has become… …__NATO allies and partners in the Arabian Gulf region.__ </span>

**That’s vital to check Iranian missiles**
**Ewing ‘9**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Philip, Staff writer @ Navy Times, “BMD fleet plans Europe defense mission,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.navytimes.com/news/2009/09/navy_bmd_ships_092809w/]]</span>) </span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="underline">Navy’s new mission of protecting Europe… …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Navy planners must answer over the next two years: </span></span>

**Extinction**
**Rubin ‘9**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Barry, Prof @ the Interdisciplinary Center, Director of the Global Research in International Affairs, Research Director of the IDC's Lauder School of Government, Diplomacy, and Strategy, “What if Iran gets a working nuclear weapon? How Middle East crisis would hit U.S.,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nydailynews.com/news/national/2009/03/09/2009-03-09_what_if_iran_gets_a_working_nuclear_weap.html]]</span>) </span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif;">If</span> and when <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nydailynews.com/topics/Iran|Iran]]</span> <span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif;">gets nuclear weapons it would set off… </span>…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">avoid Iran getting nuclear weapons in the first place </span></span>


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Japan-China Advantage (BMDs)-2NC Iran Link]]2NC Iran Link</span>==== 

Japanese Block IIA development spills over to a larger European missile defense

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">China Daily ‘10</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(4/22, “US says Japan sticks to missile-shield program”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://chinadaily.cn/world/2010-04/22/content_9759308.htm]]</span>) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua;">Japan remains fully committed to building… </span>…**integrate the upgraded Block IIA SM-3 interceptor.</span> </span>


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Japan-China Advantage (BMDs)-AT: US Presence Solves]]AT: US Presence Solves</span>==== 

BMD is key to deter Iran

Pfaltzgraff et. al. ‘9
<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Robert, President, Ph.D. in PoliSci, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, Prof @ National Defense College,“Boost-Phase Missile Defense: Present Challenges, Future Prospects”, 4-3, The George Marshall Institute, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/653.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It seems to me that the </span><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua;">deployment of a… </span>…**debris right back in the attacker’s lap**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

And that outweighs conventional deterrence

Perkovich ‘9
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(George, May, Ph.D, vice president for studies and director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, expert in U.S. foreign policy, nonproliferation, security, global governance, and non-governmental actors,</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “EXTENDED DETERRENCE ON THE WAY TO A NUCLEAR-FREE WORLD,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.icnnd.org/research/Perkovich_Deterrence.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Issues arising from extended deterrence in Europe… …</span><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua;">reduce the salience of U.S. nuclear weapons</span></span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Japan-Taiwan Advantage (BMDs)]]Taiwan Advantage (BMDs)**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Japan-Taiwan Advantage (BMDs)-1NC]]1NC</span>==== 

Perception of conventional deterrence’s key to prevent Chinese aggression over Taiwan
Ross ‘2
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert S., Prof of Pol Sci @ Boston College and Associate of John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies @Harvard University, “Navigating the Taiwan Strait”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/ross_v27n2.pdf]]</span>) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in;">The U.S.-China military balance undermines PRC confidence… …war with the United States and achieve unification.66 </span>



==Other== 

===Russia Impact D=== 

====1NC - No War==== 


FIRST, No US-Russia war 

Thomas **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Graham</span>__**, former senior advisor on Russia on the U.S. National Security Council staff, July-September 0<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 11pt;">7</span></span>, “The Dialectics of Strength and Weakness”, Russia in Global Affairs, http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/20/1129.html, umn-rks 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">An astute historian of Russia, … … more constructive long-term relations with Russia. </span>

Negotiations check 

Colonel General Leonid **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ivashov</span>__**, President of the Academy of Geopolitical Problems. July 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">7 </span>__**“WILL AMERICA FIGHT RUSSIA”. Defense and Security, No 78. LN 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Ivashov: Numerous scenarios and options are … …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;"> the war and put negotiations into motio</span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">n. </span></span>

Russia won’t break relations 

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Eugene B. </span>**__<span style="color: black;">Rumer</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, senior fellow at the Institute for National Strategic Studies at the National Defense University (NDU) and Celeste A. Wallander, director of the Russia and Eurasia Program and the Trustee Fellow at CSIS, Winter 0</span>**__<span style="color: black;">3</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">/04, “Russia: Power in Weakness?”, The Washington Quarterly, http://www.twq.com/04winter/docs/04winter_rumer.pdf </span>**

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">Given Russia’s </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">geopolitical </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">predicament</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">, it is difficult </span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">…<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …</span>geopolitically balancing the United States’ international position</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

====2NC - No War==== 


And they have no incentive to attack – they don’t want to compete 

Dimitri K. **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Simes</span>__**. (President of the Nixon Center and Publisher of The National Interest.) "Losing War." Foreign Affairs." NOv/DEc. 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">7</span>__**. Lexis 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">These </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">numerous </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">disagreements do no<span style="border: none;">t </span></span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">…<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …</span> </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">and</span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;"> that </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">provoking it</span> </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">needlessly </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">makes little sense</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

And, Russia isn’t a threat 

Sherle R. **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Schwenninger</span>__**, New Senior Fellow at the World Policy Institute, 10/6/0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">8</span>__**, “Ten National Security Myths”, http://www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2008/ten_national_security_myths_7983, umn-rks 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">First, </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">Russia’s foreign policy has </span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">…<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">not simply on Russian acquiescence in American dictates. </span>


====1NC/2NC - AT: Loose Nukes==== 


US efforts solve Russian loose nukes now 

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">FAS</span>__**. "Overview of the US efforts to Control the Spread of Russian Nuclear Weapons, Materials, and Expertise." Appendix A. 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">5</span>__**. http://www.fas.org/ssp/docs/020500-heu/app_a.pdf 

<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">The U</span></span><span class="SmalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">nited</span></span> <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">S</span></span><span class="SmalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">tates government currently</span></span> <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">conducts</span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;"> …<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …</span></span></span><span class="SmalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> weapons-of-mass-destruction-related expertise. </span></span>




====1NC - Accidents==== 


FIRST, No risk of Accidents 

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Leonid </span>**Ryabikhin**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Executive Secretary, Committee of Scientist for Global Security and Arms Control; Senior Fellow, EastWest Institute), General (Ret.) Viktor </span>**Koltunov **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Deputy Director, Institute for Strategic Stability of Rosatom), and Dr. Eugene </span>**Miasnikov**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Senior Research Scientist, Center for Arms Control, Energy and Environmental Studies) “De-alerting: Decreasing the Operational Readiness of Strategic Nuclear Forces” Discussion paper presented at the seminar on “Re-framing De-Alert: Decreasing the Operational Readiness of Nuclear Weapons Systems in the U.S.-Russia Context” in Yverdon, Switzerland, 21-23 June 20</span>**09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. http://www.ewi.info/system/files/RyabikhinKoltunovMiasnikov.pdf</span>**

Most of the experts define de-alerting as … … measures to observe the agreed requirements. 

Second, No Hair Trigger—locks and discipline prevent accidents 

<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Walter B. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Slocombe</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, J.D. Harvard Law, Former Under Secretary of Defense for Policy and Senior advisor for the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad, 21-23 June 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">09</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, “De-Alerting: Diagnoses, Prescriptions, and Side-Effects*” Discussion paper presented at the seminar on “Re-framing De-Alert: Decreasing the Operational Readiness of Nuclear Weapons Systems in the U.S.-Russia Context” in Yverdon, Switzerland http://www.ewi.info/system/files/Slocombe.pdf </span></span>

<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Whatever other problems </span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">the current </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">nuclear </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">…<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …</span></span></span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">the result will not be a nuclear explosion.</span></span>

Third, No escalation: Norway incident proves 

Bailey, ’98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Kathleen, Senior Fellow, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, August, www.nipp.org/CTBT/5.htm]</span>**

<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The United States and Russia have satellite-and … …</span></span><span class="ReadUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 9pt;">in event that it was actually an attack</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span></span>


===<span class="ReadUnderline" style="font-size: 11pt;">Iran War D - General</span>=== 

====<span class="ReadUnderline" style="font-size: 11pt;">Frontline</span>==== 


No war with Iran 

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gilmore</span>__** 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">6</span>__** (David, Analyst at Foreign Exchange Analytics, Forex Research, January 18, http://www.global-view.com/research/index.html?nid=4422) 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Regarding </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Iran</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, I think it </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">is very unlikely… …a derailing of the global economy</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

And strikes won’t go nuclear 

Dan **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Plesch</span>__**, Director of the School of Oriental and African Studies’ Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy, **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">and</span>__** Martin **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Butcher</span>__**, international consultant on security politics, September 0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">7</span>__**, “Considering a war with Iran: A discussion paper on WMD in the Middle East”, http://www.scribd.com/doc/282110/Considering-a-war-with-Iran-A-discussion-paper-on-WMD-in-the-Middle-East, umn-rks 

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">The US has strategic forces prepared…<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …</span>making nuclear weapons use less likely</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

====<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> **AT: Lashout**</span>==== 



And they won’t lash out – retaliation fears

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Posen</span>__** 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">6</span>__** (Barry, Ford International Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, AlterNet, March 30, http://www.alternet.org/audits/34219/)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The final concern is that a nuclear Iran would… …defend the Gulf states from Iranian aggression.</span>