[[toc]]
If you want cites, email me at <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[@https://mail.google.com/mail/?extsrc=mailto&url=mailto%3Athomas.hodgman@gmail.com|thomas.hodgman@gmail.com]]</span>. Mihir "The Destroyer" is probably busy fighting crime.

=Affirmative= 
==Rancière Aff== 

===1AC - Harvard (Octas)=== 

We swapped this card in for Simons and Masschelein (vs. Norm).

**The 1AC is an enunciation from the gap between subject positions – debater, iraqi, and the state – politics is only possible in the intersection between identities**
Chambers ‘5 (Samuel, teaches political theory at the University of Wales Swansea, “The politics of Literarity,” Theory & Event 8:3, TH) 
The differences among … from the start. 

===1AC - Glenbrooks=== 

(I scrapped the old version for clarity's sake. Nothing's changed since the Glenbrooks/they were basically the same). This is true as of Harvard.

====Plan==== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw its military and police presence from Iraq.</span>

====<span style="font-weight: normal;">Contention 1: Iraq</span>==== 

<span style="font-weight: normal;"> **The recent August withdrawal did not end the struggle for Iraqi independence but begun it. America now wages its combat** **operations under the banner of stability, but their function remains the same – to violently control Iraq leaving death and** **destruction in its wake.**</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Milne, 2010 (Seumas, August 4, Guardian columnist and associate editor, studied economics and politics at Oxford and</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> London universities, “The US isn't leaving Iraq, it's rebranding the occupation,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> cifamerica/2010/aug/04/us-iraq-rebranding-occupation, TH)</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> For most people in Britain … Iraq's independence has only just begun.</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"> **To justify the occupation of Iraq we claim the privileged status of liberator and declare that we are more qualified than the** **Iraqi people to rule Iraq. This hierarchy of inequality makes true political action by the Iraqi people impossible. Additionally,** **our presence stifles domestic dissent by equating support for the occupation with faith in our community’s unique moral** **character.**</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Sanadjian, 2004 (Manuchehr, University of Manchester, “Fetishised liberty, the fear of the other and the global juridical rule in</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Iraq,” Social Identities, 10: 5, p. 672-676, TH)</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> The American and British military …between givers and receivers (Mauss, 1970).</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"> **Ranciere calls this view of the political community consensus. Consensus represents United States laws and policies as**</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> **perfectly aligned with the freedom and morals which universally define the American way of life.**</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Ranciere 10 (Jacques, Professor of Aesthetics at the University of Paris VIII, “Dissensus: On Politics and Aesthetics,” p. 99-</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> 101, TH)</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> From the beginning, the American … nations and that between them.</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"> **This understanding of the community creates an “infinite justice” which establishes absolute Evil as the enemy and**</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> **legitimizes any action in the infinite war against Evil. Any attack against America becomes an attack against Good itself** **requiring that all enemies MUST be eliminated.**</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Ranciere 2 (Jacques, April 30, Professor of Aesthetics at the University of Paris VIII, Counterpunch, “Prisoners of the Infinite,”</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> http://www.counterpunch.org/ranciere0430.html, TH)</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> From that point of view … matter of war unto death.</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"> **To maintain this community, infinite justice requires constant pre-emption of threats before they materialize. Pre-emption** **divides the world into threat and non-threat, legitimizing the destruction of the periphery and reducing the population to homo** **sacer. All life and value is placed in the hands of the police.**</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Goh 6 (Irving, Visiting Fellow @ Harvard U., where he worked on a research project on Balibar's philosophy of</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> citizenship. Research Fellow @ National U. of Singapore. His research emphasis is in continental philosophy and its</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> intersections with other disciplines like politics, literature, and architecture, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere” Fast Capitalism, 2.1, http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html)</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> In the same speech of … so must this persistence.</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"> **Pre-emption fails as a frame for predicting and managing crises. Our attempts to achieve security become insecure, re-**</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> **creating the very catastrophes we try to avoid.**</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Der Derian 05 (James, “National Security: An Accident Waiting to Happen,” Harvard International Review 27.3, p. 83)</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> It often takes a catastrophe … in other words, "planned disasters."</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"> **These threatening depictions of the inevitable future create blind faith in political leaders. Faith-based politics apply**</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> **preemption to civil society, sectioning off and containing potential dissent.**</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Elmer and Opel 8 (Greg- Director of the Infoscape research lab and Bell Globemedia Research Chair @ Ryerson University,</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> and Andy, associate professor Dept. of Communication @ Florida State University, Preempting Dissent: The Politics of an</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Inevitable Future, p. 9-16)</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> In 2003, the Pentagon released … have given way to action.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Infusing equality into the decision-making process is key to combat global destruction** </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Stannard 2006 (Matt, Department of Communication and Journalism, University of Wyoming, Spring 2006 Faculty Senate Speaker Series Speech, April 18, http://theunderview.blogspot.com/2006/04/deliberation-democracy-and-debate.html)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The complexity and … resist this colonization.</span>

====Contention 2: Ethics==== 

**We must forego moral absolutism, and rethink ethics as revealing how elites contradict their own stated principles. In a** **nominally democratic society, this must center on the presupposition of equality**
May 8 (Todd, Prof. of Philosophy @ Clemson U., “The Political Thought of Jacques Rancière,” p.104-112, TH)
Philosophically, we must abandon the search … to the first position: external critique.

**Equality is not hypothetical but an axiom which all social orders and even hierarchy must recognize**
Ranciere, 2006 (Jacques, Professor of Aesthetics at the University of Paris VIII, “Hatred of democracy,” p. 46, TH)
This is what of all things … must ultimately find out it is based.

**Equality is not a goal to be achieved but an unconditional axiom from which politics must begin**
Barbour ‘10 (Charles, Department of Sociology @ U. of Alberta, “Militants of Truth, Communities of Equality: Badiou and the ignorant schoolmaster,” Educational Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 42, No. 2, TH)
While his work is often … if it is axiomatically denied.

**Beginning with inequality only reproduces more inequalities**
Simons and Masschelein, 2010 (Maarten, Center for Educational Policy and Innovation, and Masschelein, Center for
Philosophy of Education, “Governmental, Political and Pedagogic Subjectivation: Foucault with Rancière,” Educational
Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 42, Nos. 5–6, p, 596, TH)
In line with this idea … or social or collective equality.

**Placing equality at the beginning of our decision calculus is key to combat global violence**
Badiou ‘1, (Alain, Prof. of Philosophy @ EGS, On Evil: An Interview With Alain Badiou, http://www.cabinetmagazine.org/
issues/5/alainbadiou.php)
Take the nearest example: the … and inequality, and sexual barbarism.

**The aff is an act of solidarity - what’s critical about equality is not an individual’s position but the recognition that we** **are all Iraqis and all potentially threats. Only this declassification is capable of disrupting the power of the police order.**
May 8 (Todd, Prof. of Philosophy @ Clemson U., “The Political Thought of Jacques Rancière,” p.55-56, TH)
If strikes can be forms … undercuts the particular oppression itself.

===2AC - Politics DA=== 

Consensus - Accepting the constraints offered by the powerful to determine action rests on a consensual hierarchy which excludes all non-americans
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Ranciere, 2000</span></span> (Jacques, summer, professor of aesthetics at the University of Paris VIII, in “Dissenting Words: A Conversation with Jacques Ranciere,” an interview conducted by David Panagia, diacritics, p.124, TH)
In effect, my reflections on ... proposed to call “<span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">the police.</span></span>”




=Negative= 
===Topicality=== 

====T - Bases==== 

1. Interp - Bases constitute military presence – it’s distinct from aid and force
Meernik, 1994 (James Meernik, University of North Texas, International Studies Quarterly, “Presidential Decision Making and the Political Use of Military Force,” Volume 38, p. 127) 
The level of American involvement ... enemies, and neutral parties alike.

2. Violation - The aff doesn’t reduce the number of U.S. bases

3. Vote Neg

A. Limits – They multiply the case-list by thousands by allowing any affs which reduce a subset of [troops/weapons] in a base.

B. Ground – closing of bases is necessary for perception, relations, trip-wire and credibility arguments 
Meernik, 1994 (James Meernik, University of North Texas, International Studies Quarterly, “Presidential Decision Making and the Political Use of Military Force,” Volume 38, p. 127) 
American Military Presence. The first ... level of the military response. 

====T - Equipment==== 

1. Interp - presence is military personnel 
Poon et al, 6 - Department of Geography, University at Buffalo-SUNY, Buffalo (Jessie, “The role of US defense exports in Asia Pacific regionalism,” Political Geography 25 (2006) 715-734, Science Direct) 
The major source of … and developments in the region. 

2. Violation – the aff reduces [ ], not troops 

3. Vote Neg 

A. Limits – allowing weapons explodes the topics by including tons of miniscule affs, we use thousands of different weapons systems which are unique to each country 

B. Ground – Allowing weapons changes the entire range of arguments we can run – they don’t determine whether the U.S. can fight wars, just how it does so – destroys deterrence, sphere of influence, and perception DAs 


====T - FW==== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A. The affirmative must present a plan of action and defend that their policy should be adopted by the United States federal government.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">B. Our interpretation is most predictable given the wording of the resolution:</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The topic is defined by the phrase following the colon – the USFG is the agent of the resolution, not the individual debaters</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Webster’s Guide to Grammar and Writing – 2000 http://ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/marks/colon.htm</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Use of a ... a capital letter.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“Resolved” expresses intent to implement the plan</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">American Heritage Dictionary 09 www.dictionary.com/cgi-bin/dict.pl?term=resolved</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">To find a ... usually successful conclusion</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“Should” denotes an expectation of enacting a plan</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">American Heritage Dictionary – 09 [www.dictionary.com]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">3 Used to ... probability or expectation</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“The USFG” is the government in Washington D.C.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Microsoft Encarta Online Encyclopedia 09 [http://encarta.msn.com]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“The federal government ... in Washington DC.”</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">and, our definition excludes action by smaller political groups or individuals.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Black’s Law Dictionary Seventh Edition Ed. Bryan A. Garner (chief) 1999</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Federal government 1. ... national political matters.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">C. Violation – The affirmative is not an instrumental affirmation of the resolution.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">D. Voters – Grounds, Limits, Education</span>

====T - Intrinsic Test==== 

Next is an intrinsic test of the aff 

A. Militarism - The aff is logically a reason to vote neg - they are a rejection of the notion that we should have to debate the resolution and its militarized premises – they have no justification for tying their advocacy to an affirmation of the res 

B. Neoliberalism – their role for the ballot as being part of a “currency of wins and losses” understands debate’s educational potential through the lens of the market – this banking pedagogy actively undermines critical pedagogy 
Giroux, 1AC author, 2006 (1AC Author, Henry, “The Abandoned Generation: The Urban Debate League and the Politics of Possibility,” in “America on the Edge: Henry Giroux on Politics, Culture, and Education,” p. 234, TH) 
Under such conditions, … the same way. 

C. Competitiveness – Tying the positions one advocates to competitive benefits of debate prevents any challenging of dominant power narratives. 
Spanos, 1AC author, 2002 (William, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=945110]]</span>) 
Dear Joe MIller, … policy makers is leading. 

D. Vote negative to do the aff - this divorces the merits of their proposal from market logic and competition which is the logical conclusion of their 1AC ev, it's their burden to prove why the 1AC is a reason to vote aff. 

====T - Mandate Squo==== 

A. Interpretation – the aff has to be a substantial change from status quo policy – not a reduction based on the hypothetical possibility the U.S. deviates from that policy. 

Substantially means real at present time 
Words and Phrases 1964 (40 W&P 759) (this edition of W&P is out of print; the page number no longer matches up to the current edition and I was unable to find the card in the new edition. However, this card is also available on google books, Judicial and statutory definitions of words and phrases, Volume 8, p. 7329) 
The words “outward … App. 308, 318. 

Reduce means to diminish quantitatively 
Oxford English Dictionary, 89 (online, at Emory) 
reduce, v. 26. a. … to a single thing. 

B. Violation - The U.S. is committed to the deadlines now 
Los Angeles Times 7/29 (Usama Redha, 7/29/10, " Deadly assault exposes Iraq's delicate state of security ", http://www.latimes.com/news/nationworld/world/la-fg-iraq-mayhem-20100730,0,4501378.story) 
Meanwhile, officials say … June of last year. 

C. Vote Neg – 

1. Ground - no disads compete off of the 1% chance that the U.S. doesn’t do the plan now. ALL links are nonunique because the aff IS status quo policy. 

2. Mixes Burdens – they mix topicality with inherency – all of their args are based on the effect of the plan not its mandate - means the same aff is topical in one round but not another, makes establishing a predictable case list impossible 


====T - Strategy Shift==== 

Presence refers to deployed forces and infrastructure – DOD definition 
GAO, 1 – General Accounting Office (“EUROPEAN SECURITY U.S. and European Contributions to Foster Stability and Security in Europe,” November, http://www.investigativeproject.org/documents/testimony/214.pdf 
DOD defines overseas presence as the mix of permanently stationed forces, rotationally deployed forces, temporarily deployed forces, and infrastructure required to conduct the full range of military operations. 


Violation- the plan changes the strategy of our troops in Afghanistan 

Vote negative 
Limits- infinite possible strategies that we could transition to. Allows the negative to spike out of generic das because the new strategy causes bidirectionality they could say transition to a COIN strategy and say COIN good on the AFF 

Extra Topicality- takes extra resolutional action even if part of their plan text reduces troops the strategy shift isn’t topical. Strategy shift das are negative ground exta t justifies them spiking out of all of our DA’s impossible to be negative.


====T - Substantially (HTS)==== 

1. Interpretation – a substantial reduction must be at least 50% 
Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act, 92 (1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis) 
TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION AT … and moved to another installation. 

2. Violation - There are fewer than 300 HTS members deployed abroad 
Kimberlin, 10 (Joanne, September 29, The Virginian-Pilot, “Part 1: New weapon in an old war in Afghanistan,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://hamptonroads.com/2010/09/part-1-new-weapon-old-war]]</span>, TH) 
Eventually, HTS took on a shape … funded by a $150 million budget. 

That’s .4% of our military presence in Afghanistan 
Kuhner, 9 - the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal (Jeffrey, Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic) 
America is losing the war … bolstering coalition forces to 110,000. 

Police presence refers to military personnel engaged in police missions 
Bauschard 10 (Stefan, Author of the Topic Paper, April 4, “Introductory Topic Essay” http://www.planetdebate.com/blogs/view/819) 
According to Wikipedia, a “police” force … policing operations and reduce those. 

3. Vote Neg 

A. Limits – they explode the topic and allow tons of unpredictable and small affs making negative preparation impossible 

B. Ground – our interp locks in key negative generics like deterrence – they allow miniscule affirmatives which don’t change overall U.S. strategy

====T - Substantially (NARC)==== 

1. Interpretation - a substantial reduction must be at least 50% 
Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act, 92 (1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis) 
TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION … to another installation. 

Presence refers to military and police personnel stationed in a region 
Macmillian, 2010 (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.macmillandictionary.com/dictionary/british/presence]]</span>, TH) 
[Singular] a group of people, especially soldiers or police, who are in a place for a particular purpose 

2. Violation - 

We have 200 counter-narcotics personnel in Afghanistan 
Budget Activity 04, (Drug Interdiction and Counterdrug Activities, Administrative and Service-Wide Activities, Global War On Terror (GWOT)/Regional War on Terror (RWOT), COUNTERNARCOTICS, TH) 
Expanding Afghan … and in Afghanistan. 

100 of those are DEA agents 
Holton 10 (Chuck, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.cbn.com/cbnnews/world/2010/April/DEA-Agents-Target-Afghanistans-Narco-Insurgency/]]</span>, date accessed: 6/23/2010) 
Five years ago … illegal drug activity. 

That’s .3% of our total presence in Afghanistan 
Kuhner, 9 - the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal (Jeffrey, Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic) 
America is losing … forces to 110,000. 

That’s 6% of our police presence 
Wilkes 8 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.dod.mil/dodgc/olc/docs/testWilkes080618.pdf|__http://www.dod.mil/dodgc/olc/docs/testWilkes080618.pdf__]]</span>
CSTC-A, in conjunction … units and organizations. 

3. Vote Neg 

A. Limits – they explode the topic and allow tons of unpredictable and small affs making negative preparation impossible 

B. Ground – our interp locks in key negative generics like deterrence – they allow miniscule affirmatives which don’t change overall U.S. strategy 


===Counterplans=== 

====<span style="font-weight: normal; line-height: 20px;">COIN CP</span>==== 

The United States federal government should substantially increase its counter-insurgency presence in Afghanistan by 
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">- </span>shifting operations to an integrated civil-military strategy aimed at building infrastructure and winning localized support, </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">- </span>increasing funding and training for Afghanistan police and military forces including recruitment efforts and improving military supplies </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">- </span>shifting strategy to a civil aid and development focus as soon as strategically viable, </span>

the United States federal government should set 2015 as the year to reconsider military operations in Afghanistan and at that point, conditional on support by United States military officials, should shift to a counterterrorism focus strategy.

CP solves – absent scaling forward our “build” and “hold” efforts in Afghanistan, we will lose. 
Cordesman 9/8 (Anthony, Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy @ CSIS, “Afghan National Security Forces: What It Will Take to Implement the ISAF Strategy” pg. 207 bb) 
Whether or not the Obama … establish lasting security and stability.

=====Credibility Plank===== 

the United States federal government should streamline Iraqi refugee resettlement programs and massively expand necessary eligibility caps to meet demand 

Solves credibility: strongest, most immediate way to signal shift in foreign policy from Bush 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Win ‘8</span></span> [Hanna Ingber Win is the World Editor of the Huffington Post, July 9, 2008, “Obama, McCain Skirt Iraqi Refugee Issue,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/hanna-ingber-win/obama-mccain-skirt-iraqi_b_111710.html] 
Dash has spent the last year ... that the war has presented.” 

=====Withdrawal NB===== 

Small footprint causes Taliban takeover, nuclear terrorism, and Indo-Pak war 
Kagan and Kagan 9 - * former prof of military history @ West Point AND military historian (Fredrick W., Kimberly, “Don't Go Wobbly on Afghanistan”, 10/12/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/101110)
It is very likely that … the use of nuclear weapons.

Annihilates international cred, emboldens adversaries and sends signal we’re undependable.
Twining ‘9 (Dan, Senior Fellow for Asia – German Marshall Fund of the US, former Member of Sec. State. Condi Rice’s Policy Planning Staff, former Transatlantic Fellow and Dir. Of Foreign Policy Program – German Marshall Fund of the US, “The stakes in Afghanistan go well beyond Afghanistan”, 9-30, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan)
The surreal belief in some… our interests nor our values.

=====COIN NB===== 

COIN inevitable now, multiple factors make US involvement in future conflicts assured
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Miller ‘3</span></span>, Thomas Erik, Maj., US Army; School of Advanced Military Studies, US Army Command and General Staff College (“Counterinsurgency and Operational Art: Is the Joint Campaign Planning Model Adequate?,” http://smallwarsjournal.com/documents/miller.pdf, p. 1-7)
The United States (US) has conducted ... currently 58 ongoing peace missions.

The alternative to COIN is “coercion”-based genocide of enemies – increases local sympathy and makes conflict unwinnable
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Kahl ‘7</span></span> Colin H., Asst Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown U; Fellow, Center for a New American Security (“COIN of the Realm,” Foreign Affairs, Nov/Dec 2007, [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63035/colin-h-kahl/coin-of-the-realm?page=show]]) Notes: COIN FM = The US Army/Marine Corps Counterinsurgency Field Manual
The most powerful <span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">critique</span></span> of ... extremists without alienating the populace."

====COIN CP V2==== 

Conditioned withdrawal is key – allows effective training of the ANSF while ensuring both long-term and short-term stability 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">O’Hanlon & Riedel ’11</span></span> (Michael, Senior Fellow and director of research at Brookings, and Bruce, Fellow in the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings, “Plan A-Minus for Afghanistan” The Washington Quarterly) 
<span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">Tying troop drawdowns …</span></span> ISAF/NATO troop reductions. 

Switching to counter-terror now fails – causes Taliban sanctuary, terrorist attacks, civil war, and insufficient resources 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">O’Hanlon & Riedel ’11</span></span> (Michael, Senior Fellow and director of research at Brookings, and Bruce, Fellow in the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings, “Plan A-Minus for Afghanistan” The Washington Quarterly) 
Among other consequences, <span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">…</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> the United States.</span></span>


==== ==== 
====Congress CP==== 
The United States Congress should end funding for [plan].


The Counterplan solves the case and is distinct- Congress cannot order a withdrawal and can ONLY end funding- the plan HAS to use the president- Ending funding precipitates a withdrawal
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">Rosen, </span></span>2k<span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">7</span></span> (Jeffrey Rosen is the legal affairs editor of The New Republic and author of The Most Democratic Branch: How the Courts Serve America. "In Wartime, Who Has the Power?" http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/04/weekinreview/04rosen.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1) </span>
Legal scholars — both critics and ... for specified numbers of troops.

And, Using the Power of the Purse unilaterally is the clearest way to stop presidential actions and establish congressional precedent - it can end executive hegemony and restore checks and balances
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">Raven-Hansen and Banks, 94</span></span> (Peter Raven-Hansen Rsearch Professor of Law, The National Law Center, George Washington University, William C. Banks Professor of Law Syracuse University College of Law Virginia Law Review May, 1994 80 Va. L. Rev. 833 “Pulling The Purse Strings Of The Commander In Chief”) </span>
In the particular context of ...<span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;"> on executive </span></span>national security <span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">practices. </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Executive hegemony eliminates structural barriers making all nuclear wars more likely </span>
<span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">Forrester</span></span>, Law Professor at Hastings & Former Dean of the law schools at Vanderbilt, Tulane, & Cornell, <span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">89</span></span> (Ray, “Presidential Wars in the Nuclear Age: An Unresolved Problem,” The George Washington Law Review, AUGUST, 57 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 1636)
<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">A basic theory--</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">if not ... executive power to make war.</span>

====Euphemisms CP==== 

Text: The United States federal government should eliminate the United States Department of Defense and create an identical United States Department of War. The United States Department of War should [plan]. 

Our political speech and writing has become infected by a reliance on euphemism. The term Department of Defense elevates this doublespeak, pushing aside the mental image of the wrongs the U.S. commits. 
Fischer, 2007 (Judith, Winter, assistant professor of law – Louisville, “Why George Orwell’s Ideas About Language Still Matter for Lawyers,” 68 Mont. L. Rev. 129) 
Orwell objected to … often to defend "the indefensible." n177 

Using the term the Department of Defense pre-justifies every action it takes as good 
Herman, 2005 (Edward June 2, professor of economics at University of Pennsylvania, “From Ingsoc And Newspeak To Amcap, Amerigood, And Marketspeak” On Nineteen Eighty-Four: Orwell and Our Future 112, 123, TH, http://www.zmag.org/znet/viewArticle/6139) 
Although 1984 was … like that budget sharply cut. [4] 

This ordering is precisely statism’s continual intervention and calculation of populations as disposable, making nuclear extinction inevitable 
Kateb 92 ( George, Professor of Politics and Director of the Program in Political Philosophy at Princeton, The Inner Ocean p. 121-123) 
I have said that … and human extinction. 


====Iraq Conditions CP==== 

The United States federal government should offer to phase out all non-peacekeeping military and police presence from Iraq only if the Republic of Iraq agrees to a new State of Forces Agreement that preserves the ability of American forces to serve as peacekeepers in the Republic of Iraq. The offer should not include a timetable for withdrawal. The SOFA should include that future aid will be conditioned upon agreement with American policy requests and positive constitutional changes. The United States should maintain throughout the negotiations that the United States can walk away from the negotiating table. 

Solves the aff and they’ll say yes 
Pollack et al. 12/2 (Kenneth M. Pollack, Director, Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Raad Alkadiri, Partner and Head of Global Risk, PFC Energy, J. Scott Carpenter, Keston Family Fellow, Washington Institute for Near East Policy, Frederick W. Kagan, Resident Scholar, American Enterprise Institute, Sean Kane, Program Officer for Iraq, United States Institute for Peace “UNFINISHED BUSINESS: An American Strategy for Iraq Moving Forward” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/12_iraq_strategy_pollack/12_iraq_strategy_pollack.pdf]]</span> bb) 
It is hard to … such a SOFA. 

Conditioning the CP on agreement to status of forces agreement solves and avoids a backslide to civil war and violence that spillsover. 
Pollack et al. 12/2 (Kenneth M. Pollack, Director, Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Raad Alkadiri, Partner and Head of Global Risk, PFC Energy, J. Scott Carpenter, Keston Family Fellow, Washington Institute for Near East Policy, Frederick W. Kagan, Resident Scholar, American Enterprise Institute, Sean Kane, Program Officer for Iraq, United States Institute for Peace, Unfinished Business: An American Strategy for Iraq Moving Forward” http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2010/12_iraq_strategy_pollack.aspx bb) 
Iraq still hangs … and effective governance. 

American peacekeepers solve violence and solve Iraqi government legitimacy by checking corruption 
Pollack et al. 12/2 (Kenneth M. Pollack, Director, Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Raad Alkadiri, Partner and Head of Global Risk, PFC Energy, J. Scott Carpenter, Keston Family Fellow, Washington Institute for Near East Policy, Frederick W. Kagan, Resident Scholar, American Enterprise Institute, Sean Kane, Program Officer for Iraq, United States Institute for Peace “UNFINISHED BUSINESS: An American Strategy for Iraq Moving Forward” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/events/2010/1202_iraq_strategy/20101202_iraq_strategy.pdf bb) 
First, we believe … or abusive system.”


====Joint Cap CP==== 

Through the Nato-Russia Council, the United States federal government should enter into a joint cap treaty with Russia on Tactical Nuclear Weapons in Turkey, and couple the ratification with implementation of a Cooperative Threat Reduction Program to store and dismantle the tactical nuclear weapons. The United States federal government should support the elimination of Tactical Nuclear Weapons in Turkey throughout the process. 

A joint-cap on TNW’s solves – it boosts Russian relations they would say yes 
Brian Alexander & Alistair Millar, pub. date: 2003, Brian Alexander is the policy dir. of the Cuba Policy Foundation, previously he worked as a research analyst on nonproliferation issues @ the Fourth Freedom Forum, Alistair Millar is vice president of the Fourth Freedom Forum and dir. of its Washington, D.C. office, Millar formerly served as a senior analyst @ the British-American Security Information Council, Tactical nuclear weapons: emergent threats in an evolving security environment, p. 146, accessed: 9-13-09, Google Books 
Creating a joint cap … deterring conventional war. 

US-Russia alliance and cooperation is moving but on the brink – treaty now is key 
Pifer 10/14 (Steven, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Center on the United States and Europe, "Washington, Moscow, and Nuclear Security,"

Brookings, pg. 2 bb)

No two countries … secure nuclear world. 

A strong alliance is key to key to preventing arctic territorial disputes 
Lisken ‘9 Alexander, Staff Writer for Ria Novosti, A Leading Russian News Source (“ U.S. analyst says NATO-Russia Council ideal for Arctic talks”, http://en.rian.ru/world/20090527/155103313.html) 
MOSCOW, May 27 … by North Korea. 

Left unchecked, these disputes lead to a US-Russia war 
Zellen ‘7- Barry, Security Innovator, “The Polar Show Down: As the Arctic's ice begins to melt, a new race for its undersea resources begins” August 23, 2007 http://securityinnovator.com/index.php?articleID=12387§ionID=43 
In response to … next 20 years.” 

Only scenario for extinction. 
Bostrom 2 (Nick Bostrom, 2002. Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies at Yale. "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," 38, www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html) 
A much greater … humankind’s potential permanently.


====Referendums CP==== 


Text: The United States federal government should hold a binding national referendum over whether [plan]. The result of the referendum should be unconditionally implemented and enforced.

We must break with the structures of representative democracy – they destroy the power of the commons to create productive power relations that destroy biopolitical control. We must revitalize old concepts to allow direct decisionmaking by the multitude
Hardt and Negri (nerd; terrorist) 9 (Michael, Antonio, Commonwealth, pg. 304-6)
The metaphor of a great conversation … endowed together with the power of decision.

Being unable to mobilize power positively for the multitude turns the case and makes war inevitable
Marks ‘8 (John, Assoc. Prof. in French, University of Nottingham, “Michel Foucault: Biopolitics and Biology,” Foucault in an age of terror: Essays on biopolitics and the Defence of Society, Eds. Stephen Morton and Stephen Bygrave, p. 97-98)
Although biopower in this sense … of the entire German population.12

Binding referendums on military presence are the ideal way to reframe current institutions – allows direct control of the multitude. Representative structures depoliticize issues by leaving policymaking up to technocrats and depoliticize the public sphere
Rourke et al. (Professor of Political Science @ UConn) 92 (John T., Direct Democracy and International Politics, p. 17-19)
The difference between negative and … it under the title politics.



===Critiques=== 


====Anthropocentrism K==== 

Spanos’ ontology is thoroughly anthropocentric – he sees humanity as bearing a burden for caring for the rest of the world, even Spanos considers himself a humanist 
Stanescu, 2006 (James, Grad Student at Binghamton, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=974849&]]</span>, TH) 
So thursday was … answered your question.

This turns the case – their ontology merely expands what counts as civilized life, rather than contesting the devision between human and non-human 
Stanescu, 2006 (James, Grad Student at Binghamton, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=974849&]]</span>, TH) 
Humanism (for Spanos) … valorization of life. 

Speciesism must be rejected—the ongoing killing of animals is the equivalent of a continuous Holocaust and slavery. Additionally, this domination over animals is the root cause of all violence, genocide, and war—the k turns and solves the case. 
Best 07—Associate Professor of Department of Humanities and Philosophy @ UT-El Paso [Dr. Steven, “Commonalities of Oppression: Specieism, Racism, and Oppression” 
In this context … against animals. 

The alternative is vote negative to jam the anthropological machine and its ability to create distinctions between species forms – only breaking away from an ontology of human vs. animal allows us to solve 
Calarco ‘7 (Matthew, Assist. Prof. of Philosophy @ SUNY Binghamton, “Jamming the Anthropological Machine,” Sovereignty & Life, pgs. 178-179 bb) 
It should come … irreparable and unsavable? 

====<span style="font-weight: normal;">Capitalism K</span>==== 

=====Herod Version===== 

The aff’s “we should” mentality is a fundamentally bankrupt political strategy – the government is not benevolent and merely messing up, it is pursuing the 1AC’s policies of destruction on purpose. The political question of the 1AC is fundamentally irrelevant because it assumes a democracy that doesn’t exist – we cannot “fix” the government’s policies because in the government’s view, they are already correct
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Herod 2001</span></span> (James, “A Stake, Not a Mistake: On Not Seeing the Enemy”, October, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jamesherod.info/index.php?sec=paper&id=9]]</span> Accessed 6/27/10)
So what has been<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the ...</span></span> this series of haunting mistakes?"

We must directly engage the violence of political economy- attempting to address particular glitches within the system of capital ensures its smooth functioning because it reproduces it as a symbolic background for politics- smashing this frame is a pre-requisite to ethical action
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zizek and Daly ‘4</span></span> (Slavoj and Glyn, “Conversations with Zizek”, pg. 14-16)
For Zizek it is imperative ... in an otherwise sound matrix.

The alternative is to reject the aff in favor of broad-based bottom up movements – we must abandon old institutions of Empire.
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sherman, 2k10</span></span> (Steven, “The Empire of Bases and the American Anti-War Movement”, Dissident Voice, March 10,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dissidentvoice.org/2010/03/the-empire-of-bases-and-the-american-anti-war-movement/]]</span>)
The<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> anti-war movement</span></span> in the ... of Latin America, among others).

=====Materialism Version===== 

The affirmative’s textual games are necessary to capitalism’s functioning – we must begin from a material criticism of capitalism 
Ebert in 95 (Teresa L., English, State University of New York, Albany, Rethinking Marxism
Association for Economic and Social Analysis, vol 8 no 2, The Knowable Good--Post-al Ethics,
the Question of Justice and Red Feminism, index found here, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/gr/gsce/d/rm.htm#95]]</span>, article here, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.geocities.com/redtheory/AO/AOVol5-1RedFeminism.html]]</span> ) 
What remains of ... stages of capitalism.

We must directly engage the violence of political economy- attempting to address particular glitches within the system of capital ensures its smooth functioning because it reproduces it as a symbolic background for politics- smashing this frame is a pre-requisite to ethical action 
Zizek and Daly ‘4 (Slavoj and Glyn, “Conversations with Zizek”, pg. 14-16) 
For Zizek it ... otherwise sound matrix.

The Alternative is to practice nothingness. Our withdrawal clears the way for revolutionary activity – negativity is a pre-requisite to positive political change. 
Vighi and Feldner, 2009 (Fabio, PhD, lecturer in Italian at the School of European Studies at Cardiff University, and Heiko, PhD, Lecturer in Modern German History at Cardiff University, “Pathological Attachments: Slavoj Zizek on Anticapitalism and Liberal Democracy,” Rethinking Marxism Volume 21 Number 2, April, p. 295-296, TH) 
From this viewpoint ... comes into play.

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Counter-Terror K</span>==== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The aff’s reduction in Afghan troops creates a shift to a counter-terrorism posture- that forms a violent binary between legitimate state violence and illegitimate non-state violence</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jackson, 2009</span></span> (Richard, Reader in International Politics at Aberystwyth University, where he is also a senior researcher in the Centre for the Study of Radicalisation and Contemporary Political Violence (CSRV), “Knowledge, power and politics in the study of political terrorism,” in “Critical terrorism studies: a new research agenda,” ed: Richard Jackson, p. 73-74, TH)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A final set of … over several decades (see Stohl, 1979, 2008).</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This shift in strategy ensures massive escalation – state terrorism is historically the largest proximate cause of violent death – non-state terrorism can’t hold a candle to it</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jackson et al, 2008</span></span> (Richard, Reader in International Politics at Aberystwyth University, where he is also a senior researcher in the Centre for the Study of Radicalisation and Contemporary Political Violence (CSRV), Eamon Murphy, Professor of History and International Relations at Curtin University of Technology in Western Australia, and Scott Poynting, Professor in Sociology, Manchester Metropolitan University, “Introduction,” in “Contemporary State Terrorism: Theory and practice,” p. 1-2, TH)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">By all accounts, <span class="underLight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> war on terrori</span></span>sm.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Terror studies colonizes academic debate over Afghanistan policy, forming an epistemic community which reinforces dominant power structures– be suspicious of the self-referential nature of their authors’ scholarship</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jackson et al, 2009</span></span> (Richard Jackson, Reader in International Politics at Aberystwyth University, where he is also a senior researcher in the Centre for the Study of Radicalisation and Contemporary Political Violence (CSRV), Marie Breen Smyth and Jeroen Gunning, “Critical terrorism studies: Framing a new research agenda,” in “Critical terrorism studies: a new research agenda,” ed: Richard Jackson, p. 217-221, TH)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A related weakness … now criminal offences.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Refusing a counter-terror framing of Afghan military presence creates space for new forms of academic engagement with US foreign policy- only a strong democratic ethos can challenge the assumption that state-based violence is legitimate</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">George ‘2</span></span>, (Professor of Political Science at California State University, Long Beach, “9-11: Pharmacotic War”, //Theory and Event//, 5:4, Project Muse)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Resolving the international …</span></span> <span class="underLight"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">remedy is politics</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span></span>

=====New Alt===== 


<span style="tab-stops: 153.0pt 191.0pt;">the aff uses the wrong starting point- we must investigate the nature and context of the war on terror before debating coin vs ct- only this approach can create a more just frame for foreign policy </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Gorka & Kilcullen ’11</span></span> (Sebastian L.v., Teaches on the Faculty of the college of International security Affairs at the National Defense U. and Military Affairs Fellow with the Foundation for Defense of Democracy, and David, Counterinsurgency Advisor to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, International security Assistance Force, the U.S. Government, and other governments, “An Actor-centric Theory of War: Understanding the Difference Between COIN and Counterinsurgency,” Issue 60.1, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA535254&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]] bb) 
The depth of ... “War is war.”


====<span style="font-weight: normal;">Deterrence K</span>==== 

The aff is a performance of credibility for the other - it centers political decisionmaking around the question of how we believe other people perceive us. This belief in the other's belief constructs a system of deterrence which we use as a code to dictate for us how to conduct our military policy. 
McCanles ’84, (Michael, Prof. of English @ Marquette, Machiavelli and the Paradoxes of Deterrence, Diacritics, Vol. 14, No. 2, Nuclear Criticism, (Summer, 1984), pp. 12-19, JSTOR) 
On the one hand, the ...** until the text posits it. 

Wars are not isolated events or accidents. Instead, breakdowns are embedded in the very fabric of the international system itself and can only come out of the dangerous situation produced by deterrence. A “fog of war” ensures uncertainty in our knowledge of the other’s belief, The aff obscures our role in producing situations of danger and creating the conditions for violence. 
Chaloupka ’92, (William, Chair of Political Science @ Colorado State, Knowing Nukes, pgs. 12-16) 
Even our best signs of ... the bases for fateful decisions."45 

The aff’s mediation of their military reduction with the symbolic economy of deterrence ensures genocide and destruction 
Zupancic ‘00, (Alenka, Ethics of the Real: Kant and Lacan, March, p. 96-7) 
“Another problem still remains, however: ... a by-product' of our actions. 

Thus the alternative: In the face of the 1ac, the judge should vote negative to say “I would prefer not to.” 

While the affirmative plan remains trapped in the logic of deterrence, the pure negativity of our alternative refuses to acknowledge “belief in the other’s belief”- only our strategy of radical indifference can wipe the slate of politics clean and open space for new modes of decisionmaking 
Zizek ‘6, (Slavoj, Institute for Social Sciences Ljubljana, The Parallax View, pgs. 380-384) 
And this brings us back ... makes his presence so unbearable. 


====Plans Good K==== 

Gotta have a plan—failure to have a concrete option we can debate against guarantees that oppression continues and efforts for change backfire 
STEVE 2007 (Anonymous member of Black Block and Active Transformation who lives in East Lansing, MI, Date Last Mod. Feb 8, http://www.nadir.org/nadir/initiativ/agp/free/global/a16dcdiscussion.htm) 
What follows is … a new state. 

Vote Negative: 
First, the Aff should lose—lack of a concrete plan makes any positive change impossible either in debate or the world at large and only empowers reactionary forces—they undermine the purpose of debate which is to teach us good decision-making skills that we can use in any context 

Second, this is not a framework argument—whether debate is about policy, activism, or identity, plans are necessary for practical reasons—this is a solvency turn, not a normative rule or a theory argument 

Third, it undermines clash—it’s impossible to engage their ideas if we don’t know what they are—that clash is critical to develop strategies and test ideas which eventually result in social change 
BRANHAM 1995 (Robert, Professor of Rhetoric at Bates College, Argumentation and Advocacy, Winter) 
In the years … generated by confrontation.

====Ranciere K==== 

The affirmative’s critical pedagogy starts from the assumption of a privileged access to truth, as if they and nobody else recognize that policymaking and military presence is wrong, and that we, the negative, and the debate community at large, are shrouded in ideology and thus blind to this truth. 

This is but one example of how critical pedagogy begins from the assumption of inequality, claiming that the oppressed are unable to escape their current situation because of how power and ideology operates on them. This places the critical pedagogue in a position of mastery – it is only the superior insight and explication of the affirmative that makes supposed “emancipation” possible. But this conception of emancipation is inherently contradictory and only recreates the oppression of the poor. 
Biesta, 10 (Gert, @ the Stirling Institute of Education, “A New Logic of Emancipation: The Methodology of Jacques Ranciere,” Educational Theory, 60.1, p. 43-46 TH) 
Whereas the idea … in the first place. 

The alternative is to approach emancipation from the presupposition of equality. 

While the affirmative’s critical pedagogy begins from the starting point of inequality, our alternative begins from the opposite starting point, the presupposition of equality. This allows for a conception of emancipation and teaching which affirms the capacity of everyone to equally utilize the capacity for thought. 
Biesta, 10 (Gert, @ the Stirling Institute of Education, “A New Logic of Emancipation: The Methodology of Jacques Ranciere,” Educational Theory, 60.1, p.53-55 TH) 
The question of … view of emancipation. 

===Disads=== 

====<span style="font-weight: normal;">Alliance DA</span>==== 

U.S. ground forces key to maintain a credible nuclear guarantee for Seoul 
Payne, et. al, 10 – Professor in Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University (March 2010, Dr. Keith Payne, Study Director Thomas Scheber Kurt Guthe, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf]]</span>, JMP) 
Forward deployment of forces, then … essential to the nuclear guarantee. 

Prevents South Korean prolif 
Hughes, 2007 [Christopher W., PhD University of Sheffield, 1997, Reader/Associate Professor, University of Warwick. “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan,” January, Asia Policy No 3, http://www.nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP3/AP3Hughes.pdf] 
South Korea’s history of considering … reaffirmation of U.S. security guarantees.54 

Escalates to global nuclear war 
Cirincione, 2000 – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor) 
The blocks would fall quickest … a nuclear weapon since 1945.

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Defense Cuts DA</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Defense cuts are coming now – post-midterm budget will kill F-35 second-engine program </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Gerson Lerhman Group 11/4 (“FY 2011 DoD budget overdue; Lockheed Martin JSF faces probable cuts” </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">http://www.glgroup.com/News/FY-2011-DoD-budget-overdue-Lockheed-Martin-JSF-faces-probable-cuts-51337.html bb) </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Both the House … in the program. </span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">(Insert Link) </span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">And, Lower demand from America key to kill Canadian f35 purchases </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Geddes 10/13 (John, Defense Analyst @ Macleans, “Joint Strike Fighter costs are soaring” http://www2.macleans.ca/2010/10/13/costs-are-soaring-too/ bb) </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">But Slack says … be Canada’s worry. </span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Canadian f35 purchase Causes arctic war with Russia </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">ONeill 10/31 (Juliet, Defense Writer @ Vancouver Sun, “Canada's F-35 buy could trigger Arctic arms race: Expert” http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=21704 bb) </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">A government purchase … and maintenance costs. </span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Draws in America, causes global nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">Zellen ‘7- Barry, Security Innovator, “The Polar Show Down: As the Arctic's ice begins to melt, a new race for its undersea resources begins” August 23, 2007 http://securityinnovator.com/index.php?articleID=12387§ionID=43 </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">In response to … next 20 years.”</span>


====<span style="font-weight: normal;">Japanification DA</span>==== 


US economy strong – but plan causes japanification and collapses economy 
Fackler 10/16 (NYT Columnist, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/17/world/asia/17japan.html?partner=rss&emc=rss bb) 
“We’re not Japan,” said Robert … dire forecasts come to pass. 

Defense key to the economy – research and jobs 
Dov S. Zakheim former Undersecretary of Defense, Dr. Zakheim is an FPRI trustee. March 2009. Before the House Committee on Armed Services. “Security Challenges Arising from the Global Economic Crisis” 
Moreover, the lower rate of defense … will be profound, and negative. 

Extinction 
Friedberg & Schoenfeld ‘8 (Aaron, professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel, Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, The Dangers of a Diminished America, WSJ, 10/21, Proquest) 
Protectionist sentiments are sure to … internal travails with external adventures. 

====NATO DA==== 

Abandoning the 2014 plan collapses NATO defense modernization 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Washington Post, Nov 26</span></span> (Editorial, 2010, “NATO's Afghan commitment” google) 
THE WAR in … to act alone. 

Modernization is the key to check Russian aggression. 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Cohen, 2008</span></span> (Ariel Cohen, Ph.D., James Jay Carafano, Ph.D. and Lajos Szaszdi, Ph.D., “Russian Forces in the Georgian War: Preliminary Assessment and Recommendations” August 20) 
In addition, <span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">instead …</span></span> against European countries. 

Global nuclear war. 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Blank, 2009</span></span> (Stephen J. Blank, strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago, March 2009. “Russia and Arms Control: Are there opportunities for the Obama Administration?” google) 
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">Proliferators or nuclear … their own people.172</span>

====<span style="font-weight: normal;">Okinawa Econ DA</span>==== 

US military presence on Okinawa is crucial to sustain the Japanese economy 
Michael, 2/06 (R.D., Captain in the Marine Corps Combat Development Command and writer for the Expeditionary Warfare School Contemporary Issue Paper, “Okinawa: The Economic Repercussions for Closing the U.S. Bases,” EWS, pg-1 ag) 
The United States military bases are … personnel on the local economy. 

Japanese economy is key to the global economy and to check back Chinese nuclear conflict 
The Guardian, 2/11/02 (“Defenseless Japan Awaits Typhoon,” pg online @ lexis ag) 
Even so, the west cannot … its bigger (and nuclear) neighbour. 

Economic decline causes global instability and nuclear war. 
Mead, 09 – Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (2/4, Walter Russell, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger”, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2) 
It's not just the great … may still have to fight. 

====START DA==== 

START will pass but it’s close – vote counts and better than any card you have 
<span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bergman 11/4</span></span> (Max, Political Analyst @ Wonk Room, “Elections Shouldn’t Impact START Ratification” 
http://wonkroom.thinkprogress.org/2010/11/04/elections-shouldnt-impact-start-ratification/ bb) 
There has been a lot of ... vote on the Senate floor? 

Political capital key to winning over conservatives and special interests 
Michael <span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krepon</span></span>, Co-founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center and the author or editor of thirteen books and over 350 articles, <span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10/19</span></span>. “Scare Tactics,” http://krepon.armscontrolwonk.com/archive/2904/scare-tactics 
<span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">Arms control battles</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in the ... a very </span></span><span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">smart game plan</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span></span>

START key to solve accidents, food wars, terrorism and key to Pakistan, Yemen, Iraq, Afghanistan 
<span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lambers 11/4</span></span> (William, Author of "Ending World Hunger: School Lunches for Kids Around the World," features over 50 interviews with officials from the United Nations World Food Programme, Catholic Relief Services, World Vision, ChildsLife International and Shakira's Barefoot Foundation, frequent contributor to US newspapers, “Ratify START Treaty and Fight Global Hunger” http://blogcritics.org/culture/article/senate-ratify-start-treaty-and-fight/ bb) 
During some of the most ...<span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;"> on ST<span style="border: none;">ART and food security.</span></span></span>

Food shortages = World War III 
William <span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calvin</span></span>, theoretical neurophysiologist at the University of Washington, Atlantic Monthly, January, The Great Climate Flip-Flop, Vol 281, No. 1, 19<span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">98</span></span>, p. 47-64 
The population-crash scenario is ... warming from the North Atlantic. 

Accidents mean extinction in an hour 
<span class="CitesChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Giacomo ‘3</span></span> Writer for Common Dreams. “Experts Fear US-Russia nuclear miscalculation” http://www. commondreams.org/headlines03/ 0522-03.htm 
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">A </span></span><span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">study by</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span class="underLight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">RAND</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8pt;"> ... on incorrect or incomplete information.</span>