[[toc]]
=Topicality Answers= 

=Topicality Violations and Cards= 

==Ground Forces== 
===1NC Violation=== 

**Interpretation: “Military” means land forces**
**American Heritage Dictionary, 09** (“Military,” http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/military)
4. Of or relating to land forces.

**Violation –the aff includes the Air Force or Navy**

===2NC External Offense=== 

**And, there’s a huge DA to their interpretation – they destroy public discourse on military issues which solves war and democracy**
**Hanson, 07** (Victor Davis Hanson, Professor of Classics at CSU Fullerton, “Why Study War?” City Journal, Summer)
It’s no surprise that civilian Americans...the past, have a moral obligation to stop them.

===2NC Education Offense=== 

**They undermine education on the topic—this evidence also supports our ground and limits claims**
**Till, 06** (Geoffrey, Professor of Maritime Studies in the Defence Studies Department of King's College, The development of British naval thinking: essays in memory of Bryan McLaren Ranft, p. 130)
Accordingly, the aim of professional...could all too easily become ‘insufficiently naval’.

**The real strategic debate is about land versus air strategy—this resolves the myth of lethal air power and is a key internal link to our Hansen education impact**
**Press, 01** (Daryl, Assistant Professor in the Government Department and a Research Fellow at the Rockefeller Center at Dartmouth College. He is also an Associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University, International Security, Fall)
The conventional wisdom among historians...assets and light ground forces. If a war occurs, they may pay a cost in higher casualties if they have too few heavy ground forces.

**The term “military” has a limited application—Naval strategy is distinct and broader**
**Mahan, 1911** (Alfred Thayer Mahan, Naval strategy compared and contrasted with the principles and practice of military operations on land: lectures delivered at U.S. Naval War College, Newport, R.I., between the years 1887-1911, pp. 121-122)
The definitions of strategy, as usually...necessity of such possessions, which are acquired, as the French writer says, when opportunity offers.

===2NC Definition Extensions=== 

**The adjective “military” refers to land forces – our evidence makes the distinction**
**Spiritus Temporis, 05** (History website, “Military,” http://www.spiritus-temporis.com/military/meaning-of-the-word.html)
In formal British English...matters of the other two services

**The word “troops” refers to soldiers**
**DICTIONARY.COM, 10** (http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/troops)
troops, a body of soldiers...quelled the riot.

**“Soldier” means a member of land forces**
**Wikipedia, 10** (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soldier#cite_note-0)
A soldier is...termed a mercenary.


==Subsets== 

===1NC=== 

**Interpretations –**

**First, the word ‘in’ means throughout**
**Words and Phrases, 08** (Permanent Edition, vol. 20a, p. 207)
Colo. 1887. In the Act...“in” should be construed to mean “throughout” such counties. Reynolds v. Larkin, 14, p. 114, 117, 10 Colo. 126.

**Second, presence must occur within countries**
**Dilag, 05** - Major (Select), United States Air Force (Bayani, “ACCESS ISSUES ASSOCIATED WITH U.S. MILITARY PRESENCE IN THAILAND AND THE PHILIPPINES,” http://edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/theses/2005/Mar/05Mar_Dilag.pdf)
The RAND Corporation...countries for the purpose of an ongoing military mission where there may or may not be treaty commitments.30

**Third, “Military” includes the Navy, Marines, Army, Air Force, and Coast Guard**
**Random History, 07** (History website; all authors have at least a BA, many have advanced degrees, “Pluralism, Expansionism, and Democracy: A History of the U.S. Military,” Random History and Word Origins for the Curious Mind, December 14, http://www.randomhistory.com/1-50/020military.html)
In many ways, the history...been this way.

**Violation – the aff doesn’t remove all military presence within _______.**

===2NC Limits=== 

**Any risk of limits causes people to quit**
**Rowland, 84** (Robert C., Baylor U., “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective. Ed. Parson, p. 53-4)
The first major problem identified...topics that has led some small schools to cancel their programs.

===2NC Bidirectionality=== 

**They make the topic bidirectional---undercuts predictability**
**New York Times, 03** (http://www.nytimes.com/2003/06/06/world/gi-s-will-gradually-leave-korea-dmz-to-cut-war-risk.html)
The United States and South Korea...near the demilitarized zone.

===2NC Presence Definition Extension=== 

**The U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff errs neg**
**Blechman et al, 97** – President of DFI International, and has held positions in the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget (Barry, Strategic Review, Spring, “Military Presence Abroad in a New Era: The Role of Airpower,” p. 14)
The highly complex nature...deployed overseas (both permanently and temporarily) along with the requisite infrastructure and sustainment capabilities.”2

**So does the rest of the DOD**
**Poon et al, 06** - Department of Geography, University at Buffalo-SUNY, Buffalo (Jessie, “The role of US defense exports in Asia Pacific regionalism,” Political Geography 25 (2006) 715-734, Science Direct)
The major source of defense...policies and developments in the region.

===2NC AT: Substantial Checks=== 

**No consensus---**

**A. 25%**
**US Code, 10** (TITLE 10. ARMED FORCES SUBTITLE A. GENERAL MILITARY LAW PART IV. SERVICE, SUPPLY, AND PROCUREMENT CHAPTER 148. NATIONAL DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL BASE, DEFENSE REINVESTMENT, AND DEFENSE CONVERSION SUBCHAPTER II. POLICIES AND PLANNING, Current as of 5/17/10, lexis)
"(f) Definitions. For...by the contract.".

**B. Considerable in quantity**
**Merriam-Webster, 08** (“substantial”, 2008, http://www.merriam-webster.com/cgi-bin/dictionary?book=Dictionary&va=substantially)
Main Entry: sub•stan•tial 1...being largely but not wholly that which is specified <a substantial lie>

**C. Without material qualification**
**Black’s Law Dictionary, 91** [p. 1024]
Substantially...without material qualification.

**D. In the main**
**Words and Phrases, 64**, P. 818.
“Substantially” means...or essential part.

**AND---The bill their evidence cites wasn’t enacted --- no risk that this is a conclusive definition**
**Bill Tracking Report, 92** (Bill Tracking Report for the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, 1992 Bill Tracking H.R. 4421; 102 Bill Tracking H.R. 4421, lexis)
COMPREHENSIVE BASE...to establish a comprehensive recovery program for communities businesses, and workers adversely affected by the closure or realignment of military installations.

===2NC AT: We Meet---Afghanistan=== 

**They don’t meet**
**DOD, 07** – There’s A Chart (Department of Defense, “ACTIVE DUTY MILITARY PERSONNEL STRENGTHS BY REGIONAL AREA AND BY COUNTRY (309A)”, DECEMBER 31st 2007, http://siadapp.dmdc.osd.mil/personnel/MILITARY/history/hst0712.pdf, KONTOPOULOS)

===2NC AT: We Meet---Iraq=== 

**They don’t meet**
**DOD, 07** – There’s A Chart (Department of Defense, “ACTIVE DUTY MILITARY PERSONNEL STRENGTHS BY REGIONAL AREA AND BY COUNTRY (309A)”, DECEMBER 31st 2007, http://siadapp.dmdc.osd.mil/personnel/MILITARY/history/hst0712.pdf, KONTOPOULOS)

===2NC AT: We Meet---Japan=== 

**They don’t meet**
**DOD, 07** – There’s A Chart (Department of Defense, “ACTIVE DUTY MILITARY PERSONNEL STRENGTHS BY REGIONAL AREA AND BY COUNTRY (309A)”, DECEMBER 31st 2007, http://siadapp.dmdc.osd.mil/personnel/MILITARY/history/hst0712.pdf, KONTOPOULOS)

===2NC AT: We Meet---Kuwait=== 

**They don’t meet**
**DOD, 07** – There’s A Chart (Department of Defense, “ACTIVE DUTY MILITARY PERSONNEL STRENGTHS BY REGIONAL AREA AND BY COUNTRY (309A)”, DECEMBER 31st 2007, http://siadapp.dmdc.osd.mil/personnel/MILITARY/history/hst0712.pdf, KONTOPOULOS)

===2NC AT: We Meet---South Korea=== 

**They don’t meet**
**DOD, 07** – There’s A Chart (Department of Defense, “ACTIVE DUTY MILITARY PERSONNEL STRENGTHS BY REGIONAL AREA AND BY COUNTRY (309A)”, DECEMBER 31st 2007, http://siadapp.dmdc.osd.mil/personnel/MILITARY/history/hst0712.pdf, KONTOPOULOS)

===2NC AT: We Meet---Turkey=== 

**They don’t meet**
**DOD, 07** – There’s A Chart (Department of Defense, “ACTIVE DUTY MILITARY PERSONNEL STRENGTHS BY REGIONAL AREA AND BY COUNTRY (309A)”, DECEMBER 31st 2007, http://siadapp.dmdc.osd.mil/personnel/MILITARY/history/hst0712.pdf, KONTOPOULOS)

===2NC AT: You Overlimit=== 

**People advocate full withdrawal – here is proof –**
**1. South Korea**
**Bandow, 03** – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, Author and Editor of Several Books, Former Special Assistant to President Reagan and visiting Fellow at the Heritage Foundation (Doug, "Bring the Troops Home Ending the Obsolete Korean Commitment", Policy Analysis, May 7th 2003, June 16th 2010, p. 11, KONTOPOULOS) PDF
Former secretary of defense...begin phasing out its military forces immediately.101

**2. Afghanistan**
**Hornberger, 09** – Founder and President of The Future of Freedom Foundation (Jacob G., “Immediately Withdraw from Afghanistan Too”, Hornberger’s Blog, February 9th 2009, http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-02-09.asp, KONTOPOULOS)
Permit me to make...to the United States at once.

**3. Iraq**
**Ackerman,09** – American National Security Reporter (Spencer, “Senior Military Official: U.S. Should Withdraw From Iraq Next Year”, Washington Independent, July 30th 2009, http://washingtonindependent.com/53243/senior-military-official-u-s-should-withdraw-from-iraq-next-year, KONTOPOULOS)
***Cites Timothy R. Reese – Army Col., Chief of the Baghdad Operations Command Advisory Team for Multinational Division-Baghdad
As a result, Reese contends, ...leaving between 30,000 and 55,000 troops in Iraq as advisers until December 2011, as allowed in the SOFA.

**4. Japan**
**Bandow, 04** – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, Author and Editor of Several Books, Former Special Assistant to President Reagan and visiting Fellow at the Heritage Foundation (Doug, “Withdrawal of U.S. forces a good start”, Japan Times, August 22nd 2004, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20040822db.html, KONTOPOULOS)
WASHINGTON -- President...three years, rather than in 10.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]