[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Text: The United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) should withdraw special operations forces (SOF) from Afghanistan.

Advantages:
-Stability: Indo-Pak war (with Fai card), Nuke terrorism,
-HR Cred: Detention scenario and deniability scenario (democracy impact)

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Contention One is Inherency </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">U.S. Special Forces are expanding in Afghanistan – teams have more than doubled under Obama </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**LA Times 10**
(Julian E. Barnes, “U.S. doubles anti-Taliban special forces,” April 15 2010, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2010/apr/15/world/la-fg-secret-surge15-2010apr15]])
Reporting from Washington — … in mid-2011. </span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Contention Two is The Civilian </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The U.S. is losing the war – failure to win the “human terrain” is dooming coalition efforts and strengthening the Taliban. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Reuters 8/30**/10
(Sayed Salahuddin and Paul Tait, West faces a losing battle for Afghan "human terrain", August 30 2010, Reuters, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSSGE67T0I3]])
As the conflict…"the human terrain". </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Scenario 1 is civilian casualties: </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Civilian casualties are increasing – up 31% in the first half of this year </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Al Jazeera 8/10**/10
(Afghan civilian toll up by a third, Al Jazeera [Arabic news source], Aug 10 2010, [[http://english.aljazeera.net/news/asia/2010/08/201081075049886818.html]])
The number of … mid-year report. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Special Ops result in the 80% of civilian casualties – in the ground and the air, they require support that results in mass violence </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Lamb and Cinnamond 10 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Christopher J. [Director, Center for Strategic Research in the Institute for National Strategic Studies (INSS) at National Defense University], Martin [former U.N. official in Afghanistan], “Unified Effort Key to Special Operations and Irregular Warfare in Afghanistan,” //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/5.pdf]])
This historical overview…high civilian casualties. </span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Vital internal link to civilian support – deaths result in civilians turning against international forces </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Lamb and Cinnamond 10 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Christopher J. [Director, Center for Strategic Research in the Institute for National Strategic Studies (INSS) at National Defense University], Martin [former U.N. official in Afghanistan], “Unified Effort Key to Special Operations and Irregular Warfare in Afghanistan,” //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/5.pdf]])
Karzai’s stridency may…we’ve been using.30 </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Scenario two is covert tactics: </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Special forces pursue domestic night raids in Afghan communities, causing civilian resentment </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The Economist 10 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(“Thinking the worst; Night raids on militants in Afghanistan,” The Economist, May 22 2010, lexis)
Even when no …
and do nothing." </span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">This is a veritable nightmare – Special Forces arrest people without warrant and cause civilian casualties which alienate populations and mass popular resentment that //outweighs resentment towards the Taliban// </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Dorronsoro 9 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Giles [visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. His research focuses on security and political development in Afghanistan, particularly the role of the International Security Assistance Force, the necessary steps for a viable government in Kabul, and the conditions necessary for withdrawal scenarios. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes. He also served as the scientific coordinator at the French Institute of Anatolian Studies in Istanbul, Turkey], “The Taliban's Winning Strategy in Afghanistan,” Carnegie Report, Carnegie Endowment for Int’l Peace, June 2009, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/taliban_winning_strategy.pdf]])
Civilian casualties from… over the population. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The U.S. is making more enemies than friends – covert tactics result in collateral damage that undermines any goodwill created by other coalition forces </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Chatterjee 8/20**/10
(Pratap [Chatterjee is a freelance journalist, TomDispatch regular, and senior editor at CorpWatch who has worked extensively in the Middle East and Central Asia, including nine trips to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq. He has written two books about the war on terror: Iraq, Inc. (Seven Stories Press, 2004) and Halliburton's Army (Nation Books, 2009)], “Killing the Wrong People in Afghanistan,” 2010, CBS News, [[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/08/20/opinion/main6790028.shtml]])
Whatever terminology you …
of the night. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> **Winning hearts and minds is critical to win the war – tactical success can’t win it**
**Benjamin 6**
(Daniel [Senior Fellow International Security Program Center for Strategic and International Studies], Testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee: The Changing Face of Terror – A Post 9-11 Assessment, June 13 2006, [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/congress/ts060613benjamin.pdf]])
Unfortunately, that story… and without delay. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Winning the war is critical to avert nuclear terrorism – failure allows Afghanistan and Pakistan to become an international hotbed for terrorists </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Cordesman 10 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Anthony [Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy @ CSIS], “Realism in Afghanistan: Rethinking an Uncertain Case for the War,” Center for Strategic and Int’l Studies, June 16 2010, [[http://csis.org/publication/realism-afghanistan-rethinking-uncertain-case-war]])
The key reasons …
Indo-Pakistani conflict. </span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Indo-Pak conflict is most likely scenario for nuclear war, leading to extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Fai 1 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Ghulam: Executive Director of the Washington-based Kashmiri American Council [“India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir,” Washington Times, July 8, 2001])
The most dangerous …
/Cut-off Convention. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Crisis escalates, causing global collapse of the international security order -- massive retaliation </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Perkovich 2**
(George [vice president for studies and director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace], India and Pakistan on the Brink, THE WALL STREET JOURNAL, MAY 29, 2002, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=1023]])
The American stakes …
conditions for war. </span></span>


<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% white; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Aside from the immediate nuclear impact, war causes global starvation, disease outbreak, and resource wars that threaten planetary survival </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The Hindustan Times 7 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Citing Ira Helfand, Medical Expert on Fallout and Cofounder of
Physicians for Social Responsibility, “Apart from Causing Devastation,
an Indo-Pak Nuclear War Could Cause Starvation Worldwide,” October
5th, [[http://www.medindia.net/news/Apart-from-Causing-Devastation-an-Indo-Pak-Nuclear-War-Could-Cause-Starvation-Worldwide-27423-1.htm]]) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">A nuclear war …
consequences," he added. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**The threat is particularly acute in Pakistan – Afghan and Pakistan instability allows Taliban insurgents to seize nuclear weapons, resulting in nuclear strikes against western allies**  </span>
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Nagl 10 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(John [retired officer in the United States Army who is regarded as an influential expert in counterinsurgency], “A Better War in Afghanistan,” //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/4.pdf]])
The primary objective… is fairly low.11 </span></span>




<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Contention Three is Accountability </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Scenario 1 is Illegitimate Detention </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Improvements in human rights leadership have been made under Obama, but changes remain incomplete – to regain human rights credibility, the U.S. must act on the principles it has articulated </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Roth 10 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Kenneth [attorney, executive director of Human Rights Watch since 1993], Empty Promises?, New York: Mar/Apr 2010. Vol. 89, Iss. 2; pg. 10, 7 pgs, proquest)
From a human… throughout the world. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Special Forces are responsible for detention efforts in Afghanistan – the covert nature of their actions means they avoid public scrutiny, allowing detention policies that infringe upon human rights to continue unchecked </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Gopal 10 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Anand [has reported in Afghanistan for the Christian Science Monitor and the Wall Street Journal. His dispatches can be read at anandgopal.com. He is currently working on a book about the Afghan war], “Obama's Secret Prisons: Night Raids, Hidden Detention Centers, the "Black Jail," and the Dogs of War in Afghanistan,” January 28, 2010, Huffington Post, printed in the The Nation Magazine, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/anand-gopal/obamas-secret-prisons-nig_b_440401.html]])
The American troops…
small field prisons. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Detention without trial in Afghanistan uniquely perpetuates the spirit of Guantanamo – despite Obama’s shift in policy, abuses remain rife there </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Roth 10 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Kenneth [attorney, executive director of Human Rights Watch since 1993], Empty Promises?, New York: Mar/Apr 2010. Vol. 89, Iss. 2; pg. 10, 7 pgs, proquest)
Obama has also …
has been shut. </span></span>




<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Abuses in detention diminish human rights credibility to nothing – the way the U.S. wages the War on Terror undermines international credibility, destroying the internal human rights framework </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Sadat 6 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Leila Nadya [Henry H. Oberschelp Professor of Law, Washington University in St. Louis], SYMPOSIUM: "TORTURE AND THE WAR ON TERROR": GHOST PRISONERS AND BLACK SITES: EXTRAORDINARY RENDITION UNDER INTERNATIONAL LAW, 37 Case W. Res. J. Int'l L. 309, 2006, lexis)
Finally, the volatile… </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt;"> terrorist at all. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Human rights loss causes ethnic conflicts, authoritarian regimes which kills their own citizens, environmental destruction, and catastrophic refugee flows </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Shattuck 94**
(JOHN SHATTUCK, ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS, 4/19/94 (Federal News Service, l/n) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;">I would like … __<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">our foreign policy-making.</span> </span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The human rights framework must be upheld – violation guarantees continued insecurity </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Copelon 99**
(Rhonda Copelon, law at City University of New York, 1999 (3 N.Y. City L. Rev. 59)) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;">The indivisible human… and foreign policy. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Reorientation towards human rights //increases// national security – rejecting the idea that national security and human rights are at odds is critical to decrease international aggression </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Burke-White 4 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(William [Lecturer in Public and International Affairs and Senior Special Assistant to the Dean, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Princeton University; Ph.D., Cambridge (expected 2004); J.D., Harvard (2002); M.Phil., Cambridge (1999); A.B., Harvard (1998)], U.S. FOREIGN POLICY AND HUMAN RIGHTS: ARTICLE: Human Rights and National Security: The Strategic Correlation, 17 Harv. Hum. Rts. J. 249, Spring 2004, lexis)
Soon after the …
States more secure. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">No risk of a turn – detention policies only serve to //weaken// efforts to stop terrorism by alienating moderate Muslims. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Sadat 6 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Leila Nadya [Henry H. Oberschelp Professor of Law, Washington University in St. Louis], SYMPOSIUM: "TORTURE AND THE WAR ON TERROR": GHOST PRISONERS AND BLACK SITES: EXTRAORDINARY RENDITION UNDER INTERNATIONAL LAW, 37 Case W. Res. J. Int'l L. 309, 2006, lexis)
Second, U.S. detention … "War on Terror." n167 </span></span>



<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Scenario 2: deniability </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">SOF are employed in covert operations </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Best and Feickert 9 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Richard A. Best Jr. [Specialist in National Defense], Andrew Feickert [Specialist in Military Ground Forces], Special Operations Forces (SOF) and CIA Paramilitary Operations: Issues for Congress, August 3 2009, Congressional Research Service, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RS22017.pdf]])
SOF have reportedly … exist within USSOCOM.5 </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Covert operations are fundamentally undemocratic – result in a policy of deniability that erodes Washington’s credibility in the international sphere </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Kibbe 4 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Jennifer [Olin Fellow in Foreign Policy Studies at the Brookings Institution], The Rise of the Shadow Warriors, March/April 2004, Foreign Affairs, proquest)
Covert operations are …
of national borders. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Access to information is critical to democracy – its denial results in an unknowledgeable citizenry and citizens rights to assess the decisions of their leaders, providing a veil of secrecy behind which corruption flourishes </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Neuman 2 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Laura [associate director for the Americas Program at The Carter Center and the access to information project manager for The Carter Center], “Introduction” in //ACCESS TO INFORMATION: A KEY TO DEMOCRACY//, The Carter Center [in partnership with Emory University, is committed to advancing human rights], 2002, [[http://www.cartercenter.org/documents/1272.pdf]])
Knowledge is power, …
as their representatives. </span></span>








<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Corruption results in widespread social instability that undermines citizen confidence in democratic institutions </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Neuman 2 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> (Laura [associate director for the Americas Program at The Carter Center and the access to information project manager for The Carter Center], “Introduction” in //ACCESS TO INFORMATION: A KEY TO DEMOCRACY//, The Carter Center [in partnership with Emory University, is …
in democratic institu- tions. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">And U.S. democracy is key to global democracy – only by //living up to its own ideals// will democracy flourish abroad. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Nye 9 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Joseph S. [former US Assistant Secretary of Defense, is a professor at Harvard University and author of Soft Power: The Means to Success in World Politics], Democracy Promotion Reconsidered, 5/11/09, [[http://www.project/|http://www.project]] syndicate.org/commentary/nye70/English)
**Equally important** to … on the hill.” </span></span>
== == 
==[[#Affirmative-Democracy key to global nuclear peace.]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Democracy key to global nuclear peace. </span>== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Muravchik 1**
(Josh, Resident Scholar – AEI, “Democracy and Nuclear Peace”, July, [[http://www.npec-web.org/Syllabus/Muravchik.pdf]])
The greatest impetus … threatening or outrageous. </span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Thus the plan: The United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) should withdraw Special Operations Forces (SOF) from Afghanistan. </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Cotention 4 is Solvency </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Now is key – operations are at their fastest tempo and still increasing – four times the pace of SOF missions during Iraq </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Bloomberg 9/3**/10
(Petraeus Says Afghan Raids on Rebels Exceed Iraq Pace, 2010, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-03/petraeus-says-afghan-special-missions-are-running-at-four-times-iraq-pace.html]])
U.S. Army General …
weeks, he said. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">SOCOM can do the plan – has executive control to plan and direct Special Operations Forces </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Olson 10 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Eric T. [eighth and current Commander, U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM)], U.S. Special Operations:
Context and Capabilities in Irregular Warfare, //Joint Forces Quarterly//, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/8.pdf]])
The United … of U.S. defense policy. </span></span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]