[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Lauryn Hill- I Get Out (0:05-0:47)

I get out. I get out of this Euro-centric thought that policies bodies of oppressed populations and relegates them to the margins. I get out of the oppressive chains that wrap and squeeze the humanity out of the person. father free us from the bondages through the signiture of your ballot because the only way things will change is if the ballot demands it, breaking the existing paradigm that suppresses true creativity. the resolution is no effective solution to solve for majority of oppressed people. stifling individual potential through the prioritization of academia and militarizing debate through the flow separating the debater from any personal conviction maintaining the policing apparatus through the form of exclusion. no longer will we support the lie of freedom hidden by the mask of token minorities, even if we have to die in the form of ballots we must not stay silent in the face of injustice. this is how we choose to live.


Observation one: THE TRUTH ABOUT ME

Leah, leah is my name,
Black, black is my race
Race? race is something that the white man says needs to be forgotten
but why are we hidding from this form of oppression and silent depression.
the streets of baltimore city which i refuse to let mold, break down, or make me.

violene, vacant homes, drugs, and negative influences are what surround me.
but how do i make it out? is what i constantly ask myself.
yelling for help but the only answer i get is this is a white mans world.
by through finding myself i realized that it is by taking advantage of my education and having determantion to stand in solidarity with the oppressed.

but way deep down this invisible segregation kills me.
11th grade... 16 to express my point of view is why i debate.
but the way in which it seems i have to do so puts my identity at stake.

leah, leah is my name.
i am not white, i am not male, i am the mule of this world.
oppression is built on the back of my neck.
no longer will i ignore this discussion just because the whit emale says it is to be forgotten.




observation two: The Eurocentric Reliance

the sole focus and prioritization of academic authors should be rejected.

the eurocentric masculinist knowledge validation process represents the institutions, paradigms and elements of procedure contolled by elite white men. scholars, publishers and other experts represent specific interst and credentializing processes that satisfy the political and epistomological critera of the context in which they reside.
when white men control the knowledge validation process the politcial criteria can work to suppress black feminist thought.
collins assc. prof of african-american studies @ univ of cincinnati 1991
patricia hill-formerly the director of the african american center @ tufts university and was involved for many years in the community schools movement in boston; black feminist thought: knowledge, consciousness, and the politics of empowerment, p. 203

institutions, paradigms, and other elements... reflect a basic lack of familiarity with black women's reality.



observation three: the fem break down

the debate community should embrace an afro-centric feminist epistomology which consist of three tenants:
1. organic intellectuals
2. academic intellects
3. personal experience



**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">Traditional knowledge production within the debate community privileges those with institutional and economic power while excluding other forms of knowledge production. Our usage of the three tier process within debate makes alternative forms of knowledge production legitimate and checks the homogenizing function of 'expert' discourse.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">reid-brinkley 2008 [Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">The process of __signifyin__’ engaged in by the Louisville debaters __is not simply designed to critique the use of traditional evidence; their goal is to “challenge the relationship between social power and knowledge.”__ In other words<span style="background: yellow;">, __those with social power within the debate community are able to produce and determine “legitimate” knowledge. These legitimating practices__ usually __function to maintain the dominance of normative knowledge-making practices, while crowding out or directly excluding alternative knowledge-making practices.__</span> The Louisville “framework looks to the people who are oppressed by current constructions of power.” Jones and Green offer __an alternative framework for drawing claims__ in debate speeches, they refer to it as a three-tier process: __<span style="background: yellow;">A way in which you can validate our claims, is through the three-tier process</span>__<span style="background: yellow;">.</span> And __<span style="background: yellow;">we talk about personal experience, organic intellectuals, and academic intellectuals</span>__. Let me give you an analogy. If you place an elephant in the room and send in three blind folded people into the room, and each of them are touching a different part of the elephant. And they come back outside and you ask each different person they gone have a different idea about what they was talking about. But, if you let those people converse and bring those three different people together then __you can achieve a greater truth.”__ Jones argues that __<span style="background: yellow;">without the three tier process **<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">debate claims are based on singular perspectives</span>** that **<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">privilege</span>** those with institutional and economic power</span><span style="background: lime;">.</span>__ The Louisville debaters **__<span style="background: yellow; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">do not reject</span>__**<span style="background: yellow;"> __traditional evidence per se, instead__ they __seek to **<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">augment or supplement</span>**__ __what counts as evidence with other forms of knowledge produced outside of academia__</span>__.__ As Green notes in the double-octo-finals at CEDA Nationals, “**__<span style="background: yellow; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Knowledge surrounds me in the streets</span>__**__<span style="background: yellow;">,</span>__<span style="background: yellow;"> __through my peers, through personal experiences, and everyday wars that I fight with my mind.__” The thee-tier process: personal experience, organic intellectuals, and traditional evidence, provides a method of argumentation that taps into diverse forms of knowledge-making practices</span>. With the Louisville method, __<span style="background: yellow;">personal experience and organic intellectuals are placed on par with traditional forms of evidence</span><span style="background: lime;">.</span>__ While the Louisville debaters see the benefit of academic research, they are also critically aware of **__<span style="background: yellow;">the normative practices that exclude racial and ethnic minorities from policy-oriented discussions because of their lack of training and expertise. Such exclusions prevent radical solutions to racism, classism, sexism, and homophobia from being more permanently addressed</span>__**. According to Green: bell hooks talks about how __<span style="background: yellow;">when we rely solely on one perspective to make our claims, radical liberatory theory becomes rootless.</span>__ That’s the reason why we use a three-tiered process. __That’s why <span style="background: yellow;">we use **<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">alternative forms of discourse </span>**</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-weight: normal;">such as hip hop</span>****.** That’s also how we use traditional evidence and our personal narratives so __<span style="background: yellow;">y**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">ou don’t get just one perspective</span>**</span>__<span style="background: yellow;"> __claiming to be the right way__</span>__.__ __Because it becomes a more meaningful and educational view as far as how we achieve our education.__The use of __hip hop and **<span style="background: yellow;">personal experience function as a check against the </span>****<span style="background: yellow; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-weight: normal;">homogenizing</span>****<span style="background: yellow;">function of academic and expert discourse.</span>**__ Note the reference to bell hooks, Green argues that without alternative perspectives, “radical libratory theory becomes rootless.” The term **__<span style="background: yellow; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">rootless</span>__** seems to __<span style="background: yellow;">refer to a **<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">lack of grounded-ness in the material circumstances</span>**</span>__ __that academics or experts study.__ In other words, __<span style="background: yellow;">academics and experts by definition represent an intellectual population with a level of **<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">objective distance</span>**</span>__ __from that which they study.__ For the Louisville debaters, __<span style="background: yellow;">this distance is problematic as it prevents the development of a social politic that is rooted in the community of those most greatly affected by the status of oppression.</span>__</span>


the personal is an essential component of our advocacy.
a speaker can not be given credibility without envoking accountability for their knowledge claims. we reject the eurocentric, masculinist belief that probing into an individuals view point is outside the bounderies of discussion.
collins assc. prof of african-american studies @ univ of cincinnati 1991
patricia hill-formerly the director of the african american center @ tufts university and was involved for many years in the community schools movement in boston; black feminist thought: knowledge, consciousness, and the politics of empowerment, p. 217-218

an ethic of personal accountablity... those offered by less respected figures.




observation four: whats good in debate

our framework for this debate is who best engages in a consistant methodology for liberation of the oppressed throught he three tier process
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]