[[toc]]
Alyssa has debated with Havisha Garimella at Harvard, and Ameer Mohammed at NJ Invitational, and will be with Gabriel Koo for Woodward, entered under McDonogh

Also, we are affiliated with Capitol Debate, so, since I'm probably forgetting something, you can check the wikis for Centennial, River Hill, Richard Montgomery, McDonogh, Marriotts Ridge, Mt Hebron, and a bunch of other schools in Howard County, MD, since we run similar things.

=Affirmative= 

btw, see the other my other wiki (w/ daniel budai) to see the other aff we have, but may or may not run

<span style="text-align: justify;">1AC</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 16pt; text-align: justify;">ALYSSA AND I AFFIRM THE RESOLUTION THROUGH DISAFFIRMATION OF THE STATE ADVOCATING THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SUBSTANIALLY REDUCE ITS MILITARY PRESENCE IN THE GEOGRAPHICAL SPACE KNOWN AS SOUTH KOREA.</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">OBSERVATION ONE: RACISM AGAINST ASIAN PEOPLE </span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana;">U.S. MILITARY OCCUPATION OF BODIES AND LAND HAS CONSEQUENCES</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">MAISEL </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Marketing Asst for Stanford University Press</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;"> 2k8</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Kira-; PRESS RELEASE on a book by Nadia Kim Entitled //IMPERIAL CITIZENS: Koreans and Race from Seoul to LA;// June 2008; </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sup.org/html/book_pages/0804758875/Press%20Release.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">The </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 16pt;">presence</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;"> of … for everyone involved.</span>


<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">OBSERVATION TWO IS RACISM AGAINST ASIAN NATIONS</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Americans in East Asia have long been the textbook definition of imperialist and we continue to underestimate the high growth economies in East Asia. There is a significant gap between preaching and self deception in US democracy promotion and is even greater representing a record of continuous failure.</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana;">JOHNSON </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Prof emeritus @ Univ. of Cali at San Diego</span><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> 2k6</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Chalmers-; //Exporting the American Model: Markets and Democracy//; TRUTH-OUT.org; May 2; piece originated as “remarks” presented at the East Asia panel of a workshop on “Transplanting Institutions” sponsored by the Dept of Sociology of the University of California, San Diego held on April 21, 2006;</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.truth-out.org/article/chalmers-johnson-exporting-american-model]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">There is something absurd … </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> system at that.</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11pt;">US MILITARY PRESENCE IS A PRODUCT OF INSTITUTIONAL RACISM</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana;">JALAN </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">A Journal of Asian Liberation </span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">2k8</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">By the Editors-; //On the Origins of Anti-Asian Racism and How We Have Fought Back//; JALAN, Sept. 21;</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://jalanjournal.org/2008/09/asians-against-white-supremacy/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Introduction</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">In the United States …</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> need to smash. </span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana;">A NEW GLOBAL RACISM BASED ON CULTURAL EXCLUSION MAKE WAR AND GENOCIDE INEVITABLE</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana;">BATUR </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Prof of Sociology @ Vassar </span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">2k7</span>
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Pinar Batur, PhD @ UT-Austin – Prof. of Scociology @ Vassar, ‘7 [“The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide,” in</span></span> //<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Handbook of the The Soiology of Racial and Ethnic Relations</span>//<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">, eds. Vera and Feagin, p. 441-443])</span></span>
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">War and genocide …</span> Iraq and New Orleans.</span>



<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">WE WILL ISOLATE THE FOLLOWING EXAMPLE: CHINA</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9.5pt;">THE POSSIBILITY OF U.S.-SINO CONFLICT IS RISING DUE TO U.S. PRESENCE</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana;">YUAN </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">assc professor @ Center for Intl Security Studies, University of Sydney </span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">2k10</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Jingdong-; //Deep Reasons For China and U.S. to Bristle//; ASIA TIMES ONLINE; August 20;</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/LH20Ad01.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">SYDNEY, Australia - China's </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">strong reaction …</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;"> decades to come.</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">THE BIGGEST IMPLICATION IS THE EFFACING OF CHINESE SCHOLARS IN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">CHINESE SCHOLARS HAVE BEEN VOCALLY CRITICAL OF U.S. PRIMACY</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">IRVINE </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">visiting Senior Scholar @ the Institute of Intl Strategic and Dvlpmt Stds @ Tsinghua Univ, Bejing </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">2k10</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Roger-PhD candidate in the Centre for Asian Studies at the University of Adelaide, South Austrailia; CHINA SECURITY, vol. 6 No. 3; //Primacy and Responsibility: China’s Perception of Its International Future//;</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.chinasecurity.us/images/stories/RogerIrvine.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Advocacy of a …</span> by some people.”<span class="A8"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">25</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS IGNORES CHINESE PERCEPTIONS</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">IRVINE </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">visiting Senior Scholar @ the Institute of Intl Strategic and Dvlpmt Stds @ Tsinghua Univ, Bejing </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">2k10</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Roger-PhD candidate in the Centre for Asian Studies at the University of Adelaide, South Austrailia; CHINA SECURITY, vol. 6 No. 3; //Primacy and Responsibility: China’s Perception of Its International Future//;</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.chinasecurity.us/images/stories/RogerIrvine.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">China’s Scholars Enter the Debate</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">Outside China, there … to foreign policy. </span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">THE ONLY REASON FOR THIS IS THE RACISM IMBEDDED WITHIN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS THEORY</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">AS A DISCIPLINE AND DISCOURSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS SILENCES AND CONTAINS RACIAL HISTORICAL NARRATIVES.</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">KRISHNA </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Dept of Political Science @ University of Hawii @ Manoa </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">2k1</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Sankaran-; //Race, Amnesia, and the Education of International Relations//; ALTERNATIVES 26; p. 401-24</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb3225/is_4_26/ai_n28886581/]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This article argues …</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 7pt;"> which is to come.</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 12pt;">OBSERVATION THREE: RACIAL SALVATION</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana;">THE ONLY ACCEPTABLE POLICY OPTION IS A REJECTION OF RACISM</span>
MEMMI Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris 2000
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">The struggle against …</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;"> stakes are irresistible.</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana;">OUR SPEECH ACT HAS MEANING AND VALUE IN THE DEBATE</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana;">JALAN </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">A Journal of Asian Liberation </span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">2k8</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">By the Editors-; //On the Origins of Anti-Asian Racism and How We Have Fought Back//; JALAN, Sept. 21;</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://jalanjournal.org/2008/09/asians-against-white-supremacy/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">All of the myths …</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;"> speak for our peoples.</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11.5pt;">REDUCING U.S. MILITARY PRESENCE IS A CONCESSION TO CHINA</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11.5pt;">Reducing US military presence in Korea means accepting a SIGNIFICANT expansion of Chinese influence on the Korean Peninsula and would serve as a concession to China to check N. Korean aggression.</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana;">CARPENTER </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">VP for Defense and Foreign Policy Studies @ the CATO Institute </span><span style="font-family: Verdana;">2k10</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Ted-; //Plan B For Dealing With North Korea//; POLICY, Vol. 26, No. 2, Winter;</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/Policy-TedGalenCarpenter.pdf]]</span>
<span class="underline"> <span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">If the price … on the Korean Peninsula.</span></span>
if you have any questions, email me at simonwzhu[at]gmail[dot]com

=Negative= 

Neg Args we have run in the past:

__**Topicality:**__
T reduce
T substantial
T military presence
Inhericality
ASPEC
And a bunch of other random T vios...

__**DAs:**__
Debt Ceiling
SKFTA
Heg
RES

**__CPs:__**
Khorassan PIC
XO CP
Aram Narain PIC
NK NPT QPQ
Presidential Commission CP

__**Ks:**__
Withdrawal
Empire
Hillman
Primitivism
COIN

__**PAST STRATS:**__
Politix, XO, T, (K)
T, Prim K
Inhericality, Word PIC, Withdrawal K
T, Word PIC, COIN K
(We usually also run some Case D/Turns if we have time)

__**PAST 2NRs**__
__New Jersey Invitational__
Rd 2
XO (Politics Net benefit)

Rd 3
T, Word PIC

__Harvard__
Rd 2
XO, Case stuff

Rd 3
T, Word PIC

Rd 5
T, XO (Politics Net benefit)

__Lakeland__
Rd 1
Framework, Prim K

Rd 3 - DID NOT DEBATE THIS ROUND

Rd 6
Word PIC

if you have any questions, email me at simonwzhu[at]gmail[dot]com


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]