[[toc]]
=September-October= 
Greenhill: 

Palo Alto AC Case Sites

Round 1: Super Craziness (Stock) AC

<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">Framework: Protect individuals. </span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">States have moral obligations to protect individuals </span>
[1]
<span style="display: block; mso-fareast-font-family: SimSun;">Beversluis, Eric H. “On Shunning Undesirable Regimes: Ethics and Economic Sanctions” //Public Affairs Quarterly//, Vol. 3, number 2, April, 1989. </span>

Terrorists want, but don't currently have, nukes
[1]
CPWMDPT. "World At Risk." Report for the President and Congress. December 2008.

Nukes are unsecure
[1]
2008. Director of Development and Public Affairs for the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation. Huffington Post.


The only way to prevent nuclear terrorism is disarmament
[1]
Ibid. (CPWMDPT)

Terrorists can't be deterred by nukes (or anything, really)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">Gabel, Josiane. 2004/05. “The Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons After September 11.” //Washington Quarterly//. Winter. </span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">Nuclear terrorists will kill 1000000 people with one bomb </span>
[1]
Graham Allison.  
<span style="display: block; mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Nuclear Terrorism: The Ultimate Preventable Catastrophe</span>
. 2004. [Director of the Belfer Center for International Affairs at Harvard]

Unless we stop current prolif, nuke war will totally happen.
[1]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld] </span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">Nukes are otherizing, leads to mass death. </span>
[1]
<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Darell J. Fasching, “The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima: Apocalypse or Utopia?” State University of New York (1993)</span>


<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Nukes are otherizing and getting nukes creates national rage, etc. Leads to OMNICIDE</span>

[1]
<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Darell J. Fasching, “The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima: Apocalypse or Utopia?” State University of New York (1993)</span>


<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">Nukes don't really deter anything conventional </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">Terror without Deterrence: Reassessing the Role of Nuclear WeaponsAuthor(s): Jacek KuglerSource: The Journal of Conflict Resolution, Vol. 28, No. 3 (Sep., 1984), pp. 470-506Published by: <span style="color: blue;">Sage Publications, Inc.</span>Stable URL: <span style="color: blue;">http://www.jstor.org/stable/174059</span>Accessed </span>

[1] "ought." Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary. 2010. Merriam-Webster Online. 29 July 2010 <http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ought

[1] J.J.C. Smart. "Free-Will, Praise and Blame," Mind, July 1961, reprinted in Gerald Dworkin, Determinism, Free Will and Moral Responsibilty, Prentice-Hall (1970). p.19

[1] Immanuel Kant. Critique of Pure Reason.

[1] Friedrich Nietzsche, The Gay Science, Section 335.

[1] David Pearce. “Quantum Ethics? Suffering in the Multiverse”. (2008) 

=November-December= 

Round 2: Logic NC

<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">Framework: Logical consequence. </span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">ought = logical consequence </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 10pt;">"ought." __Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary__. 2010. Merriam-Webster Online. 29 July 2010 <http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ought </span>


<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">No such thing as free will </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">J.J.C. Smart. <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">"Free-Will, Praise and Blame,"</span> //<span style="color: black;">Mind</span>//<span style="color: black;">, July 1961, reprinted in Gerald Dworkin, Determinism, Free Will and Moral Responsibilty, Prentice-Hall (1970). p.19</span></span></span>

Cause/effect is the purest a priori knowledge. Empirical bases for moral codes suck, so look to only pure a priori
[1]
Immanuel Kant.  
<span style="display: block; mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Critique of Pure Reason</span>
.

<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;">Moral systems/ value systems suck. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt;"><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">Friedrich Nietzsche,</span> //<span style="color: black;">The Gay Science</span>//<span style="color: black;">, Section 335</span></span></span>


<span style="color: black;">Round 3: Nuke Sharing NC</span>

<span style="color: black;">States have moral obligations to people (in general)</span>
<span style="color: black;">Beversluis, Eric H. "On Shunning Undesirable Regimes: Ethics and Economic Sanctions." //Public Affairs Quarterly//, Vol.3, number 2, April, 1989.</span>

<span style="color: black;">NATO is on the brink of dissolution/lameness</span>
<span style="color: black;">Seaman, James. "Standing at the Crossroads: Nato in the Twenty First Century." //Hinckley Journal of Politics.// Spring, 2001</span>

<span style="color: black;">Ending nuclear sharing sucks. It reduces NATO confidence and destabilizes Europe.</span>
<span style="color: black;">Michael Ruhle. "NATO and Extended Deterrence in a Multinuclear World." //Comparative Strategy,// Vol. 28, Issue 1 Jan.2009</span>

<span style="color: black;">Sharing Prevents Euro Prolif.</span>
<span style="color: black;">Ruhle 2. (Ibid).</span>

<span style="color: black;">Multilateralism solves terrorism.</span>
<span style="color: black;">Joseph Nye. //Foreign Affairs//. August 2003.</span>

==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]