[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC== 
===COIN 1AC - Greenhill RR=== 
Contention 1: Inherency

The US won’t withdraw from Afghanistan – the upcoming deadlines will only increase troops
Klein 6/24(Joe Klein, staff writer for Time, “Can Obama and Petraeus Work Together?”, [[http://www.time.com/time/printout/0,8816,1999251,00.html]])

But the policy featured…until July 2011.

Counterinsurgency will inevitably fail – a counterterrorism strategy is more effective
Nelson 9(Rick "Ozzie", Director, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Program and Senior Fellow, International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Oct 1, “The Other Side of the COIN”, http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin)

Probably not...approach would entail

Now is the key time – the small footprint approach is uniquely sustainable and delay risks precipitous withdrawal
Simon and Stevenson 9(Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo) 

It follows that...for that purpose.

Contention 2: Afghan Stability
COIN is rooted in a Western nation-building ideology – the US props up the ineffective central government at the cost of stability
Preble 10(Christopher A. Preble, Director of Foreign Policy studies at the Cato Institute, May 21, 2010, “Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834)

The appropriate question...in the world

More specifically, COIN is inherently hostile to local authority structures
Friedman 9(Benjamin H. Friedman, research fellow in defense and homeland security studies, September 3, “Making Enemies in Afghanistan”, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/03/making-enemies-in-afghanistan/ | Suo)

Yaroslav Trofimov’s article...possibility worth considering.

And, US presence creates deepening spirals of instability and violence – a minimalist approach is key
Simon and Stevenson 9(Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo) 

Finally...to the Taliban.

Withdrawal would create a locally-driven balance of power
Suhrke 10(Astri, Senior Research Fellow, Chr. Michelsen Institute, Ph. D. in International Relations from the University of Denver, 17 March, “The Case for a Light Footprint: The international project in Afghanistan”, [[http://www.cmi.no/file/?997]])

The insurgency has...developments were going.

This provincial security regime is comparatively the best way to stabilize Afghanistan
Fisher 9(Max, associate editor for the Atlantic on foreign affairs and national security, Nov 18 2009, “Can Warlords Save Afghanistan?”, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2009/11/can-warlords-save-afghanistan/30397/) 

President Obama has...foreseeable exit strategy.

Inevitable destabilization that results leads to violent fragmentation of Afghanistan, resulting in multiple nuclear wars
Morgan 7(Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639)

Although disliked and...Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!

Afghan instability spills over to Central Asia – causes conflict that draws in Russia
Goble 10 (Paul, Georgian Daily, “Afghan Conflict Spreading into Central Asia, Russian Analyst Says”, 1-14, [[http://georgiandaily.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=16458&Itemid=65]])

Because NATO has....as well.

War in Central Asia is the most probable scenario for extinction
Blank 2K(Stephen J. Blank, Expert on the Soviet Bloc for the Strategic Studies Institute, 2000, “American Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region”, World Affairs. 9-22))

Thus...settling the situation

No risk of Taliban takeover – withdrawal would kill their cohesion and local support
Pillar 9(Paul R. Pillar, 28-year veteran of the Central Intelligence Agency, a visiting professor at Georgetown University for security studies and a member of the Center for Peace and Security Studies, 10/14/09, “Counterterrorism and Stability in Afghanistan”, http://cpass.georgetown.edu/documents/AfghanHASCPillarOct09_1.doc | Suo)

This observation sheds...occupation.

Independently, COIN destabilizes Pakistan – small footprint key to prevent collapse
Washington 9(George Washington, former adjunct professor and head writer of the Washington blog, Cites Andrew J. Bacevich, professor of international relations at Boston University, December 4, 2009, “A Cheaper and More Effective Military Strategy for Afghanistan”, http://www.washingtonsblog.com/2009/12/better-military-strategy-for.html | Suo) 

Meanwhile,the chief...the entire world.

Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia
Pitt 9 - a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)

But a suicide...should we all.

Contention 3: al-Qaeda

al Qaeda is actively seeking nuclear weapons for use
Evans 10(Michael, Pentagon Correspondent, Washington, April 12, “Hillary Clinton fears al-Qaeda is obtaining nuclear weapons material”, http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/us_and_americas/article7094876.ece)

Terrorists including...bombs are available.

That is the single greatest threat to security – material has already been stolen and an attack is coming in 2013
Hall 10(Mimi Hall, staff writer for USA Today, 4/12/2010, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm)

Obama said the … attack" by 2013

Extinction
Morgan 9(Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race, ScienceDirect)

In a remarkable...of strategic weapons.

Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack
Arkedis 9(Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven)

As deliberations about...it can access.

al-Qaeda represents a uniquely existential threat – religious ideology short-circuits deterrence
Gorka 10(Sebastian L. v. Gorka, Faculty of the Irregular Warfare Department of the National Defense University, Washington DC, and member of the US Atlantic Council’s Strategic Advisers’ Group, 5/17/10, “Al-Qaeda and Afghanistan in Strategic Context: Counterinsurgency versus Counterterrorism (WP)”, http://www.realinstitutoelcano.org/wps/portal/rielcano_eng/Content?WCM_GLOBAL_CONTEXT=/elcano/elcano_in/zonas_in/dt15-2010 | Suo)

Almost immediately...will not be achievable.

US presence strengthens al Qaeda – it increases recruiting
Clemons et al, 10(Bruce Ackerman, Yale University, Gordon Adams, American University and Stimson Center, Amjad Atallah, New America Foundation, James Bamford, Author/Documentary Producer, Darcy Burner, Progressive Caucus Action Fund, James Clad, National Defense University, Steve Clemons, New America Foundation and The Washington Note, Juan Cole, University of Michigan and Informed Comment, Patrick Cronin, Center for a New American Security, Arnaud de Borchgrave, Center for Strategic & International Studies, Graciana del Castillo, Columbia University, Michael C. Desch, University of Notre Dame, Robert H. Donaldson, University of Tulsa, Bernard I. Finel, National War College, James K. Galbraith, University of Texas-Austin, James Goldgeier, George Washington University, William C. Goodfellow, Center for International Policy, Selig S. Harrison, Center for International Policy, Leo Hindery, Jr., Chair, US Economy/Smart Globalization Initiative at the New America Foundation, Matthew P. Hoh, Former U.S. Marine Officer and former Department of State official, Michael Intriligator, University of California, Los Angeles and The Milken Institute, Robert Jervis, Columbia University, Sean Kay, Ohio Wesleyan University, Parag Khanna, New America Foundation and former Senior Geopolitical Officer, US Special Operations Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, W. Patrick Lang, Former Defense Intelligence Officer, South Asia and Publisher, Sic Semper Tyrannis, Flynt Leverett, New America Foundation and Race for Iran, Hillary Mann Leverett, Yale University and Race for Iran, Anatol Lieven, King’s College London and New America Foundation, Justin Logan, Cato Institute, John Mueller, Ohio State University, Robert A. Pape, University of Chicago, Paul R. Pillar, Georgetown University, Barry Posen, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Jason Rosenbaum, Writer, Priya Satia, Stanford University, Stephen Schlesinger, Century Foundation, Sherle R. Schwenninger, New America Foundation, Michael Shank, Office of US Congressman Michael Honda and Afghanistan Taskforce Chair, Congressional Progressive Caucus, J.P. Singh, Georgetown University, Richard Vague, The Governor’s Woods Foundation, American Strategy Program Leadership Council, and New America Foundation, Martin Walker, Woodrow Wilson Center, Stephen M. Walt, Harvard University, Col Lawrence B. Wilkerson (USA, ret), College of William & Mary, Former Chief of Staff, US Department of State, Jeffrey Winters, Northwestern University, Leighton Woodhouse, Labor Organizer, Mosharraf Zaidi, International Development Expert and Columnist, 8/19/10, “A NEW WAY FORWARD: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan”, http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/?page_id=27)

In short, a...by similar motivations. 

A large footprint makes Pakistani cooperation impossible – that’s necessary to solve terror
Simon and Stevenson 9(Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo)

The Obama administration's...be against foreigners.

The plan is sufficient to keep the Taliban down and prevent al Qaeda safe havens in Afghanistan
Cortright 9(David Cortright, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, OCTOBER 19, 2009, “No Easy Way Out”, http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=11917)

This analysis suggests...with greater justice.

Withdrawal is a prerequisite to effective counterterrorism – presence creates a legitimacy gap and reduces leverage
Boyle 10(Michael J, Professor at the University of St. Andrews - Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?”, International Affairs 86: 2 (2010) 333–353 | Suo)

Another set of … essential counterterrorism goals.
Contention 3: Hegemony

We’ll isolate two internal links,
First, War Fatigue – COIN perpetuates domestic backlash which undermines power projection and causes isolationism
Kretkowski 10 (Paul D. Kretkowski, Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. Further experience overseas as rapporteur for university-sponsored "track two" diplomacy programs that provide enemies a forum for later cooperation and back-channel communication. Highly irregular reporting via blog on developments in soft power, public diplomacy and smart power, January 07, 2010, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html | Suo) 

Over the winter …(China, a reinvigorated Russia).

Second, Overstretch, COIN devastates troop morale and readiness – collapsing hegemony
Pyne 9 -Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/)

In Iraq and...this past year.

Heg solves every impact – the only threat to world peace is if we allow it to collapse
Thayer 6 - professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)

A grand strategy...prosperity it provides.

And, heg is sustainable – but continuing a failed strategy in Afghanistan undermines our leadership
Innocent and Carpenter 9(Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf | Suo)
Former national security...than would withdrawal.

CT is better than COIN at intelligence gathering
Nelson 9(Rick “Ozzie” Nelson is a senior fellow in the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C. He is a former Navy helicopter pilot with over twenty years operational and intelligence experience, including assignments at the National Security Council and the National Counterterrorism Center. He recently served in Afghanistan. Oct 15, 2009, “Intelligence Gathering Is Compatible with Counterterrorism”, http://csis.org/publication/intelligence-gathering-compatible-counterterrorism | Suo)

Proponents of counterinsurgency...Qaeda in Iraq.

Certainty of withdrawal is key – it shores up international credibility and boosts political support
Schlesinger 10(Stephen, Adjunct Fellow at the Century Foundation in New York City, the former Director of the World Policy Institute at the New School University, March 10, 2010, “The Only Way Out Of Afghanistan Is With A Withdrawal Deadline”, [[http://takingnote.tcf.org/2010/03/the-only-way-out-of-afghanistan-is-a-withdrawal-deadline.html]])

The deadline is...be the last.

The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan

===COIN Fails=== 
We control uniqueness – violence and Taliban forces increasing by every metric – prefer recency
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nordland 9/11</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rod, Chief Foreign Correspondent for “Newsweek” magazine. He was named Baghdad Bureau Chief of “Newsweek” magazine in 2003 after the start of the Iraq War. In 2004, Nordland’s reporting was part of the war coverage that garnered “Newsweek” its tenth National Magazine Award for General Excellence, NYT, 2010, “Security in Afghanistan Is Deteriorating, Aid Groups Say”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/12/world/asia/12afghan.html]], AV) </span>

KABUL, Afghanistan — <span class="UnderlineChar">Even as more…</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> time since 2001</span>. </span>
COIN will fail – under-resourced, geography, Karzai illegitimacy and lack of political will and patience – prefer recency
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Akhter and Peters 9/15</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Afreen and Kathryn, both second year students who spent this past summer in Afghanistan. Afreen worked on development and women’s rights in Bamyan province and Kabul, and Kathryn monitored political rights with the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission in Kabul, 2010, “Citizen Forum: What Are We Fighting For?”, [[http://harvardcitizen.com/2010/09/15/citizen-forum-what-are-we-fighting-for/]], AV)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">We are conducting</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> to our interests</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>
===COIN 1AC - Diplomacy Advantage, St. Marks Round 4=== 
<span class="TagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Presence in Afghanistan kills our moral legitimacy – withdrawal opens up space for diplomacy </span></span>
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pascal 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Zachary, a member of the In These Times Board of Editors and a professor of journalism at Stanford University and is a fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “[[http://towardfreedom.com/home/global-news/1717-the-case-for-an-immediate-withdrawal-from-afghanistan|The Case For An Immediate Withdrawal From Afghanistan]]”,October 12, 2009, [[http://towardfreedom.com/home/content/view/1717/106/]])</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">For</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> President </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Obama, </span>…in distant lands.</span>

<span class="TagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">COIN destroys our foreign policy priorities—includes resources for diplomacy and climate change </span></span>
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cohen 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, 11/30, "Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ...", [[http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html]])</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Sending</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from 30,000 …and his presidency.</span>

Increasing credibility now is key to future warming negotiations
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schmidt 9/13</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jake, international climate policy director at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a U.S.-based environmental action group, was director of international programs at the Center for Clean Air Policy, “Key steps on global warming need to be agreed in Mexico”, 9/13/10, [[http://www.alertnet.org/db/blogs/66373/2010/08/13-104418-1.htm]], AV)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">This December, 194 </span>…and implementation steps.</span>

That solves warming – strong political credibility is necessary
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Atkins 9/22</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andy, executive director of leading environmental charity Friends of the Earth, was previously policy and campaigns director at relief and development agency Tearfund, 2010, “Cancún talks may not reach a deal but there are still reasons for optimism”, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2010/sep/22/climate-deal-resistance]], AV)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">When it comes …our leaders must.</span>

Warming is real, anthropogenic, and causes extinction
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deibel 7</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Finally, </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">there is </span>… on this planet</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

And, CO2 emissions drastically reduce oxygen levels, causing extinction
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tatchell 8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Peter, 8/13, “The oxygen crisis: Could the decline of oxygen in the atmosphere undermine our health and threaten human survival?,” The Guardian, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/13/carbonemissions.climatechange]</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">The rise in …longer </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> be sustained</span>.</span>

=== === 
===COIN 1AC - Glenbrooks Round 1=== 


<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">New Plan:</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan to a level consistent with a counterterrorism posture.</span>**

COIN fails by every metric – prefer recency and statistics to military propaganda
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cohen 10/29</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael A, senior fellow at the American Security Project and writes about Afghanistan, 2010, “Petraeus Versus Obama”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/29/petraeus_versus_obama?page=0,0]], AV)</span>
Today <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">there are </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span></span>Afghanistan's bleak reality. 

===COIN 1AC - Multilateralism Advantage, Glenbrooks Octas=== 

Material collapse of hegemony is inevitable
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne and Schwarz 9/29</span></span> <span style="color: black;">(Christopher, professor of government at Texas A&M and a consultant to the National Intelligence Council and Benjamin, literary and national editor of the Atlantic, 2009, “Twilight of Pax Americana”, http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/commentary/la-oe-schwarz29-2009sep29,0,4375015.story)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">The international order…of world powers.</span>

But, withdrawal from Afghanistan allows the US to recapture international legitimacy
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Haddick 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert Haddick, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, former Marine Corps Officer, holds a B.A. and M.B.A. from the University of Illinois, “This Week at War: The Afghanistan Vortex,” Foreign Policy, June 25, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/25/this_week_at_war_the_afghanistan_vortex)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">Afghanistan is becoming…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">considered and rejected.</span>


And, a shift in away from counterinsurgency reasserts US institutional principles – that’s comparatively more important to heg 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Polk 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (William Polk, the member of the U.S. Policy Planning Council responsible for the Middle East from 1961 to 1965. Subsequently, he was professor of history and director of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Chicago and later president of the Adlai Stevenson Institute of International Affairs. Author of many books on international affairs, world and Middle Eastern history, 11-23-09, “How to Get Out of Afghanistan”, http://hnn.us/articles/120371.html | Suo)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">We are indeed…</span></span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">on the hill</span>.” </span>

Building hegemony with institutional legitimacy means the world order outlasts US material decline – the alternative is great power conflict
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kromah 9</span></span> (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">I see a</span>…</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">in world affairs.” 60</span>

And, lack of legitimacy constrains the exercise of hegemony anyway
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mendelsohn 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Barak Mendelsohn is an assistant professor of political science at Haverford College and a senior fellow of FPRI. Author of Combating Jihadism: American Hegemony and Interstate Cooperation in the War on Terrorism, June 2010, “The Question of International Cooperation in the War on Terrorism”, http://www.fpri.org/enotes/201006.mendelsohn.cooperationwarterror.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Going against common…exercise of power.</span>

Hegemony through legitimacy solves all global problems – otherwise there’s backlash against exertion of power
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kromah 9</span></span> (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">A final major</span>…of international security</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>57

America can’t solve the world’s problems on its own – only a shift toward a strategy of engagement can solve warming, terror, prolif, and econ
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Haass 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard N. Haass, President of the Council on Foreign Relations, “Good Policies for Great Countries”, 2010-05-18, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/haass31/English]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NEW YORK – </span><span class="UnderlineChar">We are in… what succeeds it.</span>

Warming is real, anthropogenic, and causes extinction
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deibel 7</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">there is</span>…on this planet</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Continuing a failed strategy in Afghanistan undermines our leadership
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Innocent and Carpenter 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf | Suo)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Former national security…</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> than</span> would <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">withdrawal</span>.</span>

===Beacon 1AC - Blake Round 6=== 

Tyler and I advocate that the debate space be used to end the occupation of Afghanistan.

Contention 1: End the War

COIN fails by every metric
Cohen 10/29 (Michael A, senior fellow at the American Security Project and writes about Afghanistan, 2010, “Petraeus Versus Obama”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/29/petraeus_versus_obama?page=0,0]], AV)
Today there are...Afghanistan's bleak reality. 

COIN is rooted in a Western nation-building ideology – the US props up the ineffective central government
Preble 10 (Christopher A. Preble, Director of Foreign Policy studies at the Cato Institute, May 21, 2010, “Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834)
The appropriate question ...in the world.

Contention Two: Debate about Afghanistan is Good

Incorporating our criticism of the language surrounding the Afghanistan war into public policy reverses hyper-militaristic and violent narratives.
Crowe 7 (Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, [[http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf]])
The historical production...is being disappeared?

[[#LastEdit]]
Cloud 4 (Dana L., Associate Prof. And Dir. Graduate Studies – Dept. Comm – UT Austin, Quarterly Journal of Speech, “”To Veil the Threat of Terror”: Afghan Women and the Clash of Civilizations”, 90(3), August, Ebsco)
Scholars should understand ... humanity, solidarity, and peace. 

Debate over Afghanistan is good – key to break down military control of policy.
Kelly 10 (Lorelei, Washington D.C.-based national security expert and director of the New Strategic Security Initiative, Afghanistan: Should We Stay or Should we go?”, Foreign Policy in Focus, 4/14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/afghanistan_should_we_stay_or_should_we_go)
What I keep ...is the military. 


Public debate about Afghanistan is good
Wright 10 (Glenn, Political Buzz Examiner, 7/29, “Failure of the 'public debate' on Afghanistan”, [[http://www.examiner.com/x-58643-Political-Buzz-Examiner%7Ey2010m7d29-Failure-of-the-Public-Debate-on-Afghanistan|http://www.examiner.com/x-58643-Political-Buzz-Examiner~y2010m7d29-Failure-of-the-Public-Debate-on-Afghanistan]])
When the WikiLeaks ...do about it? 

Our form of debate is necessary for the creation of an agonistic debate community – the alternative is antagonism
Arendt 5 (Hannah, The Promise of Politics. P. 18-19)
More than his ...rulership is needed.

The embrace of identity politics is naïve – true equity requires Agonistic pluralism through our form of debate
Deylami 4 (Shirin S. Deylami, Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, “(Un)Closeting Democracy: the Limits and Possibilities of Legalism in the Pursuit of Queer Politics”, AllAcademic)
Political Recognition and ...unfair “special” protections. 13 

Agonism prevents mass genocides, war, and absolute exclusion by acknowledging ideological distinctions
Rasch 5 (William, Henry H. H. Remak Professor of Germanic Studies at Indiana University Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle South Atlantic Quarterly 104 (2) http://saq.dukejournals.org/cgi/reprint/104/2/253.pdf)
Schmitt, then, starts ...of absolute exclusion

Contention 3: Urbicide
Current imperial violence functions by obscuring the ways in which our cities are targets. We have to collapse the analytic distinction to resist
Graham 6 (Volume 30.2 June 2006 255–76 International Journal of Urban and Regional Research Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council)
The purpose of ...‘private military corporations’ (Harvey, 2003; Chatterjee, 2004; Boal et al. , 2005). 

Domestic urbicide spills over to global urbicide – the same ideology of subconscious racial fear propels both 
Graham 9 (Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 DOI: 10.1080/13604810903298425 URL: [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425]] Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council.)
In the contemporary ...Baghdad or Gaza.

We have to connect our foreign policymaking to the struggle at home – connect core sites of resistance is key to overcome militarism.
Graham 9 (Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 DOI: 10.1080/13604810903298425 URL: [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425]] Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council.)
The power of ...lock-down democratic politics (Zimmermann, 2007). 

Critical urban geography has to UNITE struggles – violence against urban spaces is a unified front that collapses their home and abroad distinction
Graham 9 (Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 DOI: 10.1080/13604810903298425 URL: [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425]] Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council.)
Here the latest ...camps and gulags 

This is particularly true in the context of the war on terrorism 
Graham 9 (Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 DOI: 10.1080/13604810903298425 URL: [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425]] Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council.)
In rendering all ...contemporary French Republic.5 


===COIN 1AC - Pakistan Advantage, Blake Round 7=== 

COIN collapses Pakistan, unites the Taliban and overwhelms any current safeguards – only withdrawal solves
Fuller 9 ([[#_GoBack]]Graham E., an American author and political analyst, specializing in Islamic extremism, former CIA station chief in Kabul and a former vice-chair of the CIA's National Intelligence Council. He is author of numerous books on the Middle East, including The Future of Political Islam, 5/10, “Obama's Policies Making Situation Worse in Afghanistan and Pakistan,” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/graham-e-fuller/global-viewpoint-obamas-p_b_201355.html]])
For all the ...hear that debate.

There is a direct tradeoff – large scale presence pushes the Taliban into Pakistan
Innocent 9 (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute. She is a member of the International Institute of Strategic Studies, 4/24/09, “Withdrawing from Afghanistan”, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/04/24/withdrawing-from-afghanistan/ | Suo)
I described the ...the Taliban’s incursions. 

That collapses Pakistan
Akhtar 10 (Shameem, professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university 1/26/10, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” [[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout|http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#]])
If it is ...destabilizing the state.

Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia
Pitt 9 - a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183) 
But a suicide ...should we all.

===COIN 1AC – MBA===
**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan**

Contention 1: Stability

**Counterinsurgency will inevitably fail – multiple warrants**
**Nelson 9** (Rick "Ozzie", Director, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Program and Senior Fellow, International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Oct 1, “The Other Side of the COIN”, http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin)

A1: Probably not. Counterinsurgency doctrine, . . . “all-in” approach would entail.

**COIN fails by every metric – prefer statistics to military propaganda**
**Cohen 10** (Michael A, senior fellow at the American Security Project and writes about Afghanistan, 10/29, “Petraeus Versus Obama”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/29/petraeus_versus_obama?page=0,0, AV)

Today there are two wars taking place in . . . of halting progress divorced from Afghanistan's bleak reality. 

**Now is the key time – counterterrorism is uniquely sustainable and delay risks precipitous withdrawal**
**Simon and Stevenson 9** (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough”, Survival: Global Politics and Strategy, vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo)

It follows that the most difficult challenge to . . . government wish to use them for that purpose.

**US presence creates deepening spirals of instability and violence – a minimalist approach is key**
**Simon and Stevenson 9** (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough”, Survival: Global Politics and Strategy, vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo)

Finally, within the operational environment of Afghanistan . . . the transfer of nuclear weapons to the Taliban.
	
**COIN is inherently hostile to local authority structures**
**Friedman 9** (Benjamin H. Friedman, research fellow in defense and homeland security studies, September 3, “Making Enemies in Afghanistan”, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/03/making-enemies-in-afghanistan/ | Suo)

Yaroslav Trofimov’s article in Wednesday’s Wall Street Journal . . . them, but it’s a possibility worth considering.

**Withdrawal would create a locally-driven balance of power**
**Suhrke 10** (Astri, Senior Research Fellow, Chr. Michelsen Institute, Ph. D. in International Relations from the University of Denver, 17 March, “The Case for a Light Footprint: The international project in Afghanistan”, http://www.cmi.no/file/?997)

The insurgency has had a multiplier effect on . . . seemed to be the way developments were going. 

**This provincial security regime is the best way to stabilize Afghanistan**
**Fisher 9** (Max, associate editor for the Atlantic on foreign affairs and national security, Nov 18 2009, “Can Warlords Save Afghanistan?”, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2009/11/can-warlords-save-afghanistan/30397/)

President Obama has made it clear that any . . . stability in Afghanistan with a foreseeable exit strategy. 

**Inevitable destabilization that results leads to violent fragmentation of Afghanistan, resulting in multiple nuclear wars**
**Morgan 7** (Stephen John, former National Executive Officer of the British Labour Party, his responsibilities included international relations, ethnic minority work, women’s issues, finance, local government and organization, he specialised particularly in international crisis situations spending long periods working in Belfast, in efforts to overcome sectarian strife and terrorism, former Director of WIC, a research and publishing company based in London, he went to live in Budapest during the Gorbachov period from where he helped build opposition groups in the underground in Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and East Germany, Stephen left active politics in the early 1990 and came to live in Brussels, where he established and managed his own publishing company, has lived and worked in more than 27 different countries, including underground political work during the troubles in in Northern Ireland and war in Yugoslavia, http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639) 

Although disliked and despised in many quarters, . . . Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!

**That draws in Russia**
**Goble 10** (Paul, Georgian Daily, “Afghan Conflict Spreading into Central Asia, Russian Analyst Says”, 1-14, http://georgiandaily.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=16458&Itemid=65)

Because NATO has chosen to supply its forces . . . ” Russia will be drawn in as well.

**Nuclear war**
**Shorr 1** (Ira, Analyst, Institute for Policy Studies, Washington D.C., “Greatest Peril is Still Nuclear,” THE RECORD (BERGEN COUNTY, NJ), October 14, 2001, LN)

While these actions helped the nuclear superpowers back . . . serious about preventing the use of nuclear weapons.

**No risk of Taliban takeover – withdrawal would kill their cohesion**
**Walt 12/29** (Stephen, Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international relations at Harvard University., 2010, “Helping our enemies work together”, http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/12/29/helping_our_enemies_work_together)

The news that various Afghan and Pakistani insurgent . . . -natural allies more reason to work together? 

Contention 2: al-Qaeda

**They are actively seeking nuclear weapons for use now**
**Evans 10** (Michael Evans, Pentagon Correspondent, Washington, April 12, 2010, “Hillary Clinton fears al-Qaeda is obtaining nuclear weapons material”, http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/us_and_americas/article7094876.ece)

Terrorists including al-Qaeda pose a serious . . . and dozens of smart briefcase bombs are available." 
****
**Material has already been stolen and an attack is coming in 2013**
**Hall 10** (Mimi Hall, staff writer for USA Today, 4/12/2010, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm)

Obama said "the single biggest threat" . . . used in a terrorist attack" by 2013. 

**Extinction**
**Morgan 9** (Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race)

In a remarkable website on nuclear war, . . . the accidental or reckless use of strategic weapons.

**al Qaeda represents an existential threat – religious ideology short-circuits deterrence **
**Gorka 10** (Sebastian L. v. Gorka, Faculty of the Irregular Warfare Department of the National Defense University, Washington DC, and member of the US Atlantic Council’s Strategic Advisers’ Group, 5/17/10, “Al-Qaeda and Afghanistan in Strategic Context: Counterinsurgency versus Counterterrorism (WP)”, http://www.realinstitutoelcano.org/wps/portal/rielcano_eng/Content?WCM_GLOBAL_CONTEXT=/elcano/elcano_in/zonas_in/dt15-2010 | Suo)
	
Almost immediately after 9/11, members . . . in Afghanistan and Pakistan will not be achievable.


**CT is sufficient to keep the Taliban down and prevent safe havens in Afghanistan**
**Cortright 9** (David Cortright, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, OCTOBER 19, 2009, “No Easy Way Out”, http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=11917 | Suo)

This analysis suggests the need for a thorough . . . their purposes more effectively and with greater justice.

**Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack **
**Arkedis 9** (Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven | Suo)

As deliberations about the Obama administration's strategic direction . . . Qaeda the only physical space it can access.


**Withdrawal is a prerequisite to effective CT – presence creates a legitimacy gap and reduces leverage**
**Boyle 10** (Michael J. Boyle, Professor at the University of St. Andrews - Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?”, International Affairs 86: 2 (2010) 333–353 | Suo)

Another set of offsetting effects emerges if counterinsurgency . . . leverage needed to achieve its essential counterterrorism goals.

Contention 3: Non-Polarity

**Material collapse of hegemony is inevitable – power has been decoupled**
**Haass 8** (Richard, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, April 16, 2008,”The Age of Nonpolarity”, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2008/04/the_age_of_nonpolarity.html)

The principal characteristic of twenty-first-. . . of distributed, rather than concentrated, power.

**But, withdrawal from Afghanistan allows the US to recapture legitimacy**
**Haddick 10** (Robert Haddick, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, former Marine Corps Officer, holds a B.A. and M.B.A. from the University of Illinois, “This Week at War: The Afghanistan Vortex,” Foreign Policy, June 25, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/25/this_week_at_war_the_afghanistan_vortex)

Afghanistan is becoming a deepening vortex for both . . . which Obama has presumably considered and rejected.

**And, a shift away from counterinsurgency reasserts US institutional principles – that’s comparatively more important to heg **
**Polk 9** (William Polk, the member of the U.S. Policy Planning Council responsible for the Middle East from 1961 to 1965. Subsequently, he was professor of history and director of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Chicago and later president of the Adlai Stevenson Institute of International Affairs. Author of many books on international affairs, world and Middle Eastern history, 11-23-09, “How to Get Out of Afghanistan”, http://hnn.us/articles/120371.html | Suo)

We are indeed at a cross-roads . . . world’s peoples “a city on the hill.” 

**Building hegemony with institutional legitimacy means the world order outlasts US material decline – the alternative is great power conflict**
**Kromah 9** (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)

I see a multi-polar world as . . . decline of American predominance in world affairs.” 60
**	**
**And, lack of legitimacy constrains the exercise of hegemony anyway**
**Mendelsohn 10** (Barak Mendelsohn is an assistant professor of political science at Haverford College and a senior fellow of FPRI. Author of Combating Jihadism: American Hegemony and Interstate Cooperation in the War on Terrorism, June 2010, “The Question of International Cooperation in the War on Terrorism”, http://www.fpri.org/enotes/201006.mendelsohn.cooperationwarterror.html)

Going against common conceptions, I argue that . . . actions and prevents the uninhibited exercise of power.
****
**Hegemony through legitimacy solves all global problems – otherwise there’s backlash against exertion of power**
**Kromah 9** (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)

A final major gain to the United States . . . without a broad measure of international security. 57

**Continuing a failed strategy in Afghanistan undermines our leadership**
**Innocent and Carpenter 9** (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf | Suo)
	
Former national security adviser Henry Kissinger, Council . . . U.S. security than would withdrawal.

**Independently, multilateralism is the only way to solve global warming**
**Patrick 9** (Stewart, Senior Fellow and Director, Program on International Institutions and Global Governance, Washington Quarterly, October 1, “Prix Fixe and a` la Carte: Avoiding False Multilateral Choices”, EBSCO)

Anticipating similar criticisms, the Obama administration launched . . . should be mutually reinforcing, not mutually exclusive.

**Warming is real, anthropogenic, and causes extinction**
**Deibel 7** (Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)

Finally, there is one major existential threat . . . the continued existence of life on this planet.

**The Taliban are flexible – concepts like momentum don’t exist and their political calculus precludes negotiations**
**Stratfor 10** (Global intelligence company, October 28, 2010, “Notions of Progress and Negotiation in Afghanistan”, http://www.stratfor.com/node/174702/geopolitical_diary/20101027_notions_progress_and_negotiation_afghanistan)

According to a report Wednesday in The Washington . . . first and foremost as lacking that latter possibility.

===COIN 1AC - Pipeline Politics Advantage - Emory===

**We’ll isolate two internal links**
**First, security – military presence is necessary to guard pipeline construction efforts**
**Bhadrakumar 10** (Ambassador M K Bhadrakumar was a career diplomat in the Indian Foreign Service. His assignments included the Soviet Union, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Germany, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Kuwait and Turkey. Dec 23, 2010, “NATO weaves South Asian web”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/South_Asia/LL23Df06.html)

The pipeline signifies a breakthrough in the longstanding . . . long-term Western military presence in Afghanistan. 
****
**Second, central governance – TAPI funding needs Kabul’s support – development and nation-building efforts are key**
**Foster 10** (John Foster, an energy economist (World Bank, Inter-American Development Bank, British Petroleum, Petro-Canada, author of Afghanistan, the TAPI Pipeline, and Energy Geopolitics in the Journal of Energy Security. September 3, 2010, “The disconnect between pipelines and transparency”, Lexis)

Both Liberals and Conservatives have mused about staying . . . answers. The time for transparency is now. 

**Plans for TAPI mean India pulls out of the IPI pipeline – that opens the door for China to build up Gwadar, encircle India, and seize Central Asian energy supplies**
**Fillingham 9** (Zachary Fillingham, contributor to Geopoliticalmonitor.com, November 5, 2009, “India, China & the IPI pipeline”, http://www.geopoliticalmonitor.com/india-china-the-ipi-pipeline-1/)

The 2,700 kilometer pipeline originally sought . . . are also willing to do business with anyone. 

**Tensions caused by a perception of Indian encirclement of China cause global nuclear conflict**
**Margolis 10** (Eric Margolis award-winning, internationally syndicated columnist. His articles appear in the New York Times, the International Herald Tribune, the Los Angeles Times, Times of London, the Gulf Times, the Khaleej Times and other news sites in Asia. August 29, 2010, “China and India: War of the Worlds”, http://www.ericmargolis.com/political_commentaries/china-and-india--war-of-the-worlds.aspx)

In 1962, India moved troops into remote . . . the Gulf, where today America's rules supreme.

**Most likely scenario for extinction – potential for miscalculation is high**
**Dhume 9** (Sadanand Dhume, Washington-based writer and journalist, and the author of My Friend the Fanatic: Travels with a Radical Islamist. He is also a non-resident fellow at the Asia Society. This is reprinted from YaleGlobal, the magazine of the Yale Center for the Study of Globalization, 21 December 2009, “The Face-off Between India and China”, http://www.asiasentinel.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2204&Itemid=376)
 
For the first time in more than . . . Dalai Lama from an area outside Chinese control.
****
**And, political and military considerations are driving India and Pakistan toward war now**
**Bremmer and Gordon 10** (Ian Bremmer and David Gordon, Ian Bremmer is president of Eurasia Group, and David Gordon is the firm's head of research. January 14, 2010, “Top Risk No. 8: India-Pakistan”, http://eurasia.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/01/14/top_risk_no_8_india_pakistan)

Having said that, there's a broader South . . . the Indian and Pakistani governments back toward confrontation.
****
**Economic confidence-building measures key to ease tensions**
**Taneja 10** (Mahima Taneja, contributor to The Jang Group, June 20, 2010, “India-Pakistan Trade”, http://www.amankiasha.com/detail_articles.asp?id=77)

India has had bitter relations with Pakistan ever . . . and let economics guide politics for a change.

**The IPI is the CRUCIAL internal link to confidence and preventing war**
**Bhadrakumar 4** (M. K. Bhadrakumar, former ambassador belonging to the Indian Foreign Service Sep 15, 2004 India, Pakistan and the 'peace' pipeline http://www.atimes.com/atimes/South_Asia/FI15Df03.html)

Diplomatic circles were keyed up more than usual. . . There was more at play here - geopolitics.
****
**Indopak conflict leads to extinction**
**Fai 1** (Dr. Ghulam Nabi, Executive Director of the Washington-based Kashmiri American Council, “India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir,” 7/8, Washington Times, http://www.pakistanlink.com/Letters/2001/July/13/05.html)
	
The foreign policy of the United States in . . . impending Fissile Material/Cut-off Convention.

===COIN 1AC - Netwar Advantage, Harvard RR Finals===
Counterinsurgency precludes network-centric warfare in Afghanistan
Arquilla 10 (John Arquilla is Professor of Defense Analysis at the Naval Postgraduate School, September 2010, “A "Net Shift" for Afghanistan”, http://www.ndu.edu/press/net-shift-for-afghanistan.html)

If the conflict in Iraq started out with . . . was not a result driven principally by numbers.

Decentralized CT spills over – it’s a doctrinal laboratory
Arquilla 10 (John Arquilla is Professor of Defense Analysis at the Naval Postgraduate School, September 2010, “A "Net Shift" for Afghanistan”, http://www.ndu.edu/press/net-shift-for-afghanistan.html)

The foregoing analysis has conveyed the sense that. . . shift now is the change we need. PRISM

And, Afghanistan is the proving ground for net-centric warfare
Reynolds 6 (Kevin Reynolds, currently assigned to the Department of Distance Education (DDE), U.S. Army War College as a professor and course author. Prior to his present assignment, he served as the Director of First Year Studies within DDE. November 2006, “DEFENSE TRANSFORMATION: TO WHAT, FOR WHAT?”, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub733.pdf)

Enamored with the potentially decisive advantage that information . . . space—warfare will be truly revolutionized. 13

Network centric warfare is crucial to maintaining hegemony
Wilson 4 (Clay Wilson, Specialist in Technology and National Security Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service, June 2, 2004, “Network Centric Warfare: Background and Oversight Issues for Congress”, http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/33858.pdf)

Introduction This report provides background information and discusses . . . that involves people, processes, and systems.
US hegemony solves all problems
Thayer 6 [Bradley Thayer, Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, “In Defense of Primacy”, The National Interest, December (lexis)]

THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been . . . primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides.

Independently, network centric warfare prevents all future conflict
Wilson 4 (Clay Wilson, Specialist in Technology and National Security Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service, June 2, 2004, “Network Centric Warfare: Background and Oversight Issues for Congress”, http://fpc.state.gov/documents
/organization/33858.pdf)

The network centric approach to warfare is the . . . adaptability for both joint and coalition NCW operations.

A netwar doctrine can realign US strategy to make hegemony sustainable and avoid any potential blowback
Arquilla 10 (John Arquilla, professor of defense analysis at the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, MARCH/APRIL 2010, “The New Rules of War”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/the_new_rules_of_war)

The irony, however, is that the . . . shape it, saving the world from darkness.

Even if withdrawal hurts credibility, failure is net worse
Innocent and Carpenter 9 (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf | Suo)

Former national security adviser Henry Kissinger, Council . . . U.S. security than would withdrawal.

==2AC== 
===Add-Ons=== 
====Russia==== 

US presence in Afghanistan is a flashpoint for US-Russian conflict
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cullison and Dreazen 9</span></span> (Alan Cullison And Yochi J. Dreazen, Staff Writers for The Wall Street Journal, February 5, 2009, “Moscow Moves to Counter U.S. Power in Central Asia”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123378027003448977.html | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">MOSCOW --><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Russia is reasserting </span>…<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Washington think tank. </span></span>
==== ==== 
====NATO==== 
Draw down key to Cohesion
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bacevich 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Andrew – professor of history and international relations @ Boston University, “Let Europe be Europe: Why the United States must withdraw from NATO”, March/April, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/let_europe_be_europe?page=0,1]]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the course …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> its own affairs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

Nuclear War
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Duffield 95</span>__** (John S**,** Assistance Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs at the University of Virginia, NATO’s Functions After the Cold War, Political Science Quarterly, JSTOR)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although so far …</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> countries from meddling</span>.__

====Economy==== 

Plan solves the economy
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Innocent 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Malou Innocent is a foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute. December 2, 2009, “A Costly Mistake”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11027 | Suo)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Whether the rationale …makes you wonder.</span>

====China Coop==== 

China perceives US presence in Afghanistan as encirclement
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clarke 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christopher M. Clarke, independent China consultant at the Yale Center for the Study of Globalization He retired in 2009 after 25 years as a China analyst and head of the China Division of the State Department’s Bureau of Intelligence and Research, 19 March 2010, “Xinjiang – Where China’s Worry Intersects the World”, [[http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/xinjiang-where-chinas-worry-intersects-world]])</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">US intervention </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> China has diminished.</span>

That precludes US-China cooperation
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shambaugh and Inderfurth 7</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David Shambaugh is director of the China Policy Program in the Elliott School of International Affairs and professor of political science and international affairs at George Washington University. He is also a nonresident senior fellow in the Foreign Policy Studies Program at the Brookings Institution in Washington, DC. Karl F. Inderfurth is director of the International Affairs Program in the Elliott School of International Affairs and the John O. Rankin Professor of the Practice on International Affairs at George Washington University. He served as assistant secretary of state for South Asian affairs from 1997 to 2001, 11 April 2007, “China and the US: To Hedge or Engage”, http://www.yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/china-and-us-hedge-or-engage)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON: </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Some of …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">is in Asia.</span>

Solves every impact
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Xinhua 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2009, “China, U.S. to build positive, cooperative and comprehensive relationship in 21st century”, http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2009-04/02/content_11116139.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The current international …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> of bilateral relations.</span>

===2AC T Non Combat=== 
Presence is forces and their equipment for military operations.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">GAO 99</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> (Government Accountability Office, Report to Congressional Committees United States General Accounting Office GAO November 2001 MILITARY READINESS Effects of a U.S. Military Presence in Europe on Mobility Requirements, http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA396948)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The Department of </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">base support sets. </span>


<span class="TagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Their interpretation is arbitrary – noncombat has no definition</span></span>
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Keating 8/3</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> (Joshua E, associate editor at Foreign Policy, 2010, "What's the Difference Between Combat and Noncombat Troops?", </span><span style="color: blue;">[[@http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/08/03/what_s_the_difference_between_combat_and_noncombat_troops]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">On Monday, U.S…</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> bit of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">combat</span>. </span>

Destroys the Topic – anything can be combat
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Scheimer 9</span></span><span class="verdana"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> (J. D. Candidate, 2009, American University, Washington College of Law; B.A. Government, 2003, College of William and Mary. Michael Scheimer is a National Security Policy Analyst with a major defense contractor. “Separating Private Military Companies From Illegal Mercenaries in International Law: Proposing an International Convention for Legitimate Military and Security Support That Reflects Customary International Law” 24 Am. U. Int'l L. Rev. 609</span></span>

<span class="verdana"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">For purposes of …</span></span><span class="UnderlineChar">non-state actors involved</span><span class="verdana"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">.</span></span>

The aff is key to education.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Long 10</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> (Austin, Assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan,” Orbis, Spring 2010, Science Direct)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> One of </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the </span>…</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> to fail if attempted.2 </span>

A 13,000 troop reduction in Afghanistan is substantial
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aranda 8</span></span> (JD CANDIDATE BROOKLYN LAW, SUPREME COURT’S POST 9/11 WAR ON TERROR JURISPRUDENCE, 73 BROOKLYN L. REV. 645, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Regardless of the … law-of-war principles.</span>

Presence is the same as overseas presence
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dismukes 94</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – representative of the Center for Naval Analyses to the London staff of the Commander in Chief, U.S. Naval Forces Europe. (Bradford, “National Security Strategy and Forward Presence: Implications for Acquisition and Use of Forces,” March, http://cna.org/sites/default/files/research/2793019200.pdf) </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">This</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> paper </span><span class="UnderlineChar">uses …<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">forward presence interchangeably</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Presence includes combat forces – experts vote aff
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christopher, Pro­fes­sor, and Robert M. Gates Chair in Intel­li­gence and National Security, George H. W. Bush School of Gov­ern­ment and Pub­lic Service, Texas A & M University, 5/12, Email Conversation with Debate Coach posted @ http://abnormalmeans.com/2010/05/definition-of-military-presence/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> My <span class="domtooltips">inter­pre­ta­tion</span> would … bases in N. Korea.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Substantial is 50%</span>
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">DoD 2</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (US Department of Defense (DOD), produced by the Office of Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics), Office of Assistant Secretary of Defense (Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence), Office of Director, Operational Test and Evaluation, “Mandatory Procedures for Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPS) and Major Automated Information Systems (MAIS) Acquisition Programs,” April 5, 2002, [[http://www.explorationsystems.nasa.gov/documents/TTT_052005/DoD50002R.pdf%20DA%207/12/2010|http://www.explorationsystems.nasa.gov/documents/TTT_052005/DoD50002R.pdf DA 7/12/2010]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">C7.10.3.12. The DoD … or reduced participation.</span>

More ev from Congressional bills

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pallone 3</span></span> – US Congressional Representative (Text of H.R. 3189, introduced by Pallone, to amend Title XVII of the Social Security Act,” 9/25, http://www.theorator.com/bills108/hr3189.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">`(7) SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTION- </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> sentence of section 602(3).' </span>

===2AC Obama Good=== 
CT provides Obama cover
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">LA Times 09</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> October 27, 2009 “John Kerry's Afghan war speech; Foreshadowing Obama's decision?” <latimes.com/washington/2009/10/john-kerry-barack-obama-afghanistan-war-speech-text.html></span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">With casualties rising</span>…bad-situation lines.</span>

Winner’s Win- By spending Political Capital Obama gets more.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Singer 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> an editor of MyDD, a position he has held since November 2005. Singer is a Juris Doctorate candidate at Berkeley Law, 3/3 (Johnathan, My direct Democracy, By expending capital, Obama Grows His Capital, [[http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Peter Hart gets …war in Iraq.</span>

Reducing troops costs less political capital than maintaining COIN.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Inboden 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (William, senior vice president of the Legatum Institute, 8/21, “Obama and LBJ: A Comparison to Avoid”, http://blog.american.com/?p=4139)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet </span><span class="UnderlineChar">there are …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">what not to do. </span>

COIN costs more pol cap than CT.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">McManus 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Doyle, 9/27, LA Times, “Obama's choice in Afghanistan”, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2009/sep/27/opinion/oe-mcmanus27/2]])</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The president faces </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">long-term results.</span>

Escalating the war drains pol cap.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gandelman 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Joe, editor-in-chief, “Obama’s Afghanistan Plan: Recipe for Success or Political and Military Failure?,” THE MODERATE VOICE, [[http://themoderatevoice.com/54933/obamas-afghanistan-plan-recipe-for-success-or-political-and-military-failure/]]]</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Can Obama survive</span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">seemed to weaken.</span>

Plan’s the only way to boost Obama’s political capital and win back the liberal base
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cameron 11/17</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bruce P, 2010, “Obama's No-Win Afghan Quandary”, [[@http://www.consortiumnews.com/2010/111710a.html]])</span>
As President Barack <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span></span> from Bush’s administration. 

=== === 
===2AC India Relations DA=== 

Afghanistan’s not key to India relations – and a CT posture is sufficient to solve anyway – our argument is directly responsive to their evidence
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pritchett 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Raymond Pritchett, Technologist, Entrepreneur, and Government IT Consultant with specialization in large public and private tech project strategy development and implementation, September 24, 2010, “The Afghanistan Exaggeration”, http://www.informationdissemination.net/2010/09/afghanistan-exaggeration.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Farley</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has </span><span class="UnderlineChar">… US and China.</span>

India will never align with China and plan increases relations – Kaplan is wrong
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Farley 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert Farley, Assistant Professor, started at the Patterson School in 2005 as a post-doc scholar. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Washington Department of Political Science in 2004. September 23, 2010, “Balancing and Bandwagoning”, http://www.lawyersgunsmoneyblog.com/2010/09/balancing-and-bandwagoning)</span>
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Robert <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Kaplan says </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">while possessing neither.</span>

India opposes long-term conflict in Afghanistan – recent strategic shift
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">D’Souza 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Shanthie Mariet D’Souza, Associate Fellow, Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi, October 22, 2009, “Securing India’s interests in Afghanistan”, http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/lead/article37329.ece)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">As instability and …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> into the mainstream.” </span>
=== === 
===2AC NATO Cohesion DA=== 

Non-Unique - NATO Cohesion low now
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dempsey 5/16</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [Judy, Staff Writer at New York Times. “East Europe Feels Ignored by NATO, Report Says” New York Times. [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/17/world/europe/17iht-nato.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> BERLIN — </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">NATO is ignoring </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">institute in London. </span>

Afghan stability solves NATO credibility
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khan 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Amina Khan, Research Fellow at the Institute of Strategic Studies, 2009, "PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA’S POLICY ON AFGHANISTAN”, http://www.issi.org.pk/photos/PRESIDENT_BARAK_OBAMA.pdf | Suo)</span>
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Afghanistan</span> has, and …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">present in Afghanistan.</span>

Impact inevitable—Current withdrawal deadline triggers the lack of commitment
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rubin 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Michael, Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. 3/8, “Why Obama was Wrong to Insist on a Deadline.” MichaelRubin.Org. March 8. [[http://www.michaelrubin.org/7033/afghanistan-withdrawal-deadline]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It is true, as …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> Iran, and even Russia</span>.

Afghanistan killing NATO Credibility
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hamilton 09</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Daniel. Executive Director of the Center of Transatlantic Relations. “Alliance Reborn: An Atlantic Compact for the 21st Century. Center for Strategic International Studies. February 2009. [[http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:8f76olNH7woJ:transatlantic.sais-jhu.edu/bin/i/y/nato_report_final.pdf]]]</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Visions of a</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">more …Pakistan and beyond. </span>

NATO is useless
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marian L. </span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Tupy</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, policy analyst with the Center for Global Liberty and Prosperity, 5/1/200</span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">3</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Worse Than Useless?” CATO institute, [[http://www.cato.org/research/articles/tupy-030501.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> From a military …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">useless</span>, it's harmful. </span>

===2AC Tribal Engagement CP=== 

Efforts to try to develop better tribal interactions with Afghanistan fail
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Innocent and Carpenter 9</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Malou, foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan, and Ted, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at CATO, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf]])</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">The United States …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 1996 to 2001</span>
The perm solves best – tribal engagement can only be effective if coupled with a reduction in the US footprint, doesn’t link to DA
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jones 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Seth, political scientist at the RAND Corporation and adjunct professor at Georgetown University, “U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan,” April, Congressional Testimony, <span style="color: black;">http://www.rand.org/pubs/testimonies/2009/RAND_CT324.pdf</span>)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">There is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> no …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> large U.S. footprint.</span></span>

===2AC Partition CP=== 

Perception of imperial presence outweighs reform efforts
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lafraie 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Najibullah Lafraie is a lecturer at the Department of Politics, University of Otago, New Zealand. Minister of State for Foreign Affairs in the Islamic State of Afghanistan, 1992-1996. He was also a member of the resistance movement against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, “Resurgence of the Taliban insurgency in Afghanistan: How and why?”, http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/JIRD_ResurgenceOfTaliban_Afghanistan.pdf )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Bush administration …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> of those feelings.</span>

**It’s effectively the same as the cp, ending large footprint COIN efforts is part of partition**
**Blackwill, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, senior fellow at the RAND Corporation, and US Ambassador to India (Robert, </span>**"A De Facto Partition for Afghanistan"**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Politico, 7/7,</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/20240/de_facto_partition_for_afghanistan.html</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
The Obama administration's …wanting Pashtun supremacy.

**Partition leads to Pakistan breakup and nuclear conflict**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 7</span></span> (Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee & a political psychologist, researcher into Chaos/Complexity Theory, "Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?", http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639)

Although disliked and …Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!

Doesn’t solve – gives Taliban control and won’t be accepted by Afghans
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Haass 10</span></span> (Richard N. Haass, President of the Council on Foreign Relations, July 18, 2010, “We’re Not Winning. It’s Not Worth It”, [[http://www.newswek.net/2010/07/18/we-re-not-winning-it-s-not-worth-it.html?from=rss|http://www.newswek.net/2010/07/18/we-re-not-winning-it-s-not-worth-it.html)]]
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">One new idea … given the chance.</span></span>

===2AC Silk Road CP=== 

Silk road fails
ADB 6 - Asian Development Bank (Chapter 3 of “Central Asia: Increasing Gains from Trade Through Regional Cooperation in Trade Policy,
Transport, and Customs Transit,” http://www.adb.org/Documents/Reports/CA-Trade-Policy/)

The recent merchandise trade performance... through unilateral or collective action.

===2AC End Strength CP=== 

CP can’t solve – takes too long to train troops
Govexec 3 (Govexec.com, 9/8, http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/0903/090803nj1.htm)

Even if the Army ... people will be.

Turn – CP trades off with transformational capabilities that are key to military power. Delays mean they can’t solve in the short term
Brown 4 (Lt. Gen Richard, FDCH Congressional Testimony, March 2)

The United States can afford... concomitantly increasing our capability.

Transformational capabilities are key to air and space power
Sega 3 (Ronald, Director of Defense Research and Engineering, DoD, Congressional Testimony, March 27, http://www.house.gov/hasc/openingstatementsandpressreleases1/08thcongress/030327saga.html)

One of the joint transformational technology... first century of manned flight.

Air and space power prevent global nuclear war
Tellis 98 - senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation (Ashley, Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century, http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf)

This subsection attempts to ... examined in this report.

===2AC Signing Statement CP===
**Substantially means an essential part of US commitment – means we do optimal means – not full legal means.**
**Words and Phrases 64** p. 818.                               
 
“Substantially” means in substance; in the main; essentially; by including the material or essential part.
****
**The president has control over withdrawals of troops – the CP wrecks SOP**
**Yoo 1NC Author 01** [John C, THE PRESIDENT'S CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT MILITARY OPERATIONS AGAINST TERRORISTS AND NATIONS SUPPORTING THEM Deputy Assistant Attorney General Office of Legal Counsel, http://www.justice.gov/olc/warpowers925.htm]
****
Fourth, depriving the President of the power . . . President's plenary authority in foreign affairs ever since.
****
**Prez power solves every impact**
**South China Morning Post 2K** [“Position of Weakness” 12-11-00, p. L/N]

A weak president with an unclear mandate is . . . States to use its power deftly and decisively.

=== === 
===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2AC Security</span>=== 

The aff should get to weigh the case against the K - Policy alternatives to Afghanistan key create change
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kelly 10</span></span> **-**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a Washington D.C.-based national security expert and director of the New Strategic Security Initiative (Lorelei, Afghanistan: Should We Stay or Should we go?”, Foreign Policy in Focus, 4/14, <span style="color: black;">http://www.fpif.org/articles/afghanistan_should_we_stay_or_should_we_go</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What I keep …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> is the military</span>.</span>

Absolute rejection of the concept of terrorism is counterproductive – we must use it pragmatically
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sederberg 89</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter C., Professor in the Dept of Govt and Int’l Studies at the U of South Carolina, Terrorist Myths: Illusion, Rhetoric, and Reality.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> No wonder critics …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> implications of terrorism.</span>

Their K essentializes Heg - Some forms are morally justifiable
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reus-Smit 4</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christian, IR @ Australian Nat’l, American Power and World Order p. 109-115)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The final ethical … is never right. </span>

Perm do the plan and all non mutually exclusive parts of the alt.– we must engage in policy to counter threats in order to effectively rethink security
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Booth 5</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ken Booth E H Carr Professor of the Department of International Politics at Aberystywth University 2005 Critical Security Studies and World Politics p. 272-276)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Although constructivism offers …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> not be higher.</span>

Prior questions fail and paralyze politics
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Owen 2</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David Owen, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Commenting on the …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">vicious circle arises</span>.</span>

Realism inevitable
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Guzzini 98</span></span> (Stefano Guzzini, Professor at the Central European University, 1998 Realism in International Relations and International Political Economy)</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third, this last …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">uncritically reproduce it</span>.</span></span>

Debates about threats are key to better policy
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walt 91</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of Political Science, University of Chicago, [Stephen Walt, Professor of Political Science, University of Chicago, International Studies Quarterly, p. 229-30])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> A recurring theme …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> avenue of influence.</span>

Predictions are good – the alternative is reliance on faulty preconceptions.
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fitzsimmons 7</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, “The Problem of Uncertainty in Strategic Planning”, Survival, Winter 06/07) </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0.1pt 0in;">But handling even ,,,the decision-makers themselves. </span>

The alternative creates no change – it will be rejected
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">McClean 1</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (McClean, Ph.D. Philosophy: The New School for Social Research, David E, “The Cultural Left And The Limits of Social Hope,” Annual Conference of the Society for the Advancement of American Philosophy. 2001 Conference]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> There is a lot …</span><span class="UnderlineChar">so-called "managerial class."</span>

Discourse and representations don’t come first
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tuathail 96</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gearoid, Department of Geography at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, Department of Geography at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), 664)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">While theoretical debates …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that is human history. </span>



=Negative= 
== == 
==Generics== 
===Topicality=== 
====ASPEC==== 
The aff has to specify one of three branches in their plan – they don’t

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rotunda 1</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (18 Const. Commentary 319, “THE COMMERCE CLAUSE, THE POLITCAL QUESTION DOCTRINE, AND MORRISON,” lexis)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">The Framers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of ,,,Houses of </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Congress</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. n12 </span>

==== ==== 
====Non-Combat==== 
Presence means non-combat activities – forces engaged in combat or one-time noncombat missions aren’t part of presence

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thomason 2</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,</span>”<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> July, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf)</span>

**__WHAT IS OVERSEAS …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> call for them. </span>
==== ==== 
====Substantially = 50%==== 

A. Interpretation – presence refers to the totality of US military power in a country
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blechman et al 97</span></span> – President of DFI International, and has held positions in the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget (Barry, Strategic Review, Spring, “Military Presence Abroad in a New Era: The Role of Airpower,” p. 14)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The highly complex …and sustainment capabilities.”2</span>

A substantial reduction in presence requires at least a 50% decrease
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act 92</span></span> (1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION … to another installation.</span>

===Kritiks=== 
====Security K==== 
A. Discourse of danger. The aff’s construction of threats produces securitization

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grondin 4</span>__** (David, Masters in Political Science & Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, “(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Approaches that deconstruct … existence are generated18.</span>

B. Security discourse causes endless apocalypse in the name of survival
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coviello 1</span></span> (Peter Coviello, Asst Prof of English – Bowdoin, Queer Frontiers, ed. Boone, author’s italics)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Perhaps. But </span><span class="UnderlineChar">to claim … be done without.</span>

C. The alternative is to vote neg to reject the aff’s security discourse – debate is key and allows us to recreate the political

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Neocleous 8</span></span> (Mark, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel Univ, Critique of Security, 185-6)

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The only way</span> … return the gift."' </span>

====Cap K==== 
A. Their focus on secondary contradictions rather than capitalism fails and only serves to reify capitalism
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tumino 1</span></span> [Stephen, Prof. English @ Pitt, “What is Orthodox Marxism and Why it Matters Now More than Ever”, Red Critique, p. online]

<span class="UnderlineChar">Any effective political …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> as social theory.</span>

B. The alternative is to reject the aff’s naturalization of the Capitalist system. Attempts to manage the __symptoms of capitalism within the system__ fail and legitimize further genocidal violence culminating in extinction.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Herbert 3</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brent, contributor to Portland Independent Media Center, 10/3 (The Genocidal Mentality, http://portland.indymedia.org/en/2003/10/273190.shtml)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Christian totalists justify …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> are to survive</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">..."</span>

C. Rejecting capitalism is a pre-requisite to solving the affirmative’s advantages
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 93</span></span> (Wendy, Professor and Genius, “Wounded Attachments”, Political Theory, Aug. p. 392-394)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As liberal discourse …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> politicized marking</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


===Counterplans=== 
====XO CP==== 

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1: Competition</span>__**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. Definitional: “The” means all parts – they’re definitionally bound to defending all branches</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Merriam-Webster's</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> No Date</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Online Collegiate Dictionary, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary]]</span> </span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">used</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as a …</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> as a whole</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. Resolutional – Resolved means legislative action</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">LHR 5</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://house.louisiana.gov/house-glossary.htm]]</span>)</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Resolution A legislative </span>____…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to governor's veto. ( Const. Art. III, §17(B) and House  Rules 8.11 , 13.1 , 6.8 , and 7.4)</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2: Solvency </span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">XOs have the force of law and can effectively implement policy</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mayer 1</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Kenneth, Professor of Political Science @ University of Wisconsin – Madison, //With the Stroke of a Pen]//</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These chronicles of … many cases disturbing.”8 </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Unilateral executive action expands presidential power and sets a precedent – each order is key. The counterplan fiats uniqueness to the link</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mayer 1</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kenneth R., Professor of Political Science @ U of Wisconsin-Madison, With the Stroke of a Pen: Executive Orders and Presidential Power, p. 56)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Much of the time, …</span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> of the Constitution</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Increased presidential powers are key to solve warming</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PCAP 8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Presidential Climate Action Project, Nonpartisan Project at the University of Colorado Denver, “Climate Action Brief: The Use of Presidential Power”, 2008 is the last date cited, http://www.climateactionproject.com/docs/briefs/Climate_Brief_Presidential_Power.pdf)</span>
__This legacy could …**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">for climate action</span>**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tickell 8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Environmental Researcher (Oliver, 8/11, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">We need to …</span>**__similar <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">hothouse Earth</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==== ==== 
====NMS CP==== 

Observation one is competition – the CP doesn’t __mandate__ the plan. It issues a __recommendation__ that __results__ in policy change.

Observation Two is Solvency

a. NMS is a keystone document that shapes military policy – it integrates consultation between Congress and the DOD, building broad support for the plan
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meinhart 8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Richard M., Professor of Defense and Joint Processes at the U.S. Army War College, “National Military Strategies: 1990 to 2007”, National Security Policy and Strategy, Ed. Bartholomees, June, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTR Doc?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> To meet these …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> global security environment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

b. NMS can effectively cause military withdrawal --- it shapes operational planning, resource allocation, and future defense planning
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Riley 94</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Don T., Lieutenant Colonel – United States Army, “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4-18, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Should not </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> now begins today.</span>

===Disads=== 
====Midterms - Democrats Bad==== 
A. GOP will win the House now – best polls and experts
Condon 9/7 (Stephanie, 2010, “Polls Offer Grim Outlook for Democrats in November”, http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-503544_162-20015666-503544.html, AV)

A series of … 229-206 advantage.

B. Plan prevents Democrats skipping the midterms
CNN 10 (6/23, “Top issues: Afghanistan and Iraq wars”, http://www.cnn.com/2010/POLITICS/05/31/issues.wars/index.html)

C. Turnout is key to Democratic recovery
Cilizza 10 (Chris, Wash Post, 4/19, "Why people dislike government (and why it matters for 2010)," http://voices.washingtonpost.com/thefix/house/why-people-dislike-government.html)

All elections are … in November.

D. GOP takeover ensures gridlock which solves market uncertainty
Bloomberg 7/19 (2010, “Why markets should hope for U.S. political gridlock”, http://www.financialpost.com/personal-finance/markets+should+hope+political+gridlock/3296665/story.html, AV)

If history is a guide, … to take control.

E. Uncertainty devastates the economy
Braithwaite 4 [John, Australian Research Council Federation fellow, The Annals of The American Academy of Political and Social Science, March, ln]

The challenge of … (see also Barbalet, 1993)

F. Extinction
Tilford 8 (Earl, PhD in history from George Washington University and served for thirty-two years as a military officer and analyst with the Air Force and Army, “Critical Mass: Economic Leadership or Dictatorship,” The Cedartown Standard, Lexis)

Could it happen …point very quickly.
==== ==== 
====START Good==== 
A. START will be ratified – Lugar is confident, bipartisan consensus being built now
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogin 9/7</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">/10 (Josh, Foreign Policy, "Kerry's draft resolution on New START already facing Hill pushback," http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/09/07/kerrys_draft_resolution_on_new_start_already_facing_hill_pushback)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Kerry and Lugar </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">rather than later. </span>

C. Political capital’s key to passage
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogov 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sergey, director of the Russian Academy of Science US and Canada Institute, January, BBC, “Russian Russian pundit views <span class="term">Obama</span>'s first year, prospects for relations with USA,” p. Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The domestic political …the United States.</span>

D. START solves nuclear war, rogue prolif, terrorism, and US-Russian relations
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collins 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James Collins, Ambassador to Russia from 1997 – 2001, Director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, recipient of the Secretary of State's Award for Distinguished Service; the Department of State's Distinguished Honor Award; the Secretary of State’s Award for Career Achievement; the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service; and the NASA Medal for Distinguished Service, 2/16/2010. “START is key to reducing the nuclear threat,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=30993)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But arguments from …we must begin.</span>

====START Uniqueness - St. Marks==== 

START will pass – momentum and lame-duck bipartisanship
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">SNS 10/7</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (State News Service, 2010, “PRESS BRIEFING WITH ROSE E. GOTTEMOELLER, ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR ARMS CONTROL, VERIFICATION AND COMPLIANCE, ON U.S. POSITIONS AT THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE OF THE UNITED NATIONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY”, Lexis, AV)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> QUESTION: (Inaudible) which …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> the end of the year.</span>

Bipartisan support ensures passage
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shorr 10/14</span></span> (David, 2010, “Senate Ratification of New START: What's At Stake”, [[http://tpmcafe.talkingpointsmemo.com/2010/10/14/senate_ratification_of_new_start_whats_at_stake/]], AV)
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The only thing </span>…holding the treaty hostage?

It will pass – modernization compromise
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collina 10/6</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tom Z, held senior leadership positions such as Executive Director of the Institute for Science and International Security, Director of Global Security at the Union of Concerned Scientists, and Senior Research Analyst at the Federation of American Scientists, 2010, “Senate Committee Approves New START”, [[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_10/SenateNewSTART]], AV)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Senate is in … for New START.</span>

START will pass now – insiders and empirics prove
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">GSN 10/6</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Global security newswire is a daily news source which focuses on nuclear and other WMD policy, 2010, “Obama Administration Pursues Landslide "New START" Vote””, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20101006_5463.php)</span>
The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Obama</span> administration … this year," Gottemoeller said.

Will pass during the lame duck – bipartisan support
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Financial 10/1</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">/10, online newspaper, “”Clinton urges Senate to ratify new START treaty after mid-term elections” http://finchannel.com/news_flash/World/72003_Clinton_urges_Senate_to_ratify_new_START_treaty_after_mid-term_elections/</span>
U.S. Secretary of … treaty," she said.

GOP will get on board – answers their economist evidence
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fabian 8/27</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jordan, “Lugar: 'Large majority' of Republicans will end up backing the START treaty”, The Hill, 2010, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/116169-lugar-large-majority-of-republicans-will-back-start-treaty]], AV)</span>

Sen. Richard <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Lugar</span>, …won't be passed.

====START Uniqueness - Glenbrooks==== 

START will pass now – Clinton and Obama push overcomes Kyl’s defection
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alexander 11/17</span></span> (David, 2010, “Hillary Clinton tries to rally Senate to back START treaty”, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6AG50L20101117]], AV)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Secretary of State …</span><span class="UnderlineChar">of the year.</span>
All their ev is wrong – Kyl’s defection mobilized support and ensures passage
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hartigan 11/17</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kelsey, 2010, “How the junior senator from AZ just ensured the Senate will ratify New START”, [[http://www.democracyarsenal.org/2010/11/how-the-junior-senator-from-az-just-ensured-the-senate-will-ratify-new-start.html#tp]])</span>
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">In a failed </span>… priority. Do it."</span>
GOP will vote yes if vote is forced – they’re just posturing
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sorcher 11/19</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sara, 2010, “Biden: If Republicans Must Vote on New START, They'll Say Yes”, [[http://www.nationaljournal.com/nationalsecurity/biden-if-republicans-must-vote-on-new-start-they-ll-say-yes-20101119]])</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">If Republicans were </span>… duty right now.”</span>
Vote counts and specific senators on board ensure passage
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bergmann 11/4</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Max, 2010, “Elections Shouldn’t Impact START Ratification”, [[http://wonkroom.thinkprogress.org/2010/11/04/elections-shouldnt-impact-start-ratification/]], AV)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">There has been …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> a likely yes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
Biden push gets 67
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seifert 11/18</span></span> (Lauren, 2010, “Can Obama JumpSTART Lame Duck Congress?”, [[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-503544_162-20023304-503544.html]], AV)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"There's no reason …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">treaty ratified</span> now."</span>
==== ==== 
====START Uniqueness - Blake==== 

START will pass – recent vote proves
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bergmann 12/15</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Max, Policy Analyst at the Center for American Progress, a nonproliferation blogger for Think Progress and formerly the Deputy Policy Director at the National Security Network, 2010, “Vote Shows New START Has Enough Support For Ratification”, http://wonkroom.thinkprogress.org/2010/12/15/start-vote/)</span>
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Ratification of</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the …</span><span class="UnderlineChar">for Kyl: irrelevance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>
Momentum
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shuster 12/13</span></span> (Mike, 2010, “Clock Ticking, Obama Urges Senate OK Of Arms Treaty”, [[http://www.npr.org/2010/12/13/132031102/clock-ticking-obama-urges-senate-ok-of-arms-treaty]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Obama</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> administration </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">…</span></span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">ratify</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> New START.</span>
GOP insiders, Corker and Isakson
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bergmann 12/16</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Max, Policy Analyst at the Center for American Progress, a nonproliferation blogger for Think Progress and formerly the Deputy Policy Director at the National Security Network, 2010, “GOP Leadership Aide: Strong Vote On START ‘Changes The Dynamic’”, [[http://wonkroom.thinkprogress.org/2010/12/16/gop-leadership-aide-strong-vote-on-start-changes-the-dynamic/]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Republicans have turned … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Isakson as well</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
GOP will vote yes when vote comes up – they’re just posturing
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Podesta 12/15</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (John, CEO and President of the Center for American Progress, 2010, “The New START Treaty Is a Test of GOP Seriousness”, [[http://campusprogress.org/articles/the_new_start_treaty_is_a_test_of_gop_seriousness/]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The New </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">St</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">rategic </span><span class="UnderlineChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. national security. </span>
Lugar push
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calabresi 12/15</span></span> (Massimo, Time, 2010, “Lugar Takes the Floor”, [[http://swampland.blogs.time.com/2010/12/15/lugar-takes-the-floor/]])
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Republican Senator Richard </span><span class="UnderlineChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> veteran Senate watchers.</span>
Amendments don’t matter
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bergmann 12/16</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Max, Policy Analyst at the Center for American Progress, a nonproliferation blogger for Think Progress and formerly the Deputy Policy Director at the National Security Network, 2010, “You Can’t Amend A Treaty”, [[http://wonkroom.thinkprogress.org/author/Max%20Bergmann]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Fortunately, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">all amendments </span>…</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> past nine months</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

====SKFTA Good - MBA====

**A. SKFTA will pass now due to momentum but Obama push is key**
**Palmers 1/5** (Doug, Reuters, 1/5/11, 2011 could be Obama's year of trade, http://www.nationalpost.com/news/features/2011+could+Obama+year+trade/4063959/story.html)

WASHINGTON — After years of trade policy stalemate. . . of them if Obama made a big push.

**B. <<LINK>>**

**C. Political capital’s key – SKFTA solves overall trade leadership, competitiveness, global economic growth, and Korea war**
**WSJ 12/6** (Wall Street Journal, 2010, “A Korea-U.S. Trade Deal, At Last”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704767804576000542290721476.html)

The Korea pact is a step forward, . . . the best interests of American businesses and workers.

**D. Korean war causes extinction**
**Hayes and Green 10** - *Victoria University AND **Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute (Peter and Michael, “-“The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 1/5, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)

The consequences of failing to address the proliferation . . . that warrants priority consideration from the international community.

====SKFTA 1NC - Harvard====

**SKFTA will pass – Obama push and economic benefits**
**Yonhap 2/16** (Hwang Doo-hyong, “Obama wants FTAs with Korea, Colombia, Panama ratified this year: Geithner”, 2011, http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2011/02/17/52/0301000000AEN20110217000400315F.HTML)

The Obama administration is committed to pass through . . . Congress to pass it as soon as possible."

**Political capital’s key**
**WSJ 1/24** (Thomas “Mack” Maclarty III and Nelson Cunningham, Mr. McLarty was chief of staff to President Clinton in 1993-94 and helped bring Bill Daley into the White House to lead the 1993 Nafta ratification effort. Mr. Cunningham was an aide to President Clinton and to then-Sen. Joseph Biden, 2011, “Obama’s Free Trade Opportunity”, online)

What now? Our experience tells us that . . . for example—to help quarterback the effort.

**SKFTA key to US trade leadership  **
**Bacchus 12/30** – chairman, Global Trade and Investment Practice Group, Greenberg Traurig (James, 12/30/10, “Reviving U.S. Power Abroad From Within,” http://www.cfr.org/publication/23701/reviving_us_power_abroad_from_within.html)

But the president may be beginning to realize . . . for achieving bipartisan success in the new year.

**Extinction **
**Dreier 1/5** – Rep. Chairman of the House Rules Committee (Rep. David Dreier, 1/5/11, Politico, “Bipartisanship can revive economy,” http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0111/47044.html)

There are no higher priorities for our country . . . to economic growth and global leadership through trade.

====Debt Ceiling, Harvard Round 3====
**Debt ceiling will be raised now **
**Dow Jones Newswires 2/16** (Jeffrey Sparshott, FEBRUARY 16, 2011, “UPDATE: Geithner Says Inaction On Debt Limit Would Harm Recovery,” http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20110216-716845.html) 

U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner . . . to trim borrowing and reduce the budget deficit. 

**But it will be a fight, capital’s key**
**Sahadi 1/2** (Jeanne, Senior Writer – CNN, “The War Over Spending”, CNN Money, 2011, http://money.cnn.com/2011/01/02/news/economy/taxes_spending_debt_2011/?cnn=yes)

Stock up on lint rollers, because the . . . professor at the Maxwell School at Syracuse University.

**Failure to raise the debt ceiling destroys the global economy**
**Min 10** (David, Associate Director for Financial Markets Policy – Center for American Progress, “The Big Freeze”, 10-28, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/10/big_freeze.html)

Increasingly, conservatives are pledging to vote against . . . recklessness for our economy and global financial markets. 

**Nuclear war**
**Harris and Burrows 9** (Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf)

Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, . . . a more dog-eat-dog world.

==Specific Rounds== 
===Round 2, GHill RR vs. Greenhill BS=== 
T-Substantial, Security K, XO,

=====__**Reverse Island Hop**__===== 
A. Closing the Futenma base leads to wildfire movements that push the US out of Japan
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feffer 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John, co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies and writes its regular World Beat column, Mar 6, “Okinawa and the new domino effect”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh02.html) </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">Wherever the US … arrow is pointing.</span>

B. That devastates US credibility in the region
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Auslin 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael Auslin, director of Japan studies at the American Enterprise Institute, JUNE 16, 2010, “The Real Futenma Fallout”, http://online.wsj.com/article/NA_WSJ_PUB:SB10001424052748704324304575307471399789704.html | Suo) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Japanese military officials … is another matter. </span>

C. Regional states’ confidence in the U.S. commitment is key to East Asian stability and U.S. __global__ leadership – the impact is rapid Japan remilitarization, China conflict and war in India-Pakistan and Korea
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goh 8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The centrality of … be much worse. </span>

=====__Conditions CP__===== 
TEXT: The Department of Defense should not redeploy Marines from Japan other than the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit if and only if we do not secure the Shimoji Base

The US should condition Okinawa withdrawal on the construction of an air base on Shimoji – they’ll say yes and this is key to deterring war with China
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goodenough 4 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Patrick Goodenough is the International Editor for [[@http://www.cnsnews.com/|CNSNews.com]]. His areas of interest include politics, security and terrorism, ethics and religion, and international relations. Patrick has covered government and politics in South Africa and the Middle East for such organisations as the Daily Dispatch, East Cape News Agencies and ICEJ/Jerusalem, and has been published in a wide range of other media outlets. He has launched foreign bureaus for CNSNews.com in Jerusalem, London, and the Pacific Rim, and also oversees international stringers, “US Reportedly Eyes Island Near Taiwan As Military Base”, CNSNews, October 14, [[http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/1245158/posts]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Three years after …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the Taiwan Strait." </span>


===Round 3, GHill RR vs. Westminster AT=== 
**ASPEC, T – NonCombat, Security, XO**

=====__1NC Reform CP__===== 
TEXT: The United States federal government should do the following:
-reform its current Afghanistan strategy by building up an archipelago of secure model districts in Northern Afghanistan
-redistribute counterinsurgency troops from the Southern Pashtun Belt to the North of Afghanistan
-stop the Taliban in the North with a more aggressive counterinsurgency, especially where their progress threatens North–South communications
-secure the urban centers in Northern Afghanistan by allocating more resources there

CP solves – fixes the problems with COIN and means we win the war
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Haddick 9</span></span> (Robert, managing editor of Small Wars Journal, October 8, “This Week at War: Where is Jones?”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/08/this_week_at_war?page=0,1]], AV)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Obama and …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> and their manifesto.</span>

CP solves heg – redistribution of troops stops casualties and means we win the war
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dorronsoro 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gilles, visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. His research focuses on security and political development in Afghanistan, particularly the role of the International Security Assistance Force, the necessary steps for a viable government in Kabul, and the conditions necessary for withdrawal scenarios. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris, and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes. He also served as the scientific coordinator at the French Institute of Anatolian Studies in Istanbul, Turkey. “Fixing a Failed Strategy in Afghanistan”, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, [[http://carnegieendowment.org/files/dorronsoro_fixing_failed_strategy2.pdf]], AV) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">new strategy</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the insurgency itself</span>.</span>

=====__CT Bad__===== 

CT fails – it’s unrealistic and empirics prove it won’t work because there won’t be enough intel
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon and Sherjan 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael E, is a senior fellow at The Brookings Institution, specializing in defense and foreign policy issues, and Hassina, is an Afghan businesswoman and activist, Brookings Institution Press, “Toughing It Out in Afghanistan”, pg. 6-7, AV) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Some argue …a poor substitute.</span>

CT leads to more air strikes – turns terror
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hegghammer 9</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Thomas Hegghammer, senior research fellow at the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment and an associate of the Initiative on Religion in International Affairs at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, 11/11/09, “The big impact of small footprint”, http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/11/11/the_big_impact_of_small_footprints) </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">It is ironic that …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> however, we cannot have it both ways. </span>

**Air strikes destabilize Pakistan and jack CT’s effectiveness – their author**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boyle 10</span></span> [Michael, Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?” International Affairs, March 10, InterScience]
<span class="UnderlineChar">The growing sense …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Karzai government. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CT leads to more air strikes – turns terror </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hegghammer 9</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Thomas Hegghammer, senior research fellow at the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment and an associate of the Initiative on Religion in International Affairs at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, 11/11/09, “The big impact of small footprint”, http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/11/11/the_big_impact_of_small_footprints) </span>

__It is ironic …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> we cannot have it both ways. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Air strikes destabilize Pakistan and jack CT’s effectiveness – their author </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boyle 10</span>__** [Michael, Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?” International Affairs, March 10, InterScience]
__The growing sense …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and the Karzai government. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CT strategy collapses the state—causes Taliban take over and civil war </span>**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 9</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> [Frederick, W., The Weekly Standard, October 12th, Don't GO Wobbly on Afghanistan, American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, 2010, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/101110]]</span>] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"To defeat an …</span> __Pakistan and Iran.__

===__Ghill Round 4, Neg vs. Kinkaid__=== 

=====__Bioweapons CP__===== 

__TEXT:__
The United States federal government should sign the Biological Weapons Convention, UN Resolution 1540, and International Health Regulations, and actively adhere to and promote all components of the convention. The United States federal government should substantially increase pre-commercial research and development for microbial forensics capabilities, substantially strengthen its microbial forensics capacity, and support private sector efforts to develop international standards for genomics screening. The United States federal government should enact all necessary biosafety measures of the Select Agent Program and Biosafety Improvement Act of 2008. The United States federal government should increase biosafety training for scientists and public health workers and ensure joint projects and research ventures.

Counterplan solves bioterror – prevents outbreaks and deters attacks
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gronvall 9</span></span> * a Senior Associate at the Center for Biosecurity of UPMC and an Assistant Professor of Medicine at the University of Pittsburgh member of the Council on Foreign Relations and also serves on the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) Committee on Scientific Freedom and Responsibility [ Gigi Kwik, “PREVENTING THE DEVELOPMENT AND USE OF BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS, http://www.liebertonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1089/bsp.2009.1003]

__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The U.S. should…the outbreak occurs</span>____.__

===__Ghill Octas, Neg vs. Mountainbrook QM__=== 

=====__T - Its__===== 
Interpretation – its implies ownership
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glossary of English Grammar Terms 5</span></span> (http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)

Mine, yours, his, hers, <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">its</span></span>, ours, theirs <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">are</span></span> the <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">possessive</span></span> pronouns<span class="UnderlineChar"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">used to</span> </span>substitute a noun and <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">to show possession</span> or ownership.</span>
EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)

Military means belonging to the armed forces
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary 10</span></span> (http://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/british/military_1)

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">military</span></span> adjective
relating to or <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">belonging to the armed forces</span></span>
//foreign military intervention//

PMCs aren’t US military presence
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scheimer 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J. D. Candidate, American University, Washington College of Law; B.A. Government, 2003, College of William and Mary. Michael Scheimer is a National Security Policy Analyst with a major defense contractor. “Separating Private Military Companies From Illegal Mercenaries in International Law: Proposing an International Convention for Legitimate Military and Security Support That Reflects Customary International Law” 24 Am. U. Int'l L. Rev. 609) </span>

The United States … its contractual arrangement. n49

PMCs are not US forces – they are independent and have subcontracting layers
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ridlon 8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Captain Daniel P. Ridlon (B.A., Seattle University (2003); J.D., Harvard Law School (2006)) is the Chief of Military Justice, 30th Space Wing, Vandenberg Air Force Base, California. He is a member of the Washington Bar, CONTRACTORS OR ILLEGAL COMBATANTS? THE STATUS OF ARMED CONTRACTORS IN IRAQ, 62 A.F. L. Rev. 199)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is likely … increases their independence. </span>

PMCs aren’t even considered support personnel
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ridlon 8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Captain Daniel P. Ridlon (B.A., Seattle University (2003); J.D., Harvard Law School (2006)) is the Chief of Military Justice, 30th Space Wing, Vandenberg Air Force Base, California. He is a member of the Washington Bar, CONTRACTORS OR ILLEGAL COMBATANTS? THE STATUS OF ARMED CONTRACTORS IN IRAQ, 62 A.F. L. Rev. 199)</span>

If they are …<span class="UnderlineChar"> likely not qualify.</span>

Private contractors are distinct entities from the federal government
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barbier 7</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– US District Judge (Carl, TIEN VAN COA, ET AL VERSUS GREGORY WILSON, ET AL CIVIL ACTION NO: 07-7464 SECTION: J(1) UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 87653, lexis) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As to federal …</span><span class="UnderlineChar">on for profit.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">" Id. at 740; see also Powell v. U.S. Cartridge Co., 339 U.S. 497, 70 S. Ct. 755, 94 L. Ed. 1017 (1950). </span>

=====__Reform PMCs CP__===== 

Text: The United States federal government should do the following with regard to private military contractors:<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> -</span>Transition from a cost-plus contract model to a fixed-cost model.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> <span style="font-weight: normal;">-</span>Bar contracts for mission critical roles and any roles that require arms or the handling of ammunition.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> <span style="font-weight: normal;">-</span>Create a contract management system that incentivizes accountability through clear performance metrics and standards and reduces reliance on non-competitive contracts.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> <span style="font-weight: normal;">-</span>Increase the number of officers assigned to oversight and auditing of contracts and contractor performance, and create a reporting mechanism to identify contract abuses.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> <span style="font-weight: normal;">-</span>Begin using qui tam lawsuits against contractors who violate the terms of their contract, international human rights law, United States law, and/or the law where they are deployed.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> <span style="font-weight: normal;">-</span>Consult with contractors to discuss the most effective contract terms, and implement the results of that consultation.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> <span style="font-weight: normal;">-</span>Contractually mandate that all personnel be trained in the laws of war and human rights law.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> <span style="font-weight: normal;">-</span>Engage in efforts to establish standards and norms in international public law regarding the private military industry.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> <span style="font-weight: normal;">-</span>Ensure that contractors who are hired do not have criminal histories.</span>

Reform solves resentment, terrorist armament, costs and dependency – but some outsourcing is crucial to prevent overstretch – this is their author
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Singer 10</span></span> (Peter Warren Singer is Senior Fellow and Director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institute. February 2010, “The Regulation of New Warfare”, [[http://www.thepolitic.org/articles/47/the-regulation-of-new-warfare]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the last …p</span><span class="UnderlineChar">erform these services. </span>

Overstretch kills heg
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne 9</span></span> (Christopher Layne, PhD is Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University. International Security, Volume 34, Number 1, Summer 2009 | Suo)

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">U.S. strategic retrenchment </span>…</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> by a similar process.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> On Britain’s decline, see Aaron Friedberg, Weary Titan: Britain and the Experience of Relative Decline, 1895–1905 (Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1988); Kennedy, The Rise and Fall of British Naval Mastery; C.J. Lowe and M.L. Dockrill, The Mirage of Power, Vol. 1: British Foreign Policy, 1902–1914 (London: Routledge, 1972); and Correlli Barnett, The Collapse of British Power (New York: William Morrow, 1972). </span>

=====2NC Reform CP Solvency===== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1) </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Incentivization – the counterplan creates an optimal marketplace – uses financial incentives to make companies __want__ to perform better in order to compete </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Singer 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter Warren, Senior Fellow and Director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institute, February, “The Regulation of New Warfare”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thepolitic.org/articles/47/the-regulation-of-new-warfare]]</span>) </span>

__Send Proper Market …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> we actually do. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2) </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Accountability – mechanisms like contract management and targeted lawsuits create a culture of accountability – means whistleblowers are more likely </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Singer 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter Warren, Senior Fellow and Director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institute, February, “The Regulation of New Warfare”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thepolitic.org/articles/47/the-regulation-of-new-warfare]]</span>) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rebuild the Ability …</span> __crimes in warzones__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

3) Role-limiting – the CP bars contractors from fulfilling mission-critical roles – means they can’t do critical tasks and we spend less money on them
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Singer 8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative @ Brookings (Peter, “Outsourcing the Fight,” June 5th,http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2008/0605_military_contractors_singer.aspx) </span>

__In the same … of this marketplace.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4) </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layering – the planks are mutually reinforcing – at least one will catch a violation and stop it </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Desai 5</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Devin, R. Associate Professor of Law at the Thomas Jefferson School of Law, Have Your Cake and Eat It Too: A Proposal for a Layered Approach to Regulating Private Military Companies, 39 U.S.F. L. Rev. 825 (2004-2005) <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heinonline.org/HOL/Page?collection=journals&handle=hein.journals/usflr39&id=840]]</span> p 867-870 </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">C. The Full System … international criminal courts</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
=== === 
===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ghill Quarters, Neg vs. Beacon</span>=== 

=====Urbicide DA===== 
Current imperial violence functions by obscuring the ways in which our cities are targets. We have to collapse the analytic distinction to resist
GRAHAM 6
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Volume 30.2 June 2006 255–76 International Journal of Urban and Regional Research Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The purpose of … ‘private military corporations’ (Harvey, 2003; Chatterjee, 2004; Boal //et al.// , 2005). </span>

Domestic urbicide spills over to global urbicide – the same ideology of subconscious racial fear propels both
GRAHAM 9
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 </span>**DOI:**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 10.1080/13604810903298425 </span>**URL:**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425]] Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the contemporary …Baghdad or Gaza. </span>

We have to connect our foreign policymaking to the struggle at home. Beacon disconnects these struggles – what they dismiss as a DISTRACTION is instead a CORE LINKAGE between SITES OF RESISTANCE
GRAHAM 9
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 </span>**DOI:**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 10.1080/13604810903298425 </span>**URL:**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425]] Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The power of …lock-down democratic politics (Zimmermann, 2007). </span>

Critical urban geography has to UNITE struggles – violence against urban spaces is a unified front that collapses their home and abroad distinction
GRAHAM 9
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Graham, Stephen(2009) 'Cities as Battlespace: The New Military Urbanism', City, 13: 4, 383 — 402 </span>**DOI:**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 10.1080/13604810903298425 </span>**URL:**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604810903298425]] Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography at the University of Durham. He holds a degree on Geography (Southampton, 1986), an M. Phil. In Urban Planning (Newcastle, 1989), and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Policy (Manchester, 1995). Between 1989 and 2002 he worked in planning and economic development at Sheffield City Council. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Here the latest </span>__…<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">camps</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and gulags </span>


=====Whiteness K===== 
We must contest whiteness as multiple whitenesses – they cannot be made singular, because that act fixes and reifies monolithic whiteness. only pluralizing the construction recognizing both their multiple points of intersection with identity and, more importantly, their constructed and historical nature.
Manson 4
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://edoc.ub.uni-muenchen.de/5859/1/Manson_Richard.pdf]] “White Men Write Now: Deconstructed and Reconstructed Borders of Identity in Contemporary American Literature byWhite Men” Inaugural Dissertation zur Erlangung des Doktorgrades der Philosophie an der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München Dissertation, LMU Munich </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, there is …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> system of practices</span>. </span>

Multiplicity is key in this context – recognizing its multiplicity is a precondition to undermining the historical nature of American whiteness, and exposing whitenesses tie to gender and colonial privilege as well as racial hierarchy
Manson 4
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://edoc.ub.uni-muenchen.de/5859/1/Manson_Richard.pdf]] “White Men Write Now: Deconstructed and Reconstructed Borders of Identity in Contemporary American Literature byWhite Men” Inaugural Dissertation zur Erlangung des Doktorgrades der Philosophie an der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München Dissertation, LMU Munich </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chromatic whiteness theories … quite literally, men. </span>

We can embrace their project while reject their singular rhetorical construction of whiteness. the singular and static nature of whiteness distorts the entire anti-racist project – this is a crucial starting point
Bonnet 99
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Prof. Alastair Bonnett Professor of Social Geography, university of newcastle Race, identity, and citizenship: a reader By Rodolfo D. Torres, Louis F. Mirón, Jonathan Xavier Inda </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is being … I now turn. </span>


=====Community PIC===== 

TEXT: Arjun and I endorse the performance of the 1ac as a strategy in debate that disrupts the policing of black bodies. We have to abolish the cops right here in this cityspace of debate so that it may serve as a praxis and starting point for us to fight back against the pigs in our hoods and the world.

The ideal of community creates scapegoating and exclusion based on race, sex and class. Even radical reappropriation fails in this context – it’s best to ditch the concept altogether
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Young 90</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (IRIS MARION, JUSTICE AND THE POLITICS OF DIFFERENCE 237-38 (1990). Iris Marion Young (2 January 1949 - 1 August 2006) was Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, and affiliated with the Center for Gender Studies [1] and the Human Rights program there. Her research covered contemporary political theory, feminist social theory, and normative analysis of public policy) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have argued … within the group. </span>

The concept of community connects to the worst genocides of the 20th century
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pavlich 1</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Restorative justice and civil society By Heather Strang, John Braithwaite UNIVERSITY OF ALBERTA, Professor of Law and Sociology PhD (Sociology) 1992 University of British Columbia) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the quest </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">positive, set of events. </span>

Community actively attempts to impose homogeneity. We should instead work within a frame of urban acceptance of difference – the alternative solves the aff better
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Young 90</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (IRIS MARION, JUSTICE AND THE POLITICS OF DIFFERENCE 237-38 (1990). Iris Marion Young (2 January 1949 - 1 August 2006) was Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, and affiliated with the Center for Gender Studies [1] and the Human Rights program there. Her research covered contemporary political theory, feminist social theory, and normative analysis of public policy) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Many</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> philosophers and …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> forming a communitv</span>. </span>

The critique of community captures all its benefits much better than their fixed conception. We can have collective solidarity, but only by attacking the exclusions inherent in community conceptions.

Thus, the reject alternative solves better even if we kick the counterplan
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pavlich 1</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Restorative justice and civil society By Heather Strang, John Braithwaite UNIVERSITY OF ALBERTA, Professor of Law and Sociology PhD (Sociology) 1992 University of British Columbia) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">dissociating <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">strategies … to future possibilities.</span></span>

===St. Marks Round 6, Neg vs. Juan Diego=== 
=====North Korea Conditions CP===== 

Troops can be used as a bargaining chip with North Korea – will pave the way for successful negotiations
Feffer 4 (John, contributor to Foreign … )
The vortex of Korean politics … eventually bring home its troops.

Conditioning solves a verifiable freeze – unilateral concessions fail but North Korea will say yes to this gesture of respect
Roy 10 (Denny, Senior Research Fellow … /fileadmin/stored/pdfs/apb050.pdf)
North Korean policies frequently seem … toward a rapprochement and eventual denuclearization.

The unconditional plan wrecks deterrence and causes war and proliferation
Cronin et al 94 (Richard P, Report … )
While a U.S. withdrawal based on a credible … nuclear program towards weapons production.

=====2NC Says Yes===== 
**Perception of equivalency is the only way to get North Korea on board with broader policies – our evidence is comparative between unilateral withdrawal and withdrawal based around conditions**
Michael <span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Shih</span></span> May 12 20<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>, writer for … .edu/research/cases/shih-3-09.pdf
Second, <span class="UnderlineChar">North <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Korean strategy is … </span>to make the most of it.”</span>14

**North Korea will accept the offer but will pocket the plan’s unconditional concession**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cronin et al 94</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Report Coordinator … )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> OPTION 6: </span><span class="UnderlineChar">NEGOTIATED <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">REDUCTION OF</span> THE U.S. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">… </span>, and even increasing its demands.</span>

**North Korea says yes – failures of previous talks were our fault**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Roy 10</span></span> (Denny, Senior Research Fellow … , “Parsing Pyongyang's Strategy”, February, Informaworld)
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to proponents of </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the … Korean normalisation would be negotiable</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.28</span></span>
**Even if North Korea refuses, we still solve – CP builds international support for new solutions**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Horowitz 5</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – doctoral candidate in the … )</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">It is currently unclear whether … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">not lead to a sustainable solution</span>

**We don’t need to win complete dismantlement – limited disarmament prevents a power shift in Asia while making North Korea feel secure and prevents South Korean and Japan nuclearization and Asian Prolif**
Doug <span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Bandow</span></span> 12/11/<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>, Doug Bandow is a … .org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11044
Washington should work with South … <span class="UnderlineChar">the spread of nuclear weapons.</span>
==== ==== 
=====South Korean Politics DA===== 

Lee’s econ reform is passing now – new nominees for the cabinet will help map out the new policy roadmap for Lee
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Na 9/7</span></span> Na Jeong-ju, reporter for the Korea Times, 09/07/10 “Lee may pick new PM-nominee next week” http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2010/09/116_72668.html
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">President Lee</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Myung-bak </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Gangwon Province governor.</span>

Plan is unpopular in South Korea – trades off with domestic focus on the economy
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Lee 6</span></span> (Cheoleon, Senior Research Director – The Gallup Organization, “Gallup World Poll: South Korea's Political Dilemma”, 9-22, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Withdrawing U.S. Troops … Korean nuclear issues.</span>

Lee’s capital key to reforms – failure destroys South Korean economic growth
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Young 9</span></span> (Dr. Soogil, President – National Strategy Institute and Chair – Korea National Committee for Pacific Economic Cooperation, “South Korea: A Test of Political Leadership”, 1-5, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2009/01/05/south-korea-a-test-of-political-leadership/)
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The real challenge</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ,,, this challenge in 2009.</span>

That collapses the global economy
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Ejaz 98</span></span> (Dr. Manzur, Prof Philosophy – U Punjab, Columnist For BBC, The Nation, and The News, “Pakistan Can Learn From South Korea’s Economic Woes”, 1-5, http://users.erols.com/ziqbal/jan_5.htm)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">After dragging their … the last few months.</span>

Global nuclear war
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead 09</span></span> (Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, New Republic, February 4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">If current market … </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">have to fight</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

===St. Marks Doubles, Neg vs. Ghill BU=== 
====Jungle Warfare PIC==== 

Okinawa’s JWTC is the only jungle warfare training center in the world – key to contingency training
Ryan D. <span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Libbert</span></span>, Marine Corporal, 2-22-20<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">0<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">4</span></span></span>, “Okinawa’s jungle premiere training,” Global Security, http://www.globalsecurity.org/ military/library/news/2004/02/ mil-040222-mcn01.htm
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marines serving on … this place strong."</span>

US jungle war training is key to fight drug trafficking in Colombia – solves regional instability and Latin American democracy
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lieutenant Colonel Thomas J. </span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Comodeca</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> United States Army THE NEED FOR SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES INVOLVEMENT IN THE ANDEAN REGION’S COUNTER DRUG EFFORTS April 7,20</span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">03</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> accessed July 31, 2010 http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/ GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc= GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA415480</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The US must </span>…the region today.</span>

<span style="color: black;">And, Latin American democracies are key to prevent nuclear arms races and WMD exchange</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Schulz 99</span>
<span style="color: black; margin-left: 0in;">(Donald E., Chairman of Poli Sci Department @ Cleveland University, “Security and Civil Military Relations in the New World Disorder: The Use of Armed Forces in the Americas – The United States and Latin America: A Stategic Perspective”, September, http://www.resdal.org/Archivo/dis-1.htm</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">A second major … of organized crime.</span>
====Case Frontlines==== 
=====Deterrence Turns===== 

The plan crushes US resolve and causes Asian instability
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klingner 9</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Bruce Klingner, Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation, August 26, 2009, “How to Save the U.S.-Japan Alliance,” online: <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/AsiaandthePacific/bg2308.cfm]]</span></span>
__<span style="color: black;">Despite its shortcomings, </span>____<span style="color: black;">…</span>____<span style="color: black;">sharing, and interoperability.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That causes nuclear war – but maintaining troops in Japan solves </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sheridan 9</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Greg Sheridan, Foreign editor – The Australian, Hatoyama poised for global struggle, The Australian, 9-5-09, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.theaustralian.news.com.au/story/0,25197,26027029-7583,00.html]]</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Kurt </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; color: black;">Campbell</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, now … seems to get this.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our military presence in Japan is key to deter China-Taiwan war</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bush 3/10</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard C. Bush III, 2010, Director, Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies, “Okinawa and Security in Easy Asia”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/speeches/2010/0310_japan_politics_bush.aspx]]</span>)</span>
__Taiwan also has …<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">as a tripwire.</span>__

=====AT: Diplomacy Advantage===== 

Russia accepts its role as a regional power, means the Japanese alliance isn’t necessary to solve
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zhukov 8</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Yuri, PhD in government from Harvard, Masters with Honors from Georgetown, and AB with honors in International Relations, “A Russian Sphere of Influence is Geopolitical Reality” [[http://www.nextamerica.org/node/460]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Russia’s intervention in …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> the foreseeable future. </span>

Japanese diplomacy is resilient
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye 5</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– distinguished expert on soft power and professor at Harvard (Joseph S. Nye, “Soft Power Matters in Asia,” Belfer Center, December 5, 2005, [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/1486/soft_power_matters_in_asia.html]])</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Asia's resurgence began </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> visits Yasukuni Shrine.</span>

=====AT: Kadena Advantage===== 

Kadena is useless and doesn’t solve China
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Melton and Elridge 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Col. Melton, a former marine attache at U.S. Embassy Tokyo, currently serves as the assistant chief of staff, G-5, U.S. Marine Corps Bases, Japan. Eldridge, Ph.D., a former tenured associate professor of U.S.-Japan relations and Okinawan history at Osaka University, serves in the same office as Melton. Mar. 4, 2010, “U.S. marine presence in Okinawa Pref. essential”, http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/columns/commentary/20100304dy01.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The opinion piece … trust in this region. </span>

Loss of airpower doesn’t cause conflict – threats aren’t as bad as during Cold War
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Preble 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christopher A, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, PhD in History from Temple, August 3, “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?”, [[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/]], AV)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But </span><span class="UnderlineChar">what is …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> their respective regions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

No South China Sea conflict
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bitzinger 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard A. Bitzinger, Senior Fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies and Barry Desker, Dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies and Director of the Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, 2009. Survival vol. 50 no. 6, “Why East Asian War is Unlikely,” p. Proquest)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">Nowhere</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, perhaps, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">is </span>…</span></span> and Southeast Asia.
=====AT: Alliance Advantage===== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Relations are high now – cooperation on climate, terrorism and North Korea</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Takashi </span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Yokoda</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Newsweek,1/22/</span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.newsweek.com/2010/01/21/a-pacific-squall.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the run-up …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> about a crisis.</span></span>

The alliance won’t collapse – their ev exaggerates
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogin 9</span></span> (Josh Rogin, reports on national security and foreign policy for Foreign Policy magazine, December 31, 2009, “Are U.S.-Japan relations really in crisis?”, http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/12/31/are_us_japan_relations_really_in_crisis | Suo)
<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The U.S.- Japan …</span></span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">down the alliance."</span> </span>

JASA not key to East Asia – regional actors fill in
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Leddy 10</span></span> (Carolyn M. Leddy, Council on Foreign Relations-Hitachi Ltd. international affairs fellow at the National Institute for Defense Studies, May 11, 2010, “Moving Forward From Futenma”, http://www.cfr.org/publication/22085/moving_forward_from_futenma.html | Suo)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">for the …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">remain that way.</span>

Relations resilient despite Futenma – security concerns and empirics prove
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris 10</span></span> (Tobias Harris, Japanese politics specialist who worked for a DPJ member of the upper house of the Diet 2006-2007. He is now a Ph.D. student in political science at MIT, May 23, 2010, “Hatoyama accommodates the US on Futenma”, http://www.observingjapan.com/2010/05/hatoyama-accommodates-us-on-futenma.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What of the …</span>US and its allies.

Japan has no political will to continue the Futenma dispute
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Harris 9</span></span> (Tobias Harris, Japanese politics specialist who worked for a DPJ member of the upper house of the Diet 2006-2007. He is now a Ph.D. student in political science at MIT, December 11, 2009, “Preparing to retreat?”, http://www.observingjapan.com/2009/12/preparing-to-retreat.html | Suo)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, as noted … into concrete policy.</span>
=== === 
===Glenbrooks Round 3, Neg vs. Westminster MW</span>===
====India DA – 1NC====
**Indian relations high – cooperation and Obama visit**
**Blake 1/25** (Robert O, Assistant Secretary, Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs, 2011, “India: The Rise of an Economic Power”, http://www.state.gov/p/sca/rls/rmks/rmks/155318.htm)

President Obama and Secretary Clinton came into office . . . more closely to advance global security and prosperity.

**Plan decks Indian relations**
**Ure 10** (Laurie, 11/5, “Afghanistan withdrawal could imperil US-India relations, McCain warns”,  http://www.cnn.com/2010/POLITICS/11/05/india.relations/, AV)

If the United States leaves Afghanistan prematurely, . . . both a declining power and an unreliable partner. 

US-India relations solve everything, including climate change, disease and the case
**Mathew 9** (Thomas, Deputy Director General at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses & Ph.D. on US Foreign Policy from JNU, New Delhi from 2007-10, “Saving India-U.S. Partnership”, Institute for Defence Studies & Analysis, July 19, http://www.idsa.in/strategiccomments/SavingIndiaUSPartnership_TMathew_190709)

Both nations have suffered at the hands of . . . two nations that have so much in common. 

**Disease causes extinction**
**Yu 9** (Victoria, Spring, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate”, http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate)

A pandemic will kill off all humans. . . . into a human-viable strain (10).

=====Uniqueness Wall=====
**Relations high – cooperation and common goals in Afghanistan**
**Sify 10** (11/4, “India, U.S in constant touch over Afghanistan: Nirupama Rao”, http://sify.com/news/india-u-s-in-constant-touch-over-afghanistan-nirupama-rao-news-national-kleuEdifagj.html, AV)

Foreign Secretary Nirupama Rao said on Thursday that . . . united international commitment to Afghan-led initiatives. 

**Relations high – but pullout from Afghanistan would decimate them – it’s the greatest internal link**
**Blake 10** (Robert, The Times of India, “India comfortable with US policy on Afghanistan: Robert Blake”, 6/10, http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/India-comfortable-with-US-policy-on-Afghanistan-Robert-Blake/articleshow/6027855.cms)

WASHINGTON: India, which initially had a . . . US Strategic Dialogue last week," Blake said. 

=====Link Wall=====
**The aff reverses progress on our relationship with India – Afghanistan is key**
**Karl 10** – Asia Strategy Initiative (8/31/10, David, “US-India relations: Problems posed by Afghanistan and Iran,” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/08/31/us-india-relations-problems-posed-by-afghanistan-and-iran/)

After much criticism for appearing to neglect New . . . have serious consequences for US-India relations.

**Plan’s precipitous withdrawal causes India to turn to Iran, Russia and China**
**Kaplan 10** (Robert D, senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a correspondent for The Atlantic, 11/11, “Obama Takes Asia by Sea”, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/12/opinion/12kaplan.html?_r=1, AV)

Indeed, it is India’s emergence as a . . . balance the military and economic rise of China. 

**India would freak out at the plan – they rely on US presence in the region**
**Yardley 10** (Jim, New York Times, 11/6, “America and India: The Almost-Special Relationship”, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/07/weekinreview/07yardley.html?src=twrhp, AV)

There is less talk of the chances of . . . United States as a stabilizing influence in Asia.” 

=====AT: Not Full Withdrawal=====
**Any reduction is perceived as the beginning of a withdrawal strategy**
**Riedel and O’Hanlon 9** – *Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Saban Center for Middle East Policy AND ** Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy at Brookings (Bruce and Michael, USA Today, 9/24, “Why We Can't Go Small In Afghanistan,” http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0924_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx)

Third, we would likely lose our allies . . . might try to beat us to the exit.

=====AT: Afghanistan Not Key=====
**Afghanistan is the key issue**
**D’Souza 10** (Dr Shanthie Mariet, a visiting research fellow, Institute of South Asian Studies, Singapore, and associate fellow at the Institute for Defence Studies & Analyses, 11/4, “Why Afghanistan could dominate talks with Obama”, http://news.rediff.com/column/2010/nov/03/obama-visit-why-afghanistan-could-dominate-india-us-talks.htm, AV)

More importantly, this visit coincides with a . . . Hamid Karzai [ Images ] government's peace processes. 

====Advantage CP==== 
TEXT: The United States federal government should 
-reallocate its current presence in Afghanistan to selected noncontiguous model districts within the north of Afghanistan and invest in economic and political development in said districts.
-renew authorization for the Afghanistan War to reflect a focus on solving global security interests and stability 
-update and renew its resolutions previously put forth to the United Nations Security Council guiding US and NATO presence in Afghanistan to reflect these focuses 
-reallocate a portion of its defense budget from defense weaponry to sustainable security initiatives
-renounce the withdrawal deadline in Afghanistan and fully support the US counterinsurgency strategy
-push for a global climate treaty at the Cancun climate talks and devote diplomatic resources towards that goal as well as the goal of building multilateral institutions to prevent proliferation


Counterplan solves – redistribution of troops stops the Taliban and spills over to stabilize the country.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dorronsoro 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gilles, visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. His research focuses on security and political development in Afghanistan, particularly the role of the International Security Assistance Force, the necessary steps for a viable government in Kabul, and the conditions necessary for withdrawal scenarios. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris, and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes. He also served as the scientific coordinator at the French Institute of Anatolian Studies in Istanbul, Turkey. “Fixing a Failed Strategy in Afghanistan”, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, [[http://carnegieendowment.org/files/dorronsoro_fixing_failed_strategy2.pdf]])</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">new strategy</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the insurgency itself</span>.</span>

And, counterinsurgency bad offense doesn’t apply – the counterplan overhauls our current strategy
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khan 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Major Mehar Omar Khan, Pakistan Army, is currently a student at the US Army Command and General Staff College at Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas. He has served as a peacekeeper in Sierra Leone, a Brigade GSO-III, an instructor at the Pakistan Military Academy in Kakul, and as Chief of Staff (Brigade Major) of an infantry brigade. He has also completed the Command and Staff Course at Pakistan’s Command and Staff College in Quetta. 2009, “Don’t Try to Arrest the Sea: An Alternative Approach for Afghanistan,” http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/2009/10/an-alternative-approach-for-af/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the last … addresses this dilemma. </span>

CP builds public support for the war, solves heg
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thistlethwaite and Katulis 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rev. Susan Brooks Thistlethwaite is a Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress. Brian Katulis is a Senior Fellow at American Progress, where his work focuses on U.S. national security policy in the Middle East and South Asia. Katulis has served as a consultant to numerous U.S. government agencies, private corporations, and nongovernmental organizations on projects in more than two dozen countries, 11/19, “How to Make the Afghanistan War a “Just War” [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/11/just_war.html]], JC)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Force is reasonable …Declaration of Human Rights.</span>

Solves warming
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Atkins 9/22</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andy, executive director of leading environmental charity Friends of the Earth, was previously policy and campaigns director at relief and development agency Tearfund, 2010, “Cancún talks may not reach a deal but there are still reasons for optimism”, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2010/sep/22/climate-deal-resistance]], AV)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">When it comes to … along with manufacturing</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
=== === 
===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Blake Round 3, Neg vs. Greenhill</span>=== 
==== ==== 
====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1NC Defense Advantage</span>==== 

1) No impact – humans and the environment are adaptable
Doremus 2K (Holly, Professor of Law at UC Davis Washington & Lee Law Review, Winter 57 Wash & Lee L. Rev. 11, lexis) 
Reluctant to concede ...precipitating a collapse

2) No impact – Innovation is resilient 
Klapper 8 (Bradley S, AP writer, “U.S. maintains edge in competitiveness; Singapore, Hong Kong just behind in Swiss study”, The Associated Press, 5/15, Lexis)
The United States ...be shaken up.
3) Perception of missile defense freaks out China – independently causes Korean conflict
Roberts 3 (Brad, Fellow at the Institute for Defense Analyses., September, “China and Ballistic Missile Defense: 1955 to 2002 and Beyond”, [[http://www.fas.org/nuke/guide/china/doctrine/bmd.pdf]], THE)
China also intensified ...[a] regional arrangement.”
Extinction
Doyle 9 (Clare, Committee for a Workers' International, Nuclear sabre-rattling, [[http://socialistworld.net/eng/2009/06/0701.html]])
In the past...of the planet.
4) China perceives cooperation as attempted space domination – they’ll respond by modernizing their space weapons arsenal
Hagt 7 (Eric, director of the China Program at the World Security Institute, "China's ASAT Test: Strategic Response,", in China Security, Winter, pp. 31-51)
China’s testing of ...send that message. 
That leads to a US-China space race – it’ll escalate to global nuclear war
Carroll 3 (James, former Shorenstein Fellow at the Kennedy School of Gov't at Harvard U, Distinguished Scholar-in-Residence at Suffolk U, "Bush's battle to dominate in space," October 28, Boston Globe, [[http://www.mail-archive.com/ctrl@listserv.aol.com/msg108822.html]])
Two weeks ago ...open-ended nuclear escalation.

5) Japan’s policy of not exporting arms will be shattered by missile defense – it will be sent to Europe
Japan Today 10 (7/25, “Japan set to approve exporting new SM3 interceptors”, [[http://www.japantoday.com/category/politics/view/japan-set-to-approve-exporting-new-sm3-interceptors]])
The Japanese government ...should be taken. 

That causes Russia to withdraw from the INF creating global nuclear conflicts, terrorism, and collapse of the NPT 
Arbatov 7 (Corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences and Member of the Editorial Board of Russia ...of the world.

6) Missile defense destroys its constitution by violating Article 9
Wooksik 7 (Cheong, 12/24, “Missile Defense Acts as a Trojan Horse”, http://english.ohmynews.com/articleview/article_view.asp?at_code=432927, AV)
Missile Defense Acts ...the "China Threat."

Article 9 is the lynchpin of world peace – any attempt at revision directly causes global war
The Global Article 9 (Campaign, project of the United Nations Global Partnership for the Prevention of Armed Conflict, Japan-based international NGO Peace Boat, Japan Lawyers' International Solidarity Association and others, Copyright 2008, “Article 9 as a Mechanism of Peace”, [[@http://www.article-9.org/en/what/details2.html]])
Following the end ....realizing this vision.

===NATO DA, Blake Round 5 vs. GBS===

====1NC Shell====
A. NATO cohesion is high now – Afghanistan is key
Joyner 10/29 [James Joyner is managing editor of the Atlantic Council, Afghanistan Process Will Take Years, 2010, http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/afghanistan-process-will-take-years]

He repeatedly emphasized ...to the mission.

B. The plan shatters the NATO alliance
Fox 10 (Liam, MP and Secretary of State for Defense – United Kingdom, “Standing Shoulder to Shoulder with the U.S.”, Real Clear World, 7-9, http://www.realclearworld.com/printpage/?url=http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/ 2010/07/09/standing_shoulder_to_shoulder_with_the_us_99060.html)

So in Afghanistan ...life and limb.

C. That causes conflicts to erupt across the globe
Mitchell 10 (A. Wess, President – Center for European Policy Analysis, and Robert Kron, Research Associate – CEPA, “NATO Must Reassure Nervous Allies”, RealClearWorld, 3-1, http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/ 2010/03/01/nato_must_reassure_nervous_allies_98828.html?utm_source=emailalerts&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Russia)

Second, insecure allies...rising Russian threat.

====Uniqueness Wall====
**b) Cohesion high now – summit was successful**
**Portugal News 11/27** (2010, “NATO alliance “revitalised” for 21st century – President Obama”, http://www.theportugalnews.com/cgi-bin/article.pl?id=1089-12)

NATO’s Lisbon summit has served to reform the . . . issues that arise”, Mr. Obama said.

**c) The alliance is strong now – Afghanistan is the only thing that can bring the alliance tumbling **
The **Economist 11/11**/10 [“Fewer dragons, more snakes NATO is about to adopt a new strategic concept. Can it keep pace with the way the world is changing?”, http://www.economist.com/node/17460712?story_id=17460712&fsrc=rss] 

Once the new strategic concept is adopted, . . . of wear and tear, but it endures. 

====Link Wall====
**Shifting to counter terrorism fractures NATO**
**Lightfoot 9** (Jeffrey, Assistant Director of the International Security Program – Atlantic Council, “10 Questions on Afghanistan”, Atlantic Council Report, 10-13, http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/10-questions-afghanistan)

6. How will the administration’s decision affect . . . excuse to hasten their withdrawal from the mission. 

**NATO strong now – the aff kills the credibility of the alliance **
**Geoana 11/2**/10 [Mircea Dan Geoană “Rejecting “The End of the West”: A New Narrative for Transatlantic Relations”, http://www.gmfus.org/halifax/2010/doc/Geoana_EndoftheWest_Oct10.pdf] 

NATO has a multiplicity of issues to contend . . . be an indispensable component of Europe’s global ambitions.

**The smallest risk of a link outweighs – the plan means Obama looks weak, link turns hegemony **
**Brzezinski 11/15**/10 [Ian J,  a former deputy assistant secretary of defense for European and NATO policy, is a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council and leads the Brzezinski Group, a consulting firm.” Obama's Five Challenges at Lisbon”, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/16/opinion/16iht-edBrzezinski.html)

First, President Obama must demonstrate unambiguous determination . . . term commitment to Afghan political and economic development. 

====AT: NATO Useless====

**Only commitments to Central Europe matter – it’s the barometer for NATO credibility and key access point for global conflict**
**Mitchell 10** (A. Wess, President – Center for European Policy Analysis, and Robert Kron, Research Associate – CEPA, “Counting the Costs of Insecurity in North Central Europe”, Central Europe Digest, 108, 2-1, http://www.cepa.org/ced/view.aspx?record_id=219)

Unaddressed anxiety among exposed NATO member states of . . . the gradual reactivation of old regional security dilemmas.

**Even without collapse, declining credibility triggers the impact**
**Drew 96** (S. Nelson, Colonel – United States Air Force, NATO and the Changing World Order, p. 7)

If NATO is no longer seen to be . . . test case we face in Bosnia comes in.

====NATO Solves War/Crisis Escalation====
**NATO prevent crisis escalation – solves the aff**
Duffield 95 (John S, Assistance Professor . . . Cold War, Political Science Quarterly, JSTOR)

Although so far unable to put an end . . . NATO response may inhibit other countries from meddling.

====NATO Solves Multilateralism====
**DA solves their multilat advantage**
Robertson 4 (George, 10th Secretary General . . . Daniel S. Hamilton, p. 36)

Today, NATO is demonstrating that it has . . . a process that will, and must continue.

===MBA Round 3, Neg vs. Meadows===

====Bleiker K====
**The way the affirmative constructs North Korea as a dangerous threat to security ignores the complex relationships involved and furthers security**
Bleiker 3 (Roland, Professor of International Relations at the University of Queensland, “A Rogue Is A Rogue Is A Rogue: US Foreign Policy And The Korean Nuclear Crisis,” International Affairs, Volume 79, Issue 4, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Elite, p. 736-737)

This article has examined the underlying patterns that . . . attempts to address the dilemmas of Korean security. 

====OPCON CP====
**TEXT: The United States federal government should transfer Operational Control of troops on the Korean peninsula to the South Korean military.**

**OPCON transfer solves negative affects of US military presence –  enhances ROK-US relationship, regional security, and strategic balance**
**Pyun 7** (Colonel Jae Pill Pyun, The Republic of Korea Army Colonel, “Transfer of Wartime Republic of Korea Command Authority” March, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA468951)

ROK Military Policies The ROK policy toward the . . . of both nations to achieve their strategic objectives.

**The transfer will be successful – deters North Korea and ensures any war would not escalate.**
**Rowland 8** (Ashley, writer for Stars and Stripes, Citing USFK Commander General B.B. Bell, 4/5, “Bell: OPCON transfer is safe”, http://www.stripes.com/news/bell-opcon-transfer-is-safe-1.77322)

SEOUL — U.S. Forces Korea . . . the fighting on our terms,” Bell said.

====Deterrence DA====
**US reaffirmed deterrence after recent attack – plan reverses that.**
**Gearan 11/24 **(Anne, AP, “Obama pledges US to defend its ally South Korea”, http://www.buffalonews.com/wire-feeds/24-hour-national-news/article263351.ece)

WASHINGTON (AP) - President Barack Obama . . . the South's government, a Pentagon spokesman said.
****
**Withdrawal turns case and causes nuclear war – causes miscalc, arms races, allied prolif, and war and other factors won’t check escalation. **
**Richardson 6** [Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]
	
Rumors of a substantial drawdown or complete withdrawal . . . regional stability, even in a reunified Korea.

**Outweighs the aff - Asia is the most likely scenario for nuclear war – stepped up US presence is needed**
**Landay 2K** (Jonathan Landay, Knight-Ridder National Security and Intelligence senior correspondent, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, "Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts," Lexis)
 
The 3,700-mile arc that . . . into Asia and (away) from Europe." 

**This also risk unchecked arms racing and prolif**
**Wortzel 2k**- Director of the Asian Studies Center at the Heritage Foundation (8/10/00, “US forces remain critical to Northeast Asian security” pg online @ lexisnexis)

WASHINGTON - There has …. disappear as well.

**Escalates to global nuclear war**
**Cirincione 2K** – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JSTOR)

The blocks would fall quickest and hardest . . . use of a nuclear weapon since 1945.

====Korean War Frontline====
**1) War won’t happen – their evidence is media exaggeration – empirics prove neither side will escalate.**
**Breen 12/16** (Michael, an author, former foreign correspondent of the Korean Times and the chairman of Insight Communications, a public relations consulting company, 2010, “Another Korean War?”, http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2010/12/137_78140.html)

For the first time in a long time. . . we may only expect more of the same. 
****
**2) The US will inevitably get drawn in – alliance and other troops in the region**
**Kim 6** (Director of Asian Studies at the U.S. Army War College. Nautilus Institute "Pan-Korean Nationalism, Anti-Great Power-ism and U.S.-South Korean Relations”)

The current U.S. national security . . . firmer basis for their economic and strategic relationship.
****
**3) Impact inevitable – if small scale conflict causes extinction it doesn’t matter whether the US is present or not.**
****
**4) North Korea won’t denuclearize even in the best of situations **
**Wit 10** (Joel Wit, visiting fellow at the U.S.-Korea Institute at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University, senior research fellow at the Weatherhead East Asia Institute at Columbia, and former State Department official who worked on U.S. policy towards North Korea from 1993 to 2002, February 2010.)

On the other hand, Pyongyang’s actions also . . . succeeding in the short-run are bleak.
****
**5) No impact - North Korea’s nuclear capability is small **
**Layton 10** (Julia, B.A. in English literature from Duke University and a M.F.A. in creative writing from the University of Miami, 7/18, “Is North Korea equipped to attack the United States?”, http://science.howstuffworks.com/north-korea-threat.htm)

On October 11, 2006, the newly . . . of the question at this point in time. 
****
**6) Bioweapons do not cause extinction**
**O’Neill 4** (Brendan, citing Rapoport, 8/19/2004  “Weapons of Minimum Destruction” http://www.spiked-online.com/Articles/0000000CA694.htm)

David C Rapoport, professor of political science . . . . The Tigers have not used WMD since.
****
**7) They can’t solve – they need a nuclear weapon free zone which is impossible**
**Hayes & Hamel-Green 1AC Author 10** (Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)

We note at the outset that the logic . . . obstacles can be worn down and eventually overcome.

**South Korea won’t initiate – economy and approval ratings.**
**Lee 12/23** (Peter, Writer on East and South Asian affairs and their intersection with US foreign policy, “The most dangerous man in Korea”, http://atimes.com/atimes/Korea/LL23Dg02.html)

The Yeonpyeong shelling, even more than the . . . War III will begin, but hedged politely.

**China would never initiate a US-Sino conflict – posture of minimal deterrence **
**Brzezinski 5** (Zbigniew national security affairs advisor to the Carter administration – February, “Make Money, Not War,” Foreign Policy, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=2740)

There will be inevitable frictions as China’s regional . . . , and the Chinese economy would be paralyzed.    

**China relations resilient – Korea isn’t even a key issue and fluctuations won’t cause collapse.**
**Zhang 10** (Tiejun, Associate Professor at School of International and Public Affairs, Jiaotong University, Shanghai and Adjunct Professor at American Council on International Education Exchanges Shanghai Study Center, Shanghai US-China Relations. A Mature Marriage, More or Less, April, “US-China Relations. A Mature Marriage, More or Less”, http://www.ispionline.it/it/documents/PB_182_2010.pdf)

As was shown above, US-China . . . issues on the bilateral US-Chinese agenda.

====Japan-China Relations Frontline====
1) Asian cooperation high now—solves every internal link
Xinhua 10 (Wen pushes for bilateral, regional cooperation in South Korea tour, 30 May 2010, http://english.peopledaily.com.cn/90001/90776/90883/7004712.html)

Visiting Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao focused his efforts . . . Six-Party talks," the document said. 

2) US troop presence is key to Asia relations
Cha 3 (Victor, associate professor of government and D. S. Song-Korea Foundation Endowed Chair at the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, “Focus on the Future, Not the North,” Washington Quarterly 26:1)

Second, the core countries have strong reasons . . . however, is much more difficult to abrogate.

3) Presence in Japan makes this advantage dumb – Japan will never engage as long as they have US backing with our security guarantee

4) No East Asian war – informal processes maintain peace
Weissmann 9 --- senior fellow at the Swedish School of Advanced Asia Pacific Studies (Mikael Weissmann, “Understanding the East Asian Peace: Some Findings on the Role of Informal Processes,” Nordic Asia Research Community, November 2, 2009, http://barha.asiaportal.info/blogs/in-focus/2009/november/understanding-east-asian-peace-some-findings-role-informal-processes-mi) 

The findings concerning China’s role in keeping peace . . . for moving East Asia towards a stable peace. 

===Japanese Politics DA – MBA Round 5===
====Consumption Tax Bad 1NC====
Kan’s pushing the consumption tax, but it won’t pass – low public support and strong opposition**
Nakamichi 1/4 (Takashi, Wall Street Journal, 2011, “Japan's Prime Minister Urges Talks on Raising Tax”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703314504576060941358604866.html)

TOKYO—Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan said . . . government raised the rate to the current 5%. 

Plan increases Kan’s popularity, which is key to passing consumption tax
Alabaster 10 Staff writer AP (Jay, 7/12/10, “Japan braces for gridlock after ruling party’s defeat”, http://arabnews.com/world/article83025.ece)

While many voters say a tax hike may . . . distanced themselves from the ruling Democrats on Monday. 

Consumption tax passage destroys the Japanese economy
Forexyard 10(Tetsushi, Kaori Kaneko, 7/7, "Q+A-Japan sales tax hike would be a blow for fragile economy ", http://www.forexyard.com/en/news/QA-Japan-sales-tax-hike-would-be-a-blow-for-fragile-economy-2010-07-08T022043Z)

IS KAN'S OPTIMISM SHARED BY ANALYSTS? Not . . . was accompanied by changes to other tax rates. 

Japanese economy is key to the global economy and to check Chinese nuclear conflict
The Guardian 2(“Defenseless Japan Awaits Typhoon,” Lexis)

Even so, the west cannot afford to . . . with its bigger (and nuclear) neighbour.

Nuclear war
Walter Russell Mead, Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 1/22/9, The New Republic, http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/news/2169866/posts

None of which means that we can just . . . track, we may still have to fight. 

===Emory Doubles, Neg vs. GBN HB===
====NATO CP====
TEXT: The United States federal government should, per the deadline outlined at the NATO Lisbon Summit, commit to withdraw from Afghanistan by 2014, at which point it will declare its intent to transition to a counter-terrorism force posture. In the intervening three years, the United States federal government should not publicly withdraw its support for a centralized government in Afghanistan.

Sticking to the deadline is key to preserve political capital
Long 10 (Austin Long, assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, "Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan," presented this paper at FPRI in December 2009 as part of The Hertog Program on Grand Strategy, which is jointly sponsored by Temple University’s Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy and FPRI, in Orbis, Spring, http://spi.typepad.com/files/long---orbis---spring-2010.pdf)
	
This is a high-end estimate and . . . of al Qaeda presence continues in the future.

Wrecks credibility
Kissinger 9 (Henry Kissinger, American political scientist, diplomat, and recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize, served as National Security Advisor and later concurrently as Secretary of State in the administrations of Presidents Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford, “More troops is a start. But to win in Afghanistan we’ll need help from its powerful neighbors,” in Newsweek, October 12, Lexis)

The demand for an exit strategy is, . . . to reach such a conclusion on present evidence.

Cred loss causes war and turns the case
Carafano 10 (James Carafano, Senior Research Fellow for National Security at the Heritage Foundation & Director of the Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, “Obama must win fast in Afghanistan or risk new wars across the globe,” January 2, http://gazettextra.com/news/2010/jan/02/con-obama-must-win-fast-afghanistan-or-risk-new-wa/)

Not much chance Obama will go that route. . . of failure in Afghanistan would be incalculably high.

====AT: Perm Do Both====
Links to politics – sequencing matters – perm causes gridlock
Riley 94 (Don T., Lieutenant Colonel – United States Army, “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4-18, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDocLocation=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)

In the democratic government of the United States. . . military strategy in consonance with national military objectives. 

====AT: Perm do CP====
Should means immediate
Summers 94(Justice – Oklahoma Supreme Court, "Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant," Appeal from the District Court, OK 123, 885 P.2d 1353, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn14)

4 The legal question to be resolved by . . . 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882). 

====AT: Theory====
Education – Debating about specific exit strategies is important, outweighs their whines in fairness
Cohen 10 (Michael A. Cohen , former Senior Research Fellow at the New America Foundation, B.A. in International Relations from American University and M.A. in International Relations from Columbia University, served in the Department of State as chief speechwriter for U.S. Representative to the United Nations Bill Richardson and Undersecretary of State Stuart Eizenstat, currently serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, “Hard Is Not Hopeless: Affecting Outcomes in Afghanistan,” Democracy Arsenal —an international relations blog published by the Center for American Progress and the Century Foundation's Security and Peace Initiative, July 30, http://progressiverealist.org/blogpost/hard-not-hopeless-affecting-outcomes-afghanistan)

Second, it oddly disregards the shifting national . . . state in as stable a place as possible. 

====AT: Deadline = 2011====
CT flip-flops NATO
FNF 10 ("Obama's 2014 deadline, Taliban rejects," November 21, http://www.facenfacts.com/NewsDetails/1429/obamas-2014-deadline-taliban-rejects.htm)

Lisbon/Kabul (AP) President Barack . . . full transition targeted for the end of 2014. 

====AT: Links to Ptix/Resolve====
CP doesn’t link to politics or resolve
Washington Post 10 (Karen DeYoung, Washington Post Staff Writer, "U.S., NATO to announce 'transition' strategy in Afghanistan war," November 14, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/11/13/AR2010111303746_pf.html)

The Obama administration and its NATO allies will . . . areas or tasks where they are still needed.

===Emory Quarters, Neg vs. GHill BS===
====Japan Politics (TPP) 1NC====
Kan is pushing the Trans-Pacific trade agreement now, but it won’t pass due to low popularity
Koh 1/1 (Yoree, Wall Street Journal, 2011, “Kan Vows to Push Free-Trade Deal”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703859204576054660568747354.html)

TOKYO—Japan's embattled prime minister vowed to . . . early November sparked broadsides from Japanese farming groups.

The plan boosts his public approval rating
CSM 10 (10/5, “China-Japan spat drives plunge in support for Japan's Kan”, http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-Pacific/2010/1005/China-Japan-spat-drives-plunge-in-support-for-Japan-s-Kan)

But the show of postprandial statesmanship falls well . . . not, they won’t forget in a hurry.”

That allows Kan to strong arm the opposition into supporting TPP
Harris 10 (Tobias, Kan starts anew, 9/23, http://asiasecurity.macfound.org/blog/entry/111kan_starts_anew/)

But while Ozawa may be less of a . . . has brought low every prime minister since Koizumi.

That destroys Japanese ag, economic growth and biodiversity
JA-Zenchu 10 (The Peak of Japan Farmers Organization of Agricultural Cooperatives, November, translated from Japanese: http://www.zenchu-ja.or.jp/food/pdf/1289547396.pdf using Google Translate)

‘Our country’s agriculture will be dramatically reduced . . . the biodiversity of plants, fish and insects’.

**Biodiversity loss causes extinction**
Brown 97 (Jacqueline Lesley, Assistant Attorney General, Ohio Attorney General's Office, Transportation Section, 12 J. Envtl. L. & Litig. 151, 1997, Lexis)

Our lack of knowledge regarding the number of . . . spiral of extinction that could eventually swallow them. 

====2NC Overview====
A. Biodiversity comes before all their impacts
Wilson 92 (Edward O. Wilson, Pellegrino University Research Professor, Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University, 1992, The Diversity of Life, Quoted at http://www.orangutan.com/orangutans_rainforest.html)

"The worst thing that can happen during . . . descendants are least likely to forgive us for."

B. Speed—quick decline overwhelms resilience
Suurküla 6 – Chairman of Physicians and Scientists (Jaan, M.D., for Responsible Application of Science and Technology (PSRAST), “World-wide cooperation required to prevent global crisis; Part one— the problem”, Physicians and Scientists for Responsible Application of Science and Technology, 6/24, http://www.globalissues.org/article/171/loss-of-biodiversity-and-extinctions)

The world environmental situation is likely to be . . . important cause was found to be climate change.

C. BioD collapse makes war inevitable
Buckley 4 Independent Public Policy Professional [Adele Buckley, “Failure of Multinational Corporations to Share the Responsibility for Global Security,” 54th PUGWASH CONFERENCE, 4-9, http://www.pugwashgroup.ca/events/documents/2004/2004.11.04-Buckley.Seoul_paper.htm]

Roy Woodbridge, in his new book[. . . control is without doubt an overarching global priority.

====2NC Link Wall====
US withdrawal helps Kan look assertive – boosts his popularity
WSJ 10
Japan's Precarious Budget Politics, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703465504575528690978314242.html

Prime Minister Naoto Kan, having defeated rival . . . abandon him just as it abandoned his predecessors.

Foreign policy victory givens Kan PC to deal with the opposition – key to the agenda
Harris 10
Tobias, What Kan lost in Japan’s dispute . . .  

That being said, the dispute with China . . . the opposition parties to cooperate with the government.

====2NC Uniqueness====
Won’t pass – ag lobby and public opposition
Takahara 1/1 (Kanako, Staff Writer, Japan Times, “Even tougher year may lie ahead for Kan”, 2011, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20110101f2.html)

In addition, the prime minister is expected . . . will deal the agricultural industry a staggering blow.

====Consumption Tax First====
Consumption tax won’t pass so it doesn’t matt
Nakamichi 1/4(Takashi, Wall Street Journal, 2011, “Japan's Prime Minister Urges Talks on Raising Tax”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703314504576060941358604866.html)

TOKYO—Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan said . . . government raised the rate to the current 5%. 

===Harvard RR, Russia DA vs. Gulliver AT===
====1NC====
**Relations are high because of CN raids – coop is key to relations.**
**AP 10/29** (Associated Press writers Kathy Gannon in Kabul, Michael J. Sniffen in Washington and David Nowak and Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow contributed to this story., 2010, “US and Russian forces team up for Afghan drug bust”, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5j_9TtVuprZ4aPkqZnQgkwj85-4gQ?docId=d6fb63640994477b86a61f506f891026)

KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) — Russian . . . relations are finally being backed by real action.

**CN is the litmus test for US Russian relations – cooperation solves the case – ensures containment of Afghan narcotics**
**Nopens 10** (Patrick F.P., Research Associate at UK Defence Forum, Senior Associate Fellow at EGMONT Royal Institute for International Relations, Brussels, September, “Countering Afghan narcotics: a litmus test for effective NATO and Russia cooperation?”, EGMONT Royal Institute for International Relations, http://www.egmontinstitute.be/papers/10/sec-gov/SPB-14-Nopens-countering-afghan-narcotics.pdf)

Afghanistan is the major producer of the world’s . . . further effective cooperation in the NRC on Afghanistan.

**Sustained US-Russian relations solve every impact, war, ensure US Leadership and solve Afghan stability**
**Nixon Center 3** (“Advancing American Interests and the U.S.-Russian Relationship Interim Report” The Commission on America’s National Interests and Russia.  The Nixon Center.  September 2003.  http://www.nixoncenter.org/publicants/monographs/FR.htm)

The proper starting point in thinking about American . . . Moscow as a potential source of political support.

===Harvard RR, Review CP vs. Westminster AT===
====1NC====
**TEXT: The United States federal government should recommend a substantial reduction in its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan by 2012 in the 2011 Spring Afghanistan policy review. **

**The 2011 spring review recommendation solves**
**Haass 12/20** (Richard N, former Lecturer in Public Policy at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, and a research associate at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, former Director of Policy Planning for the United States Department of State and a close advisor to Secretary of State Colin Powell, candidate for the position of ambassador and he has been U.S. Coordinator for the Future of Afghanistan, former United States Special Envoy for Northern Ireland to help the peace process in Northern Ireland, for which he received the State Department's Distinguished Service Award, 2010, “Let's Un-Surge in Afghanistan”, http://www.cfr.org/publication/23669/lets_unsurge_in_afghanistan.html)

So what should U.S. policy . . . policy of counterterrorism rather than state-building.

**The plan’s immediate strategic shift is perceived as a total abandonment that wrecks cred**
**Kissinger 9** (Henry Kissinger, American political scientist, diplomat, and recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize, served as National Security Advisor and later concurrently as Secretary of State in the administrations of Presidents Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford, “More troops is a start. But to win in Afghanistan we’ll need help from its powerful neighbors”, Newsweek, October 12, Lexis)

The demand for an exit strategy is, . . . to reach such a conclusion on present evidence.

Cred loss causes war and turns the case
**Carafano 10** (James Carafano, Senior Research Fellow for National Security at the Heritage Foundation & Director of the Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, “Obama must win fast in Afghanistan or risk new wars across the globe,” January 2, http://gazettextra.com/news/2010/jan/02/con-obama-must-win-fast-afghanistan-or-risk-new-wa/)

Not much chance Obama will go that route. . . of failure in Afghanistan would be incalculably high.

====Ptix Differential====
**Plan causes backlash – recommendation process is key to generate political support**
**Hooker 4** (Ph.D. from the Univ. of Virginia in IR, member of the CFR, served in the Office of the CJCS (Richard D.  Jr., Winter, “Soldiers of the State: Reconsidering American Civil-Military Relations,” Parameters, 4(15), Galileo)

To be sure, the military as an . . . public reputations into the civil-military relationship.

**Review process avoids Congress and saves PC**
**Sias 9** (Lang, Line of Sight, a policy resource that covers issues affecting conservatives across America. Founded by former Congressman Bob Beauprez (R-CO), A Line of Sight presents informed commentary on issues ranging from education to foreign policy, and energy to politics. With an editorial board of trusted thought leaders, A Line of Sight continues to be a source of informed insight into current national issues, November 8, “Obama’s Afghanistan Deliberation: Prudence or Procrastination?”, http://alineofsight.com/content/obama%E2%80%99s-afghanistan-deliberation-prudence-or-procrastination-lang-sias)

President Obama has consistently labeled Afghanistan the war . . . maintained awareness of the situation on the ground.

====AT: Says No====
**Obama would support the review **
**Joyner 9** (James, March 25, “Afghanistan: Counterinsurgency or Counterterrorism?”, http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/afghanistan-counterinsurgency-or-counterterrorism)

Obama's new Afghanistan strategy, articulated just a . . . not, however, have a better option.

**Obama will give in to his military leaders – empirically proven**
**Krauthammer 9** (Charles, October 11, “Charles Krauthammer: In Afghanistan, the generals have spoken. But will Obama listen?”, http://network.nationalpost.com/np/blogs/fullcomment/archive/2009/10/11/charles-krauthammer-in-afghanistan-the-generals-have-spoken-but-will-obama-listen.aspx)

No strategy? On Mar. 27, . . . upon which the commander in chief promptly gagged.

**Military and senior pentagon officials would say yes – recent shift – better than their Petraeus analytic**
**ANI 12/17** (Thaindian News, 2010, “Afghan War: Pentagon hopes to shift from counter-insurgency to counter-terrorism”, http://www.thaindian.com/newsportal/feature/afghan-war-pentagon-hopes-to-shift-from-counter-insurgency-to-counter-terrorism_100475323.html)

On the other hand, senior Pentagon officials . . . ear of top defense officials. (ANI)

====AT: Obama Power====
Their 1AC ev is solvency evidence for the CP
**Their Bacevich 1AC evidence, 10** (Andrew J, Professor of History and International Relations at Boston University, graduated from West Point, former Colonel in the United States Army, holds a Ph.D. in American Diplomatic History from Princeton University, “Obama Must Defy His Generals,” The New Republic, October 5th, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130346439)

“Yet perhaps all is not lost — . . . opportunity presented by the mid-course review.”

====AT: Perm do Both====
**Links to politics – sequencing matters – perm causes gridlock**
**Riley 94** (Don T., Lieutenant Colonel – United States Army, “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4-18, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDocLocation=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)

In the democratic government of the United States. . . military strategy in consonance with national military objectives. 

====AT: Perm Do CP====
**They sever the entirety of the plan. No part of the CP actually fiats the plan – it just recommends it**
**Claudle 9** (Texas A&M University (Sharon L., “National Security Strategies: Security from What, for Whom, and by What Means,” Journal of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, 6(1) Article 22, Galileo, JF)

Third, it is unclear who is to . . . action that could run counter to departmental independence.

**The perm isn’t topical –**
**“Reduce” must be a permanent mandate**
**Reynolds 59** – Judge (In the Matter of Doris A. Montesani, Petitioner, v. Arthur Levitt, as Comptroller of the State of New York, et al., Respondents [NO NUMBER IN ORIGINAL] Supreme Court of New York, Appellate Division, Third Department 9 A.D.2d 51; 189 N.Y.S.2d 695; 1959 N.Y. App. Div. LEXIS 7391 August 13, 1959)

Section 83's counterpart with regard to nondisability pensioners. . . "reduce" seems adequately to indicate permanency.

**“Should” means “must” and requires immediate legal effect**
**Summers 94** (Justice – Oklahoma Supreme Court, “Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant”, 1994 OK 123, 11-8, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn13)

¶4 The legal question to be resolved . . . 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).

===Harvard Quarters, Radar PIC vs. Carrollton===

**TEXT: The United States federal government should discontinue presence of any of the following systems in Japan:**
**-Standard Missile-3**
**-Patriot PAC-3**
**-Medium Extended Area Defense (MEADS)**
**-THAAD**
**-Aegis BMD**
**-Kinetic Energy Interceptor**
**-Airborne Laser Test Bed**
**-Ground-Based Interceptor and Ground Systems**
**-U.S. Air Force COBRA DANE radar**
**-Space Tracking and Surveillance Systems**
**-Upgraded Early Warning Radars**
**-Components of the Command and Control, Battle Management, and Communications (C2BMC) not necessary for operation of Army Navy/ Transportable Radar Surveillance (AN/TPY-2)**
**The United States federal government should maintain presence of Army Navy/ Transportable Radar Surveillance (AN/TPY-2) in Japan. Sea-Based X-Band Radar (SBX)**

**Contention One - Competition – the radar is part of our missile defense military presence in Japan**
Miller 8 (John J. System Director. . . /crosslink/spring2008/05.html)

BMDS elements other than C2BMC are generally characterized . . . and is considered to be forward-based.

**Contention Two – Net Benefit**
**X band radar is key to domestic BMD – protects the homeland**
England 7 (Gordon R., Former Deputy . . . )

Rogue states pose different and even more threatening . . . was emplaced at Shariki Air Base in Japan.

**WMD attacks and terrorism**
Hicks 8 [Rear Admiral Alan B, . . . Ballistic Missile Defense,” issue 50, online]

The events of September 11, 2001, . . . to counter threats  and to promote regional stability.