[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 



[[#_Toc139177962]] 

Observation 1: Inherency 

First, US military basing is expanding in Korea despite opposition by local populations 
<span class="cite">Kirk 2008</span> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) 
<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">The expansion of U.S. ..</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of Seoul. However, U.S. military officials convinced the Korean government to invest millions of dollars to pay for this expansion as well as a new bombing training site. </span></span>

And, despite the “zero tolerance” policy and executive orders, military prostitution and immunity from prosecution for sex crimes continues in the context of Korea 
<span class="cite">Kirk, 2008</span> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) 
<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Military prostitution continues...</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> during the Vietnam War</span>. 

And, despite reform efforts and policy changes, US military presence in South Korea results in a vibrant sex industry, and information on the success of policy changes has been distorted and classified 
<span class="cite">Kloer</span>, Feb. 9, <span class="cite">2010</span> (Amanda, “Sex Trafficking High Around U.S. Military Bases Abroad” 
http://humantrafficking.change.org/blog/view/sex_trafficking_high_around_us_military_bases_abroad) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Serving in the United States ...</span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Korean government policy.</span></span> 
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>

This perpetual machinery of military sexual exploitation is structured into the US-Korean relationship—we have total control of the military situation in Korea and shield out soldiers and military leaders from prosecution  
<span class="cite">Korea International War Crimes Tribunal 2001</span> (New York Report on US Crimes in Korea 1945-2001 “Statistics on Crimes Committed by US Troops in south Korea” http://www.iacenter.org/Koreafiles/ktc-civilnetwork.htm.T.K) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Crimes committed by US ...</span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and it’s own general serving as a Joint Chief of Staff of the combined army, only exacerbates the unfair situation</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span> 

Advantage 1: Rape 

First, military bases in Asia (specifically Korea) inherently result in rape and other forms of violence against women 
<span class="cite">Kirk 2008</span> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) 
<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Violence against women is pervasive ...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and social structures. </span></span>

This strategy of military basing on foreign territories is the foundation of a pervasive militarism that results in racism, sexism, sexual violence, rape, environmental destruction, and war!!! All of these impacts have our bases as their common core 
<span class="cite">Kirk, 2008</span> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) 
<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">The power dynamics of militarism...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">t – that reinforce gender stereotypes.</span> </span></span>


And, rape outweighs any impacts: it’s worse than nuclear war 
<span class="cite">New York Times, 1983</span> [December 29, 1983, “A Feminist Campaign for the Presidency”] 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">She argues, for example, that </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">violence against women is a fundamental political issue. As long as a society</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> casually </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">tolerates the crime of rape</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, she says<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, </span></span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">it will tolerate all other forms of violence, including nuclear war</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ''We don't even know what peace is,'' she says. ''Women are being waged war upon. In our most intimate lives, we are at war. </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Peace has</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> got </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">to begin with peace between the sexes.''</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Advantage 2: Patirachy </span>**
Rape is the ultimate expression of patriarchy 
<span class="cite">Cahill, 2001</span> Ann Cahill, Associate Professor of Philosophy, Rethinking Rape, Page 2, 2001 
<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Rape is</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for...es and can do to women</span>? 

We must recognize patriarchy as the system that keeps all forms of violence alive. The impact of patriarchy outweighs all and culminates in extinction. Our plan’s confrontation of the patriarchal conceptions embedded in militarism is key to solve. 
<span class="cite">Warren and Cady 1996</span> (Karen and Duane, Assistant Professors Macalester University and Hamline University, Bringing Peace Home: Feminism, Violence, and Nature, p. 12-13, LV) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Operationalized, </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">evidence...</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">national, and global contexts.</span> 


Advantage 3: Sex Trafficking 

First, Prostitution and brothels are INTEGRAL to US military bases in Korea, culminating in sexual exploitation 
<span class="cite">Enriquez, 1999</span> (Jean, Director of the Coalition Against the Trafficking of Women in the Asia Pacific, November, 
“Filipinas in Prostitution around U.S. Military Bases in Korea: A Recurring Nightmare”, http://www.catw-<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ap.org/resources/speeches-papers/filipinas-in-prostitution-around-us-military-bases-in-korea-a-recurring-nightmare/) </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The grave labour situation that migrant women find themselves in, compounded by <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the continuing arrival of women ...</span>t similarly earn from the lucrative R & R business. </span></span>

South Korea is a central hub and transit point for sex trafficking in the broader Asia-Pacific region 
<span class="cite">Statemaster Encyclopedia, 2006</span> (“Encyclopedia > Prostitution in South Korea”, http://www.statemaster.com/encyclopedia/Prostitution-in-South-Korea) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Prostitution in South Korea is a large illegal industry. The Ministry of Gender and Family Equality estimated that it comprises over 4% of South Korea's GDP, with revenue exceeding $22 billion. Prostitution ranges from streetwalkers in red light districts to expensive "room salons" for private parties. </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Out of a total population of about 48 million, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">there are ...</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">o </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">have been tricked or forced. </span></span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>

Prostitution is inseparable from sex trafficking. Trafficking is akin to slavery and dehumanization 
<span class="cite">Enriquez, 1999</span> (Jean, Director of the Coalition Against the Trafficking of Women in the Asia Pacific, November, 
“Filipinas in Prostitution around U.S. Military Bases in Korea: A Recurring Nightmare”, http://www.catw-ap.org/resources/speeches-papers/filipinas-in-prostitution-around-us-military-bases-in-korea-a-recurring-nightmare/) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">CATW asserts that </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">trafficking in women ...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">perceived as less than human. </span></span>

This is a good old fashioned Decision Rule—we must place values over survival, especially in the context of contemporary human slavery that takes the form of human trafficking 
<span class="cite">Schmitz, 2004</span> (Joseph E., Inspector General of the Department of Defense, “Implementing the Department of Defense 
“Zero Tolerance” Policy With Regard to Trafficking in Humans”, http://www.dodig.mil/fo/JES_TIP_Testimony_092104.pdf) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A more fundamental answer might be that </span>..<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> leadership standard. </span> 


You have an ethical obligation to vote affirmative. Always put ethics first. Without a system of ethics, it threatens the very existence of humanity. 
<span class="cite">Bromberg 2009</span> (Sarah, Feminist Author, Scholar, and Activist, “<span class="apple-style-span">The Evolution of Ethics: An Introduction to Cybernetic Ethics”, </span>http://www.evolutionaryethics.com/chapter1.html, <span class="apple-style-span">12/25/09</span>, LV) 
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The evolution of..and slaughtering of human beings. </span></span>


PLAN: The United States Federal Government should remove its bases from South Korea through normal means. We reserve the right to clarify. 


Observation 3: Solvency 

Only withdrawal of our military basing can prevent sexploitation—the plan is the only option to combat rape and sex trafficking  
<span class="cite">Kirk, 2008</span> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) 
Addressing Militarism 
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Militarism is a system ...<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">ndividuals and organizations are crying out for justice, united by threads of hope and visions for a different future. Our job is to listen to them and to act accordingly.</span> </span></span>

Observation 4: Our critical framework 

Sex trafficking and rape are flourishing, and we are complicit due to our military basing strategies in Asia. Postmodern problematizations of feminisms and definitions promote the very silence that fuels this system of sexploitation. Academia is a key site for the theorization of the global sex trade and is vital to opening up spaces of resistance. 
<span class="cite">Stone, 2005</span> (Marjorie, Prof Gender Studies @ Dalhousie University, “Twenty-first Century Global Sex Trafficking: 
Migration, Capitalism, Class, and Challenges for Feminism Now”, ESC: English Studies in Canada 31.2-3, Project Muse, http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/esc_english_studies_in_canada/v031/31.2stone.html) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a chapter on "The Breaking Grounds" in The Natashas: The New Global Sex Trade (2003), Canadian journalist Victor Malarek interviews a young woman named Sophia describing how trafficked women and ...</span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> face of indifference or opposition.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>

Our affirmative conception of power relations enables transformative possibilities for emancipation that breaks down the oppressor/oppressed dichotomy and opens up space for alternative voices and silenced perspectives 
<span class="cite">White</span>, JD @ Harvard Law, <span class="cite">1992</span> (Lucie, 77 Cornell L. Rev. 1499, Sept) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second reason...</span> __microdynamics of everyday life.__ 


Even if representing Others “from above” risks colonialism, our acknowledgement of our complicity in oppression (e.g. the imperialism of the US) reverses the power equation and enables counter-hegemonic resistance 
<span class="cite">Kothari</span>, Prof Post Colonial Studiees @ St Xaviers, <span class="cite">1998</span> (Rita, interventions, V1 N1, p35-6) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now to some...</span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> tread this path.</span> </span></span>

Finally, it is the very discourse of this debate rounds that functions to map out logics of domination and solve oppression and enable resistance 
<span class="cite">Cuomo 2002</span> (Chris, Associate Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies at the University of Cincinnati, "On Ecofeminist Philosophy", Ethics & the Environment, Vol #7, #2, Project MUSE, LV) 
<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Talk of a logic ...engagement and improvement</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span> 

<span style="line-height: normal; mso-line-break-override: restrictions; text-autospace: ideograph-numeric ideograph-other; text-indent: 0in;"><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; mso-line-break-override: restrictions; text-autospace: ideograph-numeric ideograph-other; text-indent: 0in;"><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; mso-line-break-override: restrictions; text-autospace: ideograph-numeric ideograph-other; text-indent: 0in;"><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span></span>


<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]