[[toc]]

[[2010-2011 — Edina (MN) — Mimi Sergent-Leventhal & Erin Sielaff|Back to Main Page]]

=Deterrence DA= 





==1NC - Valley (vs. CR Wash BK)== 


The U.S. is taking a tough line to deter future North Korean aggression 
Reuters, 10 (5/24/10, Jeff Mason, “Obama Tells Military: Prepare for North Korea Aggression,” 
http: www.commondreams.org/headline/2010/05/24-6, JMP) 

WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama has [...] would be appropriate," he said. 


Withdrawal will wreck U.S. influence 
Kang & Cha, 03 – *associate professor of Business at Dartmouth, AND associate professor of government Georgetown’s school of Foreign Service (May/June 2003, David C. Kang, Victor D. Cha, Foreign Policy, “Think Again: The Korea Crisis,” http: www.ituassu.com.br/asia_fp1.pdf, JMP) 

“The United States Should Pull [...] abrogation of its alliance are not. 


Also, regional states’ confidence in the U.S. commitment is key to East Asian stability and U.S. global leadership – the impact is rapid Japan remilitarization, Taiwan conflict and instability in India-Pakistan and Korea 
Goh, 08 – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database, JMP) 

The centrality of these mutual processes [...] would appear to be much worse. 


This causes great power nuclear conflict 
Gray, 05 – Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” http: www.carlisle.army. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm) 

6. Interstate War, Down [...] , honor, and interest.”23 



==1NC - St Marks (vs Kinkaid DR)== 



The U.S. is taking a tough line to deter future North Korean aggression 
Reuters, 10 (5/24/10, Jeff Mason, “Obama Tells Military: Prepare for North Korea Aggression,” 
http: www.commondreams.org/headline/2010/05/24-6, JMP) 

WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama has [...] would be appropriate," he said. 


Withdrawal will wreck U.S. influence 
Kang & Cha, 03 – associate professor of Business at Dartmouth, AND associate professor of government Georgetown’s school of Foreign Service (May/June 2003, David C. Kang, Victor D. Cha, Foreign Policy, “Think Again: The Korea Crisis,” http: www.ituassu.com.br/asia_fp1.pdf, JMP) 

“The United States Should Pull [...] abrogation of its alliance are not. 


Will also cause Japan to nuclearize and embolden China against Taiwan 
Dao, 03 (1/5/03, James, NY Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?” http: www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html, JMP) 

Deciding if now is the time [...] that they see in the region." 


Japan prolif causes a chain reaction in Asia and collapses the NPT. 
Halloran, 2009 
[Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics, http: www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html] 

That anxiety has reinvigorated a debate [...] huddled under the US nuclear umbrella. 


Nuclear war 
Cimbala, 2008 [Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld] 

If the possibility existed of a [...] or marginalization of major interstate warfare. 


Also, regional states’ confidence in the U.S. commitment is key to East Asian stability and U.S. global leadership – the impact is rapid Japan remilitarization, Taiwan conflict and instability in India-Pakistan and Korea 
Goh, 08 – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database, JMP) 

The centrality of these mutual processes [...] would appear to be much worse. 


This causes great power nuclear conflict 
Gray, 05 – Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” http: www.carlisle.army. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm) 

6. Interstate War, Down [...] , honor, and interest.”23 



=Alliance DA= 

==2NC Uniqueness - MBA (vs. Kinkaid BB)== 

Alliance commitment post-artillery firing strong
NY Times 11/23/10 (“ U.S. Firm in Support of South Korea ” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/24/world/asia/24pentagon.html?_r=1&partner=rss&emc=rss&pagewanted=print)

WASHINGTON — In response to the [...] Agreement. Such behavior is unacceptable.” 


Maintaining the alliance is key to preventing northern aggression
Korea Times 12/2/10 (“ Shelling incident reinforces US-ROK alliance: expert ” http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2010/12/113_77371.html)

North Korea’s deadly shelling of a [...] now that the drills are over.




=Advantage CPs= 



==1NC - St Marks (vs. Kinkaid DR)== 



Text: The United States federal government should 
-establish and publicly portray a willingness to engage North Korea diplomatically in a reciprocal process 
-convince other regional actors to participate in a multilateral security solution with negotiations being open and scheduled on a continuous basis. 
-offer Russia the mediator role 
-propose the creation of a body that organizes economic assistance to North Korea with the goal of system transformation. 


This solves Korean War better than the aff and avoids the (deterrence/economy) DA 
Kinne 4 – US Army Colonel (5/3/2004, Gary, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea”, US Army War College Strategy Research Project, http: www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691) MGM 

The United States, through its [...] regional and potential world super power. 



=Victory CP= 

==1NC - MBA (vs. Kinkaid BB)== 

Fighting and winning in South Korea is necessary to send a signal 
Scheuer 11/23/10 – former head of the CIA terrorism unit (“ "I say nuke 'em": Conservatives bang the drum for war with North Korea ” http://mediamatters.org/research/201011230041)

KILMEADE: Joining us now is [...] , they can build new boats. 


No war in a world of US support – overwhelming military power
RIA Novosti 11/23/10 (“ Clash in the Yellow Sea: What's next for North and South Korea? ” http://en.rian.ru/analysis/20101123/161467143.html)

The answer to this question depends [...] and formidable rhetoric on both sides. 


The time to take a hard military line North Korea is now – aid and ignorance promote aggression
Schweizer 11/23/10 - Research Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University and a former consultant to NBC News. He is a New York Times best-selling author of more than a dozen books (Peter “ What is North Korea Up To? ” http://bigpeace.com/pschweizer/2010/11/23/what-is-north-korea-up-to/)

Contrary to what some are saying [...] temper tantrum will embolden them further. 


Troops are necessary to maintain peace on the peninsula 
Cohen 11/26/10 – former Secretary of Defense, head of Cohen group (William, in an interview with Norah O’Donnell of MSNBC, “ Interview With William Cohen Fmr. U.S. Secretary of Defense,” Lexis)

NORAH O`DONNELL, [...] basis for some time to come.


Peaceful overtures – North Korea knows the South doesn’t want war
Lankov 11/24/10 - a historian of Korea, and a professor of Kookmin University in Seoul, has been watching North Korea for 25 years. He is the author of numerous books on Korea (Andrei “ North Korea manufactured this crisis ” http://www.cnn.com/2010/OPINION/11/24/andrei.lankov.korea/)

However, this is not the [...] and they seem to be right. 


No risk of war during exercises – only a chance weakening our presence leads to conflict - turns the aff 
Hill and Sigal 11/24/10 - former assistant secretary of state, led the U.S. team negotiating with the North Koreans from 2005 to 2008. He's now dean of the Josef Korbel School of International Studies at the University of Denver. AND Leon Sigal, who has written extensively about U.S./Korean relations. He's with the Social Science Research Council, an independent think tank in New York City. (Christopher and Leon, in an interview with Jim Lehrer “ U.S. Explores Delicate Options in Korean Response ” http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/military/july-dec10/northkorea2_11-24.html?print)

JIM LEHRER: We have [...] the part of the North Koreans.


South Korean support is key to peace on the peninsula
Hill and Sigal 11/24/10 - former assistant secretary of state, led the U.S. team negotiating with the North Koreans from 2005 to 2008. He's now dean of the Josef Korbel School of International Studies at the University of Denver. AND Leon Sigal, who has written extensively about U.S./Korean relations. He's with the Social Science Research Council, an independent think tank in New York City. (Christopher and Leon, in an interview with Jim Lehrer “ U.S. Explores Delicate Options in Korean Response ” http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/military/july-dec10/northkorea2_11-24.html?print)

I think the North Koreans really [...] confrontations, North/South confrontations. 


Military exercises are key to deterrence
ICG 12/23/10 (“ North Korea: The Risks of War in the Yellow Sea ” http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/198-north-korea-the-risks-of-war-in-the-yellow-sea.aspx)

The response to the attack [...] the overall balance of conventional forces. 



=Case Answers= 




==CBW Answers== 



===1NC - St Marks (vs. Kinkaid DR)=== 



No chance of US retaliation to non-nuclear attacks – 2010 NPR proves 
Rogin, 10 (Josh, 4/6/10, “Obama embraces missile defense in nuclear review,” Foreign Policy, http: thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/04/06/obama_embraces_missile_defense_in_nuclear_review) 

The document claims that missile defense [...] deterrence burden," the review reads. 


The US would never respond to an attack or break the taboo 
Roehrig, 10 (Terence, Associate Professor in National Security Studies at the U.S. Naval War College,Ph.D UW-Madison, past President of the Association of Korean Political Studies, "Nuclear Weapons and Extended Deterrence:The U.S. Nuclear Umbrella over South Korea", U.S. Naval War CollegeNational Security Decision Making Department, February 2010, http: www.allacademic.com meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/4/1/6/5/7/pages416574/p416574-1.php)

Despite the certainty of the verbiage [...] U.S. nuclear umbrella.


Won't Respond
Morgan, 9 (Patrick, Thomas and Elizabeth Tierney Chair in Peace and Conflict Studies at the University of California, Irvine, "Considerations Bearing on a Possible Retraction of the American Nuclear Umbrella Over the ROK", June 21, produced as part of the project “Improving Regional Security and Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula: U.S. Policy Interests and Options.”, http: www.ncnk.org/resources/publications/Morgan%20Considerations%20Bearing_on_a_Possible_Retraction_of_the_American_Nuclear_Umbrella.pdf) 
This can be annoying because the [...] but it seems to be fading.)



==North Korea War Answers== 

===1NC - St Marks (vs. Kinkaid DR)=== 


No war – steps toward dialogue because of stability from succession
Fox News 10/9/10 (“ US Eyes New Talks With North Korea ” http: www.myfoxmemphis.com/dpps/news/us-eyes-new-talks-with-north-korea-dpgonc-km-20101009_10031150)

(NewsCore) - North [...] Yongbyon nuclear facility north of Pyongyang. 


No war – regime wants to preserve its survival
Asia Monitor, 09 (7/1/09, “Rising Risk of Military Crash” http: www.lexisnexis.com)

Despite its provocative actions, we [...] , post-Kim Jong Il. 


Withdrawal will crush U.S.-South Korean relations 
Dujarric, 04 – Visiting Scholar at the Research Institute of Economy, Trade and Industry (7/12/04, International Herald Tribune, “Japan's Security Needs U.S. Troops in S. Korea,” http: www.rieti.go.jp/en/papers/contribution/dujarric/02.html, JMP)

Though it is possible that these [...] army forces will be less potent.


Relations solve global terror – signal for international cooperation 
Campbell et al, 09 -- Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs (Kurt M., Center for a New American Security, “Going global: the future of the U.S.-South Korea alliance.” Ed. by Campbell et al, “Going global: the future of the U.S.-South Korea alliance.” P. 72-73 http: www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CampbellPatel_Going%20Global_February09_0.pdf) 

America will not be able to [...] agreements, and civil society partnerships.


Terrorism leads to extinction
Sid-Ahmed, 4 (Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, “Extinction!” August 26-September 1, Issue no. 705, http: weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm)

A nuclear attack by terrorists will [...] , we will all be losers.


Withdrawal will ends U.S. foothold in the Asian Pacific Market, killing investment and collapsing the U.S. economy
Kinne 04- Colonel and US Army Researcher (5/3/04, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea” pg online @ [http: www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691] au)

Strategic withdrawal of U.S [...] China’s ascendancy into the global marketplace. 


Global nuclear war
Mead 09 (Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, New Republic, February 4, http: www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]

So far, such half- [...] we may still have to fight. 


No South Korean retaliation – doesn’t want to scare investors
Kuwait Times, 10 (4/25/10, “North Korea threatens to use nuke if invaded” http: www.kuwaittimes.net/read_news.php?newsid=OTY3MDQyMTAz)

South Korea's president on Friday gave [...] adding weight to the torpedo theory.


Terminating the defense treaty is key to solve – the plan is necessary but not sufficient
Bandow 98 – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance (Doug Bandow, “America’s Obsolete Korean Commitment”, Orbis, 42(4), Fall, Ebsco)

Whatever the ROK’s position, however [...] pawns in somebody else’s chess game.


Plan won’t stop Korean aggression – their author
Hayes 9 (Peter, Professor of International Relations – Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology and Director – Nautilus Institute, “Extended Nuclear Deterrence: Global Abolition and Korea”, Nautilus Policy Forum Online, 12-17, http: www.nautilus.org/fora/security/09096Hayes.html)

This risk is precisely the primary [...] overcome the trend towards rapid decline.


===1NC - MBA (vs. Kinkaid BB)=== 

War inevitable independent of US presence – military buildup 
ABC News 12/9/10 (“ Tensions high in Koreas but all-out war unlikely ” http://www.abc24.com/news/world/story/Tensions-high-in-Koreas-but-all-out-war-unlikely/b_v6xbRfh0uFUzqsATAv-w.cspx)

“The fact that both [...] me if they do it again.” 


War inevitable – lack of firm response, South Korean military exercises
NPR 12/23/10 (“ Korean Tensions Leave U.S. With 'Lousy Options' ” http://www.npr.org/2010/12/24/132285689/korean-fighting-leaves-u-s-with-lousy-options?ps=cprs)

North Korea devotes an enormous share [...] even prior to the recent incidents.


Alt cause to conflict – abductees
Xinhua 12/24/10 (“ DPRK accuses S Korea of launching "another political provocation"” http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/world/2010-12/24/c_13663460.htm)

PYONGYANG, Dec. 24 ( [...] bring them back to South Korea. 


Sanctions won’t change North Korean military goals – empirically true
Noland 09 – Senior Fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics (Marcus Noland, “Escalating Tensions with North Korea,” Peterson Institute for International Economics, 7/9/09, http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/pp20090709noland.pdf)

Steve Weisman: As I said [...] partners of proliferation of those technologies.


War inevitable independent of US presence – military buildup 
ABC News 12/9/10 (“ Tensions high in Koreas but all-out war unlikely ” http://www.abc24.com/news/world/story/Tensions-high-in-Koreas-but-all-out-war-unlikely/b_v6xbRfh0uFUzqsATAv-w.cspx)

“The fact that both [...] me if they do it again.” 


No chance of US retaliation to non-nuclear attacks – 2010 NPR proves
Rogin, 10 (Josh, 4/6/10, “Obama embraces missile defense in nuclear review,” Foreign Policy, http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/04/06/obama_embraces_missile_defense_in_nuclear_review)

The document claims that missile defense [...] deterrence burden," the review reads. 



==Regionalism Answers== 

===1NC - St Marks (vs. Kinkaid DR)=== 


South Korea is already promoting and participating in regional multilateral security forums
Lee, 09 – Seoul National University (December 2009, Geun, “The Nexus between Korea’s Regional Security Options and Domestic Politics,” www.cfr.org, JMP)

Korea’s Option of Multilateral Security Cooperation [...] as a confidence-building measure.


Asian cooperation high now—solves every internal link 
Xinhua 10 (Wen pushes for bilateral, regional cooperation in South Korea tour, 30 May 2010, http: english.peopledaily.com.cn/90001/90776/90883/7004712.html, AMiles)

Visiting Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao focused [...] Party talks," the document said. 


Any evidence from before 2009 doesn’t apply—regional cooperation has significantly deepened 
Rathus 10—Monbusho Scholar, Meiji U and researches East Asian regional integration (Joel, China-Japan-Korea trilateral cooperation and the East Asian Community, 15 June 2010, http: www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/06/15/china-japan-korea-trilateral-cooperation-and-the-east-asian-community/, AMiles)
Since its inception on the sidelines [...] becoming aware of this delaying strategy. 


US/South Korean relations are the foundation of active regional cooperation – a balanced position from the U.S. is key to sustain it
Choi 8 (Dr. Young-Jong, Professor of International Relations – Catholic University, “South Korea’s Middle Power: Diplomacy and Regional Security Cooperation”, AsiaViews, November, http: new.asiaviews.org/?content=ger53rger567664&voices= 20081120141855)

The Case for US-ROK [...] the United States is behind it.


Multilateralism impossible-
a. Ethnic groups
b. Territory
c. Emerging powers
Lum ’09 (Thomas, American Report of The Asia Foundation Emerging Leaders 
Conference, “Current Developments In Southeast Asia: Implications For U.S."
Southeast Asia Relations,” http: asiafoundation.org/publications/pdf/641)

Southeast Asia has long been a [...] likelihood of conflict.



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]