[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 16px; font-variant: small-caps; line-height: 24px;">Bagram Airbase AFF</span>
Plan: In the next available test case, the United States Supreme Court should rule that the United States federal government must close the detention center located at Bagram Airbase on the grounds that detention at Bagram Airbase violates the International Convention Against Torture.

Contention 1: International Law
**Treatment of prisoners at Bagram airbase violates international law**
**Zalman 2007**
<span style="color: black;">(Marvin, Professor of Criminal Justice @ Wayne State, </span><span style="color: #333333;">Criminal Procedure: Constitution and Society,</span> __<span style="color: blue;">http://terrorism.about.com/od/issuestrends/a/TortureTerror2_3.htm</span>__<span style="color: black;">)</span>



**And, As long as Maqaleh v. Gates is upheld America can flaunt international law- bagram is key- its location in an active theatre of war is what allows suspension of habeus corpus**
**Eviatar 2010**
<span style="color: black;">(Daphne, Senior Associate in Human Rights First's Law and Security Program, “Court Ruling Highlights need for Due Process at Bagram”, </span>__<span style="color: blue;">http://blog.humanrightsfirst.org/2010/05/d.html</span>__<span style="color: black;">)</span>



**US holdout undermines International Human Rights Law**
**Ramji 1**
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Jaya, Visiting Fellow, Refugee Law Clinic, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa, LEGISLATING AWAY INTERNATIONAL LAW: THE REFUGEE PROVISIONS OF THE ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION REFORM AND IMMIGRANT RESPONSIBILITY ACT, 37 Stan. J Int'l L. 117</span>



**Ruling on international law spills over to broader incorporation.**
**Goldman 05**
(Jeffrey C. Goldman, JD @ Duke, Executive Editor, Duke Law Journal. “Of Treaties And Torture: How The Supreme Court Can Restrain The Executive,” Duke Law Journal December, 2005 55 Duke L.J. 609)



**International Law is inevitable but US engagement is critical to its effectiveness**
**Institute for Energy and Environmental Research, 02**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">(and the Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy, 2002 (Rule of Power or Rule of Law? An Assessment of U.S. Policies and Actions Regarding Security-Related Treaties, May,</span> __<span style="color: #3366bb; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">http://www.ieer.org/reports/treaties/execsumm.pdf</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>



**US International Law incorporation spurs international state compliance – leads to world peace**
**Robinson 3**
(Executive Director of the Ethical Globalization Initiative. She served as United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights from 1997 to 2002, The Fifth Annual Grotius Lecture* Shaping Globalization: The Role of Human Rights, 19 Am. U. Int'l L. Rev. 1, Lexis)



**Extinction**
**Demonchonok 9**
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(Prof. Edward Demenchonok, President, Department of English and Foreign Languages, Fort Valley State University, 1005 State University Drive, Fort Valley, Georgia AUTHOR:EDWARD DEMENCHONOKTITLE:Philosophy After Hiroshima: From Power Politics to the Ethics of Nonviolence and Co-ResponsibilitySOURCE:The American Journal of Economics and Sociology 68 no1 9-49 2009)</span>



**Contention 2: Winning the War**
**We’re Losing the War- Karzai Concedes**
**Guardian 6/9/10**
<span style="color: black;">(Jon Boone, Writer for the Guardian, “Afghan president 'has lost faith in US ability to defeat Taliban'” </span>**__<span style="color: blue;">http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/jun/09/afghanistan-taliban-us-hamid-karzai</span>__**<span style="color: black;">)</span>



**The Reason is we’re losing the hearts and minds of Afghani’s now- a policy change is necessary**
**Mercille 2010**
<span style="color: black;">(Julien, Lecturer at the University College in Dublin, “Losing Afghan Hearts and Minds” </span>__<span style="color: blue;">http://english.irib.ir/component/k2/item/60774-losing-afghan-hearts-and-minds</span>__<span style="color: black;"> Waldman)</span>



**Closing the base would help us win the war- solves hearts and minds of afghans**
**Ally 2009**
(Sahr Muhammed , Senior Associate in the Law and Security Program @ Human Rights First, “An examination of Detention and Trials of Bagram Detainees in April 2009” __http://www.humanrightsfirst.info/pdf/HRF-Undue-Process-Afghanistan-web.pdf__ Waldman)




**Winning the War is key to Middle East Stability**
**Nagl et al. 2009**
<span style="color: black;">(John, President for Center for a New American Security, Andrew Bacevich, Professor of history and International Relations @ Boston University, and Erin M. Simpson, Former professor at the Marine Command and Staff College, “Is the War in Afghanistan Worth Fighting?” </span>__<span style="color: blue;">http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/08/31/AR2009083103131.html</span>__<span style="color: black;">)</span>




**Regional instability causes global crises and nuclear war**
**Steinbach, 2**
[John Steinbach, nuclear specialist, Secretary of the Hiroshima-Nagasaki Peace Committee of the National Capitol Area, 2002, Centre for Research on Globalisation, “Israeli Weapons of Mass Destruction: a Threat to Peace,” http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html]



**Afghanistan Stability key to Central Asian Stability**
**Lal 2006,**
<span style="color: black;">Rollie, Dr. Rollie Lal is a Political Scientist at RAND. “Central Asia and It’s Asian Neighbors: Security and Commerce at the Crossroads” </span>__<span style="color: blue;">http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2006/RAND_MG440.pdf</span>__<span style="color: black;"> Waldman)</span>


**Central Asian Instability Causes Nuclear War**
**Starr 01**
<span style="color: black;">(Chair of Central Asia-Caucasus Institute at John Hopkins University, 2001 [S. Frederick, “The War Against Terrorism and U.S. Bilateral Relations with the Nations of Central Asia,” Testimony before Senate Subcommittee on Central Asia and the Southern Caucasus, Dec 13, </span>__<span style="color: #3366bb;">http://www.cacianalyst.org/Publications/Starr_Testimony.htm</span>__<span style="color: black;">)</span>


**Contention 3: Human Rights**
**Blatant Violations of Human Rights Violations exist at Bagram- Torture**
**Press 2002**
<span style="color: black;">(Eyal, journalist whose work has appeared in the New York Times Magazine, The Nation, Atlantic Monthly, and other publications, “Tortured Logic: Thumbscrewing International Law” http://www.amnestyusa.org/magazine/tortured.html” Waldman)</span>


**Now is key**
**Human Rights Watch 9**
<span style="color: black;">1/14,World Report: Obama Should Emphasize Human Rights Stop Abusive States From Playing System to Avert Criticism, JANUARY 14, 2009,</span>__<span style="color: #3366bb;">http://www.hrw.org/en/news/2009/01/14/2009-world-report-obama-should-emphasize-human-rights</span>__


**US Human Rights key to International Credibility**
**Powel 8**
<span style="color: black;">(Associate Prof of Law @ Fordham, 8 (Catherine, American Constitutional Society, October) </span>__<span style="color: blue;">http://www.acslaw.org/files/C%20Powell%20Blueprint.pdf</span><span style="color: black;">)</span>__


**Human Rights outweigh Extinction**
**Shattuck 94**
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">JOHN SHATTUCK, ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS, 4/19/94 (//Federal News Service//)</span>


**HR Violation leads to Extinction**
**Copelon 99**
(Rhonda Copelon, law at City University of New York, 1999 (3 N.Y. City L. Rev. 59))






=Negative= 
==Security Kritik== 
**The aff frames the world and its people as objects and tools to be policed and used as needed. This labels certain populations as expendable. Instead of making us safer it naturalizes a mode of politics that ensures absolute war and extermination.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10.5pt;">Burke</span>__****<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.5pt;">, Senior Lecturer in the School of Politics and Int. Relations at the Univ. of New South Wales, Sydney, </span>****__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10.5pt;">in ʻ7 </span>__****<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.5pt;">[Anthony, Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence, 190-210] </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
**The aff is constructing threats in order to coerce order and control. They are treating human life as an animal existence, a living that just happens to be. The aff’s strategical debate is a world of calculations where ethics are nonexistent.**
__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Burke</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">, Senior Lecturer in the School of Politics and Int. Relations at the Univ. of New South Wales, Sydney, </span> __<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">in ʻ7 </span>__ <span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">[Anthony, Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence, 196-7]</span>



**Extinction is inevitable due to environmental damage, climate change, and depletion of resources.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Wiener 5 </span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Jonathan B., Perkins Professor of Law, Environmental Policy, and Public Policy at Duke University, and a University Fellow of Resources for the Future, “Book Review: Catastrophe: Risk and Response; Collapse: How societies choose to fail or succeed”, Journal of Public Analysis and Management, Autumn, Volume 24, Issue 4, pp. 885-9)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 0px;">**And, there is no link turn. Reliance on the forms of knowledge that produce the security dilemma inevitably replicates its**</span>
**most violent tendencies in one-way or another**.
<span style="display: block; line-height: 11.3pt; margin-right: 201.35pt; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Chow</span>__****<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">, Prof. of Modern Culture and Media at Brown University, </span>****__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">in </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">06 </span>__****<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">[Rey, The Age of the World Target, pg. 39-41]</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 11.3pt; margin-right: 201.35pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>

**The affirmative will argue that they resolve a particular instance of international insecurity; however, the causes of wars run deeper – particular events and threats flow on a deeper bed-rock of strategic reason and sovereignty. These dual ontologies render conflict unavoidable and necessary since all life becomes usable for geostrategic ends.**
<span style="line-height: 15px;">__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Burke</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">, senior lecturer at University of New South Whales, </span> __<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">07 </span>__ <span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">[Anthony, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”, theory & Event, 10, 2]</span></span>


**The impetus toward security is premised on an ontological framework that commits itself to order and control not only of conflict, but of life itself. This drive to order anything and everything guarantees that the mass graves and nuclear holocausts of the 20th century will be repeated.**
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.5pt;">Burke</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8.5pt;">, senior lecturer at University of New South Whales, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.5pt;">07 </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8.5pt;">[Anthony, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”, theory & Event, 10, 2] </span>


**<span class="TagsChar">Were they to succeed, the measures of security championed by the affirmative would manage to protect life only by suppressing some profoundly valuable part of it. Difference, Uncertainty, and Change are important parts of what makes life beautiful. Security is a hostile effort to eradicate these paradoxes in favor of knowledge and predictability. This results in resentment toward a domesticated life hardly worth living. </span>**
<span style="line-height: 15px;">**__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Der Derian</span>__****<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">, Professor of IR and political science at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, </span>****__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">in </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">ʻ93 </span>__****<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">[James, , “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche and Baudrillard”, The Political Subject of Violence, ed.David Campbell and Michael Dillon, Page 101-105]</span>**</span>


**Our alternative is to renounce the affirmativeʼs violent and futile search for security in favor of affirming an insecure life. Precisely the defining characteristic of human being is its vulnerability to Otherness. Rather than responding to this with a fear that calcifies into a defensive disposition against difference, we should celebrate our condition in order to seek outan ethical politics of work on the Self. This model of responsibility is the only ontologically appropriate response to the dangers that we inevitably face, whereas the administrative politics of the affirmative damn us to race from one threatening scenario to another, militarizing all ofbeing in a fruitless search for sovereignty and certainty.**
<span style="line-height: 15px;">**__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Dillon</span>__****<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">, professor of politics and international relations at University of Lancaster, </span>****__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">in ʻ96 </span>__****<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">[Michael, The Politics of Security: Toward a Political Science of Continental Philosophy, pg. 137-143]</span>**</span>


**Our alternative refuses security in favor of a work on the Self which celebrates difference and questions international relationsʼ impetus toward sovereignty and sameness. Such a move is capable or radically resituating politics from the ground up and or creating ethical relationships with an insecure world.**
**__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Burke</span>__****<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">, Senior Lecturer in the School of Politics and Int. Relations at the Univ of New South Wales, Sydney, </span>****__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">in ʻ7 </span>__****<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">[Anthony, Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence, 52-3]</span>**


<span style="display: block; margin-right: 14.75pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>










[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]