[[toc]]
If you have specific cite requests email me at d.schexy@gmail.com.
=Affirmative= 
==Just War Affirmative== 
===KCKCC 1AC=== 

Contention 1: Wake Up

**The Global War on Terror was based on and justified by the theory of “Just War.” However, this logic has legitimized violence in the Middle East and allowed for the absolute destruction of perceived enemies.**
**__Burke 4__** – Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Just War or Ethical Peace: Moral Discourses on War After 9/11,<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‖</span> International Affairs, 80 (2), 329-353)

American anger in the wake … their complete and permanent destruction.‘27

**And, The United States has no intention of meeting the proposed withdraw deadline from Afghanistan.**
**__Englehardt 2010__** – Masters Degree in Area studies from Harvard (Tom, the creator of the Nation Institute's [[@http://tomdispatch.com/|tomdispatch.com]], the co-founder of the American Empire Project and the author of the 1998 book, The End of Victory Culture: Cold War America and the Disillusioning of a Generation Engelhardt graduated from Yale College and took a Master's degree in Area Studies from Harvard University, where he was a founding member of the Committee of Concerned Asian Scholars. April 25, Middle East Online, [[@http://www.middle-east-online.com/english/?id=38613]])

Yes, we could. No kidding. … over the planet’s strategic oil lands.

<span class="Underline">Contention 2 Killing in the Name</span>

**The inadequacy of just war theory is made evident in Operation Enduring Freedom, where terrible incidents of violence against civilians are tolerated on the basis that they are “unintentional.” This justifies thousands of avoidable deaths and whitewashes the violence of American liberators.**
**__Burke 4__** – Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Just War or Ethical Peace: Moral Discourses on War After 9/11,<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‖</span> International Affairs, 80 (2), 329-353)

The distinction between intentional and … constrain war rather than liberate it.

**Just War Theory has sanctified the state’s war, trivializing the murder of innocent human beings as necessary or collateral and has normalized terror constructing them as natural conditions of the social order.**
**__Burke 4__** – Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Just War or Ethical Peace: Moral Discourses on War After 9/11,<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‖</span> International Affairs, 80 (2), 329-353)

Death can be commuted not … that others may be safe.

**The United States invasion of Afghanistan created imbalanced power relations in which the Afghani people exist as tools to be used and manipulated in order to satisfy America’s strategic goals.**
**__Crowe 7__** (L.A. “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security -Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’" [[http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf]])

These elements of oppositional binaries … a means of control and coercion.92

**Modern Warfare is not only physical, but biopolitical. The distinction between the self and the other calls for the drive to stabilize and secure the populations of states. This creates structures of securitization at the local level.**
**__Duffield 5__** (Mark, Professor of Development, Democratization and Conflict at the University of Leeds, 2005 (BA(Sheff), PhD(Birm) ―Getting savages to fight barbarians: development, security and the colonialPresent,<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‖</span> Conflict, Security & Development,Volume 5, Issue 2 August 2005 , pages 141 - 159//DN)

The claim that development requires … upon ―…the voluntary principle (Cooper 2002: 17-18).

**This intimate regulation of life in order to manage the population is the precondition to the mass violence of the last century of Western politics—biopolitics is what makes genocide, world wars, and nuclear violence possible**
**__Foucault__** __**76**__ -- Chair in the History of Systems of Thought, College de France, 1976 (Michel, The History of Sexuality, Volume I: An Introduction, p. 135-140)

Since the classical age the … -scale phenomena of the population.

**These imbalanced power relations use a dangerous logic of Pre-emptive force. Pre-emption reduces populations to a state of homo sacer. This results in a state of absolute war.**
**__Goh 6__** – Visiting Fellow at Harvard (Irving, “Disagreeing Preemptive/ Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Rancière,” Fast Capitalism 2.1, http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/ fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html)

Wait At present, the time … the victim as a terror suspect.

**We should use the experiences of Afghanistan as an opportunity to question just war theory and its stranglehold on the political imagination. Its ontological premise normalizes war as part of the human condition, destroying the possibility for peaceful international relations, and ensuring continued bloodshed.**
**__Burke 4__** – Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Just War or Ethical Peace: Moral Discourses on War After 9/11,<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‖</span> International Affairs, 80 (2), 329-353)

In such a context, the just … policy of the United States‘.56


**<span class="Underline">Plan: </span>Thus we demand that the United States federal government completely withdraw its military and police presence from Afghanistan.**

Contention 3 Testify

**We must demand the complete, immediate and unconditional withdraw from Afghanistan. Arguments in favor of a better, continued US presence of any kind only strengthen it.**
**__Ely 2__** (Mike, founder Kasama Project, Demand Complete and Immediate Withdrawal from Afghanistan, 2002. http://revolutionaryfrontlines.wordpress.com/2010/03/29/demand-complete-and-immediate-withdrawal-from-aghanistan/)

I think what is posed … to be explored and engaged.

**Conceive this demand as a challenge against the empire. Our protest of the experiences in Afghanistan can spark broader public debate about US imperialism across the globe.**
**__Sherman 10__** – sociologist and independent intellectual (Steve ―The Empire of Bases and the American Anti-War Movement,<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‖</span> March10th, 2010 http://dissidentvoice.org/2010/03/the-empire-of-bases-and-the-american-anti-war-movement/

The anti-war movement in … this broader platform of transformation.

**Finally, the colonial securitization of the war on terror and its underlying justification in just war constructs all populations as bare life, vulnerable to murderous violence if circumstances demand it – the affirmative‘s challenge to these imperial ideologies is critical to open space to combat this logic.**
**__Gregory 4__** – Professor of political and cultural geography at the University of British Columbia (Derek, Distinguished University Scholar, In Vancouver, 2004 The Colonial Present: Afghanistan, Palestine, Iraq, pp. 261-262)

Dibdin is clearly saying that … sustained by those dreadful events.


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Ohio Valley Plan Text**</span>=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Thus we are resolved that the United States Federal Government completely withdraws all its military and police presence from Afghanistan.**</span>

==<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Domestic Militarism Affirmative**</span>== 
===<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Berkeley 1AC**</span>=== 


**On October 7th, 2001, the Military Industrial Complex emerged victorious from a long, hard-fought battle with the American public, supercharged with a rhetorical justification in the name of September 11th. The War on Terror had officially begun, with the middle east as the new poster child of American Exceptionalism. In the wake of the invasion and occupation of Afghanistan and Iraq, was a new form of colonialist violence in broad daylight. Despite the US’ campaign, there has still been no causal link found between Al-Qaeda and the September 11th attacks, yet the United States still maintains presence in the middle east. Let’s be honest and ask ourselves, what exactly happened?**
**__Burke 04__** -- Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Just War or Ethical Peace: Moral Discourses on War After 9/11,<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‖</span> International Affairs, 80 (2), 329-353P)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">
</span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">American anger in the wake … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">policy of the United States‘.56</span>


**In the wake of the Military Industrial Complex’s victory was not extinction, but its seizing of the social body. Our debate rounds and academic institutions have been hijacked by realist traditions and neocolonialism, propping up the “necessity” of the a global hegemon to maintain an international order. Militarism permeates every aspect of our culture, which legitimizes its insidious nature. A colorful picture is painted for us by:**
**__Giroux 4__** -- Master Chief of Biopower, Penn State University, top educational thinker of the modern period (Henry, Third Text, Vol. 18, Issue 4, “The Militarising of Public Space and Culture in the United States”)


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__The process of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">militarisation </span>has a … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a wide number of cultural venues. </span>__</span>

**The War on Terror has normalized war, trivializing the murder of innocent human beings as necessary or collateral. This demands a new theoretical framework for evaluating foreign policy. This is once again brought to you by**
**__Burke 04__** -- Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Just War or Ethical Peace: Moral Discourses on War After 9/11,<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‖</span> International Affairs, 80 (2), 329-353P)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Death can be commuted not … condemned to its permanent presence__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

**Moreover, the resolution misses the point. Many affirmatives will call for the reduction of troops in order to achieve a larger geostrategic goal. These tiny actions are the crux of militarism, calling for us to shift our gaze towards singular goal. This masks the insidious culture of the Military Industrial Complex, and leaves it in tact in our everyday lives. Given the poverty of single-issued movements, we ask you to shift your gaze towards a politics of constant refusal. This is analysis is brought to you first by**
**__Cuomo 92__** – PH.D (Chris, University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Philosophy University of Cincinnati Hypatia Fall 1996.Vol.11, Iss. 4)


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," … </span>__<span style="color: black;">inevitability of war and militarism. </span>__</span></span>

**Second, is by**
**__Petras 3__** - professor Emeritus of sociology at SUNY – Binghamton (James, “Anti-Imperialist Politics and Class Formation” www.rebelion.org/hemeroteca/petras/english/030926petras.pdf, accessed 7/20/10)

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anti-Imperialist Movements </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Opposition to … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">campaign criticism of the war.</span></span>

<span style="border-bottom-color: windowtext; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 2.25pt; border-left-color: windowtext; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 2.25pt; border-right-color: windowtext; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 2.25pt; border-top-color: windowtext; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 2.25pt; display: block; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
**Thus we demand that the United States federal government declares the end of the Global War on Terror and completely reduces its military and police presence from Afghanistan and Iraq.**
</span>

**Before effective political action can take place we must reframe the way debates occur in policy. Debates in the west have fallen into the dichotomies of good and bad, destroying potential for concrete change. Instead, we should affirm problematization – a constant auto-critique, which allows for a new politics of empiricism.**
**__Zalloua 8__** -- Assistant Professor of French at Whitman College (Zahi, "The Future of an Ethics of Difference After Hardt and Negri’s Empire" MUSE)


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">With his concept of altermondialisation (… </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">become-other”</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Nealon 2006, 79). [End Page 143] </span></span>

**We disagree with the way movements have empirically functioned. This public debate sparks a shift, actively moving toward the breakdown of US imperialism toward the linking of global movements in the struggle toward a new concept of security based upon the connections between people, not the production of war.**
**__Sherman 10__** – Sociologist and independent intellectual (Steve, “The Empire of Bases and the American Anti-War Movement,” March10th, 2010 http://dissidentvoice.org/2010/03/the-empire-of-bases-and-the-american-anti-war-movement/)


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="apple-style-span">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">The anti-war movement in … </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">this broader platform of transformation.</span></span></span>

**Our demand is the call for reclaiming the public from the grasp of militarism. We take this moment in debate, not to question the possibility of a terrorist attack or nuclear war, but to refuse complacency with the sheer number of deaths as a result of the global war on terror. Even in its artificial claims of withdrawal, still we fail to stop and grieve the lives of the hundreds of thousands left dead.**
**__Butler 9__** – Professor in the departments of rhetorica nd compartive literature at Berkeley (Judith, PhD Yale, Frames of War, The Claim of Nonviolence, P. 146-151 //DN)


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">If non-violence has the … </span>__<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">is wrought time and again</span>__</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span>__</span>

**Finally, this debate is key: We must actively resist against the structures of militarism that permeate every day society. This round is a reclaiming of the battle lost to the MIC. The War on Terror replaces democracy with a politics of fear and trembling to justify action. The affirmative’s demand is a pre requisite to effective policy.**
**__Giroux 4__** -- Master Chief of Biopower, Penn State University, top educational thinker of the modern period (Henry, Third Text, Vol. 18, Issue 4, “The Militarising of Public Space and Culture in the United States”)


__As militarisation spreads through the … abroad stands in the balance.__






=Negative= 
==Counter-plans== 
===Decentralization CP=== 


**Text: The United States federal government should announce and implement a shift to a decentralized-democracy model in Afghanistan by empowering tribes and individuals to reject and fight against insurgents.**

**Military solutions are ineffective without political shifts—only changing from the status quo drive towards centralization can create stability and serve long-term U.S. interests.**
**__Biddle et al. 2010__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen, along with Fotini Christia and J. Alexander Their, Biddle is a senior fellow for defense policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, Christia is a professor of political science at MIT, There is director for Afghanistan and Pakistan at the U.S. Institute of Peace, “Defining Success in Afghanistan: What can the United States Accept?” in Foreign Affairs, July/August 2010, pg. 59-60, IWren) </span>

Afghanistan has been a failing experiment … acceptable can still be salvaged.

**A decentralized approach is best to solving problems in Afghanistan.**
**__Castonguay 10__.** (David Castonguay, contributor for Foreign Policy in Focus thinktank ,by Institution for Policy Studies"In Praise of Warlords,” Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords]] February 17, 2010, sparky)

The United States helped develop … relationships at the national level.




==Specific Rounds== 
===KCKCC=== 
====Round 2==== 
Aff: COIN with Stability and Hegemony advs
1NC
Security K
Decentralization CP
PGS DA
Hegemony
2NC
Security K
1NR
Decentralization CP
PGS
Heg
2NR
Security K

====Round 4==== 
Aff: Afghanistan and Iraq Just war theory advantage
1NC
Schmitt K
Decentralization CP
PGS DA
PMC DA
Case
2NC
Schmitt K
PMC DA
Case
1NR
PGS
Decentralization CP
2NR
Decentralization CP
PGS

====Round 6==== 
Aff: Afghanistan with Fem IR advantage
1NC
Kato K
PMC DA
Decentralization CP
Case
2NC
PMC
CP
Case
1NR
K
2NR
DA
Case

===Ohio Valley=== 
====Round 1==== 
Aff: COIN with Pak stability and Hegemony advs

1NC
Security
PGS
Decentralization
Hegemony Adv
Pakistan Adv
2NR
Security

====Round 4==== 
Aff: COIN w/ Heg and stability advs

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Security</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">PGS</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Decentralization</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Hegemony Adv</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Pakistan Adv</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">PGS and Decentralization</span>


====Round 6==== 
Aff: Futenma w/ alliance, regime stability, and ecology advs

1NC
Orientalism
Deterrence DA
Counterplan: Stop building new base.
Japan Nuclearization DA
Case
2NR
Orientalism


===Berkeley=== 
====Round 2==== 
Iraq Imperialism Aff
1NC
Ideology
Kato
PGS
2NR
Kato

====Round 3==== 
COIN Heg and stability advs

1NC
Hardt and Negri
Decentralization
Deterrence
Case
2NR
Hardt and Negri

====Round 6==== 
Japan China war and east asian stability advs

1NC
Security
Hardt and Negri
2NR
Security
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]