[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Valley Okinawa 1AC== 

===__Contention One: Inherency__=== 

The United States remains __committed__ to maintaining an __expanded military presence__ on Okinawa—plans for the Futenma Replacement Facility in Nago are being __greenlighted__ by Japan.

Chalmers <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson</span></span>, Professor Emeritus of the University of California—San Diego, former consultant for the CIA from 1967–1973, former head of the Center for Chinese Studies at the University of California—Berkeley for years, and President and Co-founder of the Japan Policy Research Institute, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span> (“Another battle of Okinawa,” //Los Angeles Times//, May 6th, Available Online at http://articles.latimes.com/2010/may/06/opinion/la-oe-johnson-20100506)

<span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-size: 11pt;"> "The U</span></span>nited<span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-size: 11pt;"> S</span></span>tates ... 
65 years of forbearance."



Thus the plan:

The United States federal government should phase-out to the point of elimination its military presence in The Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.


===__Contention Two Is Colonialism__=== 

First the subjugation of Okinawa is __deeply embedded__ in the __colonial history__ of Japan and the U.S.—military presence is just the __latest manifestation__ of violence.

Deborah <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mantle</span></span>, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span></span> (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” //Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies//, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, p. 95-96)

"The twentieth century...
defend the people of Okinawa"


__Second__—colonialism is a form of __ongoing structural violence__—it outweighs war and their __one-shot disad__.

Russel Lawrence <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barsh</span></span>, Professor of Native American Studies at the University of Lethbridge and United Nations Representative of the Mikmaq Grand Council and Four Directions Council, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1993</span></span> (“The Challenge Of Indigenous Self-Determination,” //University of Michigan Journal of Law Reform// (26 U. Mich. J.L. Reform 277), Winter, Available Online via Lexis-Nexis)

"If there is a fundamental ...
<span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-size: 11pt;">of genuine self determination</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">."</span>


Third – Colonialism plays a major role in the death and destruction of the vast majority of the planet. 

Nermeen <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shaikh</span></span>, @ Asia Source <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘7,</span></span> [//Development// 50, “Interrogating Charity and the Benevolence of Empire,” palgrave-journals]

"It would probably be incorrect... 
and the Mediterranean generally"


Fourth -- The US’s Colonialism globalizes Racial Hierarchy – This is the DECIDING FACTOR in ALL War and Genocide

Pinar <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Batur</span></span>, PhD @ UT-Austin – Prof. of Scociology @ Vassar,<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ‘7 </span></span>[“The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide,” in //Handbook of the The Soiology of Racial and Ethnic Relations//, eds. Vera and Feagin, p. 441-443]

"War and genocide are... 
Iraq and New Orleans"


Fifth-- __Foregrounding__ this historical memory is vital to __effectively challenge colonialism__—the way we frame our debate about Okinawa __shapes__ the way its history gets remembered.

Sharon K. <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hom</span></span>, Professor of Law at City University of New York, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span></span> Eric K. <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yamamot</span></span>, Professor of Law at the William S. Richardson School of Law at the University of Hawaii, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000 (“Collective Memory, History, and Social Justice,” UCLA Law Review (47 UCLA L. Rev. 1747), August, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis) </span></span>

"The most significant... 
<span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-size: 11pt;">for good or ill</span></span>."



Sixth -- The Aff begins a shift from Colonialism towards a peaceful and equitable society. We should begin with the question of “Is it Just?” instead of “Is it Stable?”

Diana <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brydon</span></span>, University of Western Ontario, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘6</span></span> [Postcolonial Test 2.1, “Is There a Politics of Postcoloniality?” http://journals.sfu.ca/pocol/index.php/pct/article/viewArticle/508/175]

"This last question ...
<span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-size: 11pt;">dialogue might begin."</span></span>


===Contention 3 is Security=== 
A) Current Okinawa Bases are a flawed conception of security.

First, The U.S.-Japan Alliance is being __prioritized__ over the interests of Okinawa in the status quo—the continued U.S. military presence in Okinawa functions as __the crucial faultline__ in the struggle to __define ‘security’__ in Japan.

Deborah <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mantle</span></span>, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span></span> (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” //Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies//, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, p. 85-86)

"The diminishing population ... 
<span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-size: 11pt;">outside of Okinawa</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">."</span>


__Second__—dominant conceptions of ‘security’ (like those used to justify a continued U.S. military presence in Okinawa) ensure __global military violence__ that __kills millions__.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gavan McCormack, Emeritus Professor and Visiting Fellow in the Division of Pacific and Asian History at the Australian National University, 2010 </span></span>(“The Travails of a Client State: An Okinawan Angle on the 50th Anniversary of the US-Japan Security Treaty,” //Japan Focus//, March 12th, Available Online at http://www.ips-dc.org/articles/the_travails_of_a_client_state)

"While official 50th anniversary... 
<span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-size: 11pt;">Okinawa as a result</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">."</span>


Third—this poses an existential risk—militarism jeopardizes human survival.

Irina <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollard</span></span>, Ph.D. in the Department of Biological Sciences at Macquarie University, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2003</span></span> (“Choose Between Cooperation and Annihilation: A Mental Mapping Project Towards a more Generously Directed Altruism,” //Eubios Journal of Asian and International Bioethics//, Volume 13, Available Online at http://www2.unescobkk.org/eubios/EJ132/ej132f.htm)

"The hostile actions ...
<span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-size: 11pt;">human over-appropriation</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">."</span>



__B)__ New Vision of security is superior

First vote affirmative to __deepen__ the concept of ‘security’—dominant views of IR are __epistemologically indefensible__—Realist assumptions are __incorrect__.

Deborah <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mantle</span></span>, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span></span> (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” //Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies//, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, p. 89-92)

"Ideas are power... 
within those foundations."



Second -- The plan is a __key site of contestation__ against dominant ‘security’ logics—we must __take seriously__ the suffering of the Okinawan people.

Miyume <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tanji</span></span>, Research Fellow with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Australia, Asia and the Pacific at Curtin University of Technology (Australia), holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Murdoch University and is the author of //Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa// and several other publications, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span></span> (“Futenma Air Base As A Hostage Of Us-Japan Alliance: Power, Interests And Identity Politics Surrounding Military Bases In Okinawa,” Asia Research Centre Working Paper No. 147, November, Available Online at http://wwwarc.murdoch.edu.au/wp/wp147.pdf, p. 11-12)

"As discussed in this paper...
and grown up either."


Third—the plan is crucial to re-imagine ‘security’—this is key to stable and meaningful peace.

Deborah <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mantle</span></span>, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span></span> (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” //Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies//, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, p. 102-103)

<span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-size: 11pt;">"The</span></span> May 2006 <span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-size: 11pt;">U.S ...</span></span>
<span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-size: 11pt;">must be reworked</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">."</span>



Fourth -- Our constructivist approach is key to __break the cycle__—refusing the negative’s conception of ‘security’ is vital to __effective policymaking__ in the context of U.S. military presence in Okinawa.

Miyume <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tanji</span></span>, Research Fellow with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Australia, Asia and the Pacific at Curtin University of Technology (Australia), holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Murdoch University and is the author of //Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa// and several other publications, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span></span> (“Futenma Air Base As A Hostage Of Us-Japan Alliance: Power, Interests And Identity Politics Surrounding Military Bases In Okinawa,” Asia Research Centre Working Paper No. 147, November, Available Online at http://wwwarc.murdoch.edu.au/wp/wp147.pdf, p. 7-9)

"At around the same ...
<span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-size: 11pt;">to show diplomatic leadership</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">."</span>



__Finally__—continued U.S. military presence on Okinawa has __no strategic value__—the case outweighs their securitizing DA.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Network For Okinawa</span></span>, a project of the Institute For Policy Studies, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span> (“Network for Okinawa’s Statement on Current Situation with U.S. Base Relocation,” June 14th, Available Online at http://closethebase.org/2010/06/14/network-for-okinawas-statement-on-current-futenma-situation/)

<span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-size: 11pt;">"The U.S. Marine Corps </span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">...</span>
<span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-size: 11pt;">buildup in Guam</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">."</span>



=Negative= 

==Disadvantages== 
===Heg=== 
====**1NC**==== 
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">U.S. military primacy is high – an aggressive force posture makes it sustainable, and there are no challengers </span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brooks and Wohlforth 2008 </span></span>**[Stephen G. and William C., Profs. Gov’t @ Dartmouth, __World out of Balance__, p. 28-9] 
<span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">The U</span></span>nited <span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">spends […] power has ever had </span></span>

**Military withdrawal destroys U.S. foreign policy credibility-->**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tunç</span></span>** , Professor of Political Science at Carleton University **<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span></span>**– Hakan Tunç, , Fall 2008, “Reputation and U.S. Withdrawal from Iraq,” Orbis, Vol. 52, No. 4, p. 657-669
Reputation can be defined as a […] would vindicate U.S. sacrifices.13 

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sustained unipolar hegemony prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 2007 </span></span>**[Robert, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Hoover Institution - Stanford U, in Policy Review, No 144, [[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]]
Finally, there is the <span class="UnderlineNon-bold"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">[…]provide an easier path. </span></span>

====**2NC Heg Sustainable**==== 

**<span class="addmd">America’s Involvement in the world prevents its Hegemony from declining – other countries dependent militarily and economically </span>**
<span class="addmd">Carla </span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Norrlof</span></span>**<span class="addmd">, </span>Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Toronto, **<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>** [“America's Global Advantage: US Hegemony and International Cooperation”, Conclusion, pp. 251-252, google books]

"Despite these portents, even the European [...] the foreseeable future." 


**Obama is committed to current military engagement which sustains heg – image of military might is key**
Dianne **<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pletka</span></span>**, vice president for foreign and defense policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute, **<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>** [May 27“Obama Must Match Rhetoric, Reality,” online: http://www.aei.org/article/102106

"Secretary of State Hillary [...]<span class="UnderlineBold"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> to military engagement."</span></span>


===Japan Re-Arm=== 

====1NC Shell==== 

Japan is moving toward more assertive militarization – will nuclearize absent U.S. reassurance
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Robinson, 10</span> </span>
[David, professor Edith Cowan University (Australia), “Why the West should Discourage Japanese Military Expansion,” Journal of Asia Pacific Studies ( 2010) Vol 1, No 2, 312-319] 

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">"The </span></span>pacifist <span class="DebateUnderline">Yoshida Doctrine</span> ... 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">and nuclear-armed Japan</span></span>”


The only thing holding back full Japanese armament is the U.S. military commitment
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nishida, 7</span> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[Tatsuya, Department of Public Policy at Harvard University, April 2007, “ORIGIN OF U.S. SECURITY ALLIANCES IN THE ASIA -P ACIFIC REGION : A COMPARATIVE PERSPECTIVE,” [[http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/1/9/9/2/3/p199237_index.html]]]</span>
"However, a fundamental question ... 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">dependent on the United States</span></span>."


Japanese nuclearization triggers a regional arms race causing nuclear war
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Interfax, 06</span></span>, <span class="CitesChar">“Nuclear Japan Would Trigger Terrible Arms Race in Asia,” http://lists.econ.utah.edu/pipermail/a-list/2006-November/063410.html | Suo</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">"The emergence of nuclear </span></span> ... 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">such weapons</span></span><span class="NothingChar">," he said.</span>"

==Counter Plans== 
===Consult Japan CP=== 

====1NC Shell==== 
Text: The United States Federal Government should propose that it should…

… to the nation of Japan for binding consultation. The United States Federal Government should support this proposal during consultation. We’ll clarify.


Observation 1: Solvency


<span class="DebateUnderline">Japan wants consultation with the US- they won’t say no </span>

Yukio <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Okamoto, Spring 2002</span></span> ( President of Okamoto Associates (Strategic and Business Consulting Firm), Special Adviser to the Cabinet and Chair of the Japanese Prime Minister’s Task Force on Foreign Relations, Advisor to the Japan Foundation and Science and Technology Agency, and Former Director, North American Affairs Division, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Japan, Spring 2002 (“Japan and the United States: The Essential Alliance” – The Washington Quarterly) p. lexis)

"Underlying the strong ... 
<span class="UnderlineBold"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">a true partnership." </span></span>



Now is the key time to bolster the alliance: 

Michael J. <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Green 2010</span></span> (Senior advisor and Japan chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and associate professor at Georgetown University) “Mr. Kan Can Fix U.S.-Japan Ties”. June 13, 2010. Accessed from: <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703433704575303592164774492.html?mod=wsj_india_main]]</span> on June 28, 2010.

"The new prime minister ... 
<span class="UnderlineBold"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">defense of the status quo.</span></span> "


====2NC Say Yes==== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Consultation matters more than policy specifics—Japan will say yes </span>

**Struck 01** <Doug, Washington Post Foreign Service, 2/8, Washington Post, lexis>

"Furthermore, __Japan is eager__ ... 
__the U.S.-Japan alliance__."


<span class="DebateUnderline">Sutter 09 </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">(Robert Sutter, (Prof., Asian Studies, Georgetown U.), THE UNITED STATES IN ASIA, 2009, 208.)</span></span>

"Despite its fears ... 
government is unpredictable."









[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]