[[toc]]
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[mailto:sydney.chung93@gmail.com|sydney.chung93@gmail.com]] - death threats, full-text of cards, ninja missions</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[mailto:libbymandarino@gmail.com|libbymandarino@gmail.com]] - kitten pictures, cite requests, call for a good time - she will only respond to cite requests if you also send three separate emails with nothing but pictures of adorable animals attached</span>
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan Texts</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The United States federal government should reduce its military presence in Afghanistan to a level consistent with counter-terrorism.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan. </span>**

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Inherency</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Withdrawal in 2011 isn't a reality, but the deadline sends the perception we're leaving</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Rogin, 10** - staff writer for Foreign Policy, Prior to that, Josh covered defense and foreign policy for Congressional Quarterly. Josh has also worked at the House International Relations Committee, and the Brookings Institution (Josh, “Petraeus: Withdrawal timeline does not mean "switching off the lights",” The Cable, 6/2, [[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/29/petraeus_withdrawal_timeline_does_not_mean_switching_]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">off_the_lights) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When General David... they've been doing."</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Losing the War</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There’s no chance of success thru a COIN strategy- multiple reasons</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dorronsoro, 9/9/10** - visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia, . Previously, was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes (Gilles, “Worsening Outlook in Afghanistan”, September 9, 2010, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41531&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+carnegie/afghanistan]]+ </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(DC+-+Region+-+Afghanistan)) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">How is the... Taliban's forward momentum. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterinsurgency is impossible in Afghanistan, multiple reasons </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Nelson, 9** – former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Rick, “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, [[http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Q1: General McChrystal... approach would entail. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Security exists only in 5 of 116 areas in Afghanistan, the Taliban is spreading despite Obama’s surge, and COIN has only worked in on islands those of which are nothing like Afghanistan – the problem is COIN itself </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hallinan, 10** - columnist for foreign policy in focus (7/22/10, Conn, “The Great Myth: Counterinsurgency,”[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_great_myth_counterinsurgency]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When it was... General Stanley McChrystal. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterinsurgency fails without institutional backing – the Kabul Bank collapsed this week crushing any hope of solvency. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Prospect Magazine 9/6 /10** (Matthew Partridge, Prospect Magazine – named ‘the most intelligent current affairs and cultural debate magazine in Britain,’ “Kabul Bank crisis: the bailout dilemma” [[http://www.prospectmagazine.co.uk/2010/09/kabul-bank-crisis-the-bailout-dilemma/]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kabul Bank, the... about tackling production.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hegemony</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Credibility Internal Link</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Failure will spillover to the entirety of US foreign policy and prevent Obama from exercising leadership</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Fernholz, 10** – writing fellow at the American Prospect and Research Fellow at the New America Foundation (Tim, The American Prospect, “The Ultimate Test Case,” March, 2010, lexis) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Obama's final decision... his other initiatives. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan restores US credibility on two levels– ending the counterinsurgency mission will salvage Obama’s Afghanistan policy to allow for a sustainable presence and resolve the confusion over the withdrawal deadline </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Stewart, 10** - Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, [[http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But this moderate... focus on Kashmir</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Overstretch Internal Link</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterinsurgency doctrine is overstretching the US military and exhausting American leadership – withdrawing to a counterterrorism strategy is vital to preventing great power challengers</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kretkowski, 10** – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), [[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Over the winter... a reinvigorated Russia </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Afghanistan is a quagmire of attrition warfare that is destroying US morale and readiness. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kuhner, 9** – the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal (Jeffrey, Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">America is losing... arms of extremists. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This will obliterate American primacy </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Pyne, 9** - Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, [[http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Since we invaded...this past year.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NATO Internal Link (Wake Only)</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Success in Afghanistan is the lynchpin of future success for NATO – failure leads to collapse</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**D’Souza 09** – Associate Fellow at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (April 02, Shanthie Mariet “NATO in Afghanistan: Fault lines in the transatlantic alliance” [[http://www.idsa.in/system/files/ShanthieMDSouza020409.pdf]] ) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The NATO mission... stabilising that country. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Reduction in presence helps NATO- Dutch government toppling proves </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Traynor, 10** (2/22/10, Ian, The Guardian, “NATO Afghanistan Mission in Doubt After Dutch Withdrawal,” [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/feb/21/dutch-government-falls-over-afghanistan]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Dutch government... Afghanistan for years. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NATO alliance key to US hegemony </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Global Times 10** (6/2/10, Global Times, “US strategy aimed at hearts and minds”, [[http://opinion.globaltimes.cn/commentary/2010-06/538012.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US National Security... unilateralism for sure. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">American primacy is vital to accessing every major impact </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Thayer, 6** - professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A grand strategy... prosperity it provides. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan solves – reducing to a counterterrorism focus creates sustainable presence, and prevents vacillations between engagement and isolationism </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Stewart, 9-** Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The best Afghan... will be more.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Insurgency</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pakistan Scenario</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Taliban, who’s plotting to attack the US, is recruiting Pashtuns and funding the insurgency in Afghanistan</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Carmichael 10** (Lachlan, August 7, “Al-Qaeda in Pakistan still biggest threat, says US”, [[http://www.smh.com.au/world/alqaeda-in-pakistan-still-biggest-threat-says-us-20100806-11ojb.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The US said that despite … to perceived threats from neighbouring India. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">COIN makes it impossible to crush the Taliban- the Afghan population is only cooperating with the Taliban, it’s continuing to recruit and invade Afghanistan faster than we can kill, and the government is doomed because the US doesn’t have any support. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dorronsoro 10** – visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia, . Previously, was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes (Gilles, May 09, “Is President Obama's Afghanistan Strategy Working?”, The Washington Post, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfmfa=view&id=40772&utm_source=feedburner&utm]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+carnegie/afghanistan+(DC+-+Region+-+Afghanistan) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The surge in Afghanistan is not … with the government or the Americans. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A large counterinsurgency footprint drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Pakistani Taliban and will cause Pakistan to collapse </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Akhtar, 10** – professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” [[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#**1]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If there is... any moment, thus destabilizing the state. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Pitt, 9**- a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” [[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But a suicide bomber... should we all. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Withdrawing US troops solves – it lessens the risk of Pakistani instability </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Andrew J. **Bacevich** is professor of history and international relations at Boston University. “Winning In Afghanistan” – December 31st – **2008** – [[http://www.newsweek.com/2008/12/30/winning-in-afghanistan.html]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One of history's... strategy for Afghanistan.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terrorism Scenario</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Risk of nuclear terrorism is high – probably an attack will come from al Qaeda by 2013</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hall, 10** (Mimi, USA Today, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, 4/12, [[http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">President Obama is... attack" by 2013. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Afghanistan is a vital safe haven for al Qaeda – terrorism is inevitable but nuclear risks can be reduced if the US drives them out </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Arkedis, 9** - director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007 (Jim, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, 10/23, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I spent five... it can access. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear terrorism is the biggest impact – comparative evidence </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Freilich 10** – a former deputy national security advisor in Israel is a senior fellow at Harvard's Kennedy School and an adjunct professor at NYU. He recently completed a study on the threat of nuclear terrorism to Israel, published by the Begin-Sadat Center. (Chuck, “Armageddon and the Threat of Nuclear Terrorism”, [[http://www.jewishpolicycenter.org/1745/threat-of-nuclear-terrorism]]). </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">President Obama recently... a messianic era. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Indicts of the counterterrorism option underestimate the size of what the plan leaves intact – it is sufficiently resourced to provide force protection, intelligence gathering, army training and will maintain the support of the local population </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Long, 10** - assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs (Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan,” Orbis, Spring 2010, Science Direct) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This insoluble problem... other counterterrorism deployment. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A counterterrorism strategy allows more effective US leadership in the war on terror and maximizes US credibility </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chellany, 09** - professor of strategic studies at the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi (9/14/09, Brahma, Japan Times, “An Advantagous U.S. Exit,”[[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20090914bc.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When the administration's... military-mullah alliance. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A substantial drawdown to a purely counterterrorism presence will maximize US influence in Central Asia and contain instability and terrorism </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Simon, and Stevenson, 9** * adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009[[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409| http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An effort on... in fact, become.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Topicality</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Caps</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Interpretation – Aff must cap the overall size of military presence. Specific reductions aren’t topical</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**“Presence” is the totality of U.S. forces** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Blechman et al, 97** – President of DFI International, and has held positions in the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget (Barry, Strategic Review, Spring, “Military Presence Abroad in a New Era: The Role of Airpower,” p. 14) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The highly complex... infrastructure and sustainment capabilities. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**“Reduce” means diminish in aggregate** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Words and Phrases 7** (36B W&P, p. 80) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mass. 1905. Rev... 188 Mass. 363.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Its</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Interpretation – Its implies ownership</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Oxford English Dictionary 89** (2nd Ed., Vol. VIII, “its,” pg. 150) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Its, poss. pron... one, its ones. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Private Military Contractors are their own entities and out of US command </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Jones 9**- Member and Lord Mansfield Scholar, Lincoln's Inn, United Kingdom; Solicitor, Supreme Court of New South Wales, Australia. B.A. Hons, University of Sydney; LL.B. Hons., University of Sydney; BCL, Oxford University. “Implausible Deniability: State Responsibility for the Actions of Private Military Firms” </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">24 Conn. J. Int'l L. 239 </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">PMFs are active … operating with impunity. n9</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterplans</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bilateral Treaty</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The United States federal government should negotiate a bilateral defense treaty with the government of Afghanistan that unequivocally commits to removing the Taliban from Afghanistan. The United States should adopt a counterinsurgency strategy that is primarily centered on protecting the Afghanistan population, and should provide all necessary resources to implement this strategy, including making the surge part of a permanent commitment to Afghanistan and clarifying that it has no withdrawal deadline. The United States should freeze the size of its training commitment to the Afghan National Army and focus on training for quality over quantity, locating ANA divisions in their local provinces, and training an ANA helicopter division for mobile operations.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The counterplan formalizes the US commitment to Afghanistan, gets Pakistan on board and demoralizes the Taliban – they can no longer wait us out </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Lynch, 08** - U.S. Army Colonel, military fellow at the Brookings Institution, military special assistant to the U.S. Ambassador in Afghanistan (June 2008, Thomas, “Afghan Dilemmas: Staying in Power,” The American Interest Online WX) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In mid-January… far too long. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shifting to a population centered counterinsurgency mission solves the problem of Taliban recruiting and attrition tactics - it’s empirically effective </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Tellis, 9** – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Reorienting the counterinsurgency… to their operations </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Colombia proves the counterplan’s counterinsurgency and training model works </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Haddick, 10** - A former US Marine Corps officer, the author is managing editor of Small Wars Journal, writes the “This Week at War” column for Foreign Policy, and writes on foreign policy and defense issues for The American (Robert, “Colombia Can Teach Afghanistan (and the United States) How to Win,” Air & Space Power Journal - Summer 2010, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj10/sum10/08haddick.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Colombia’s Lessons for… effective Afghan army. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC AT: Perm</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The permutation fails – the defense treaty and training programs will not be effective without a counterinsurgency mission and more troops</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Tellis, 9** – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">What is pernicious… Afghanistan, and quickly. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Solves Heg</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Taliban is limited geographically – pacifying</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Tellis, 9** – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Changing American fortunes…or actually control. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Solves Terrorism</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A bilateral defense pact with Afghanistan is vital to eliminating uncertainty over the US commitment and undermining Pakistani attempts to destabilize Afghanistan and solves terrorism</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Tellis, 9** – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Preventing Afghanistan from… the years ahead. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lack of permanent commitment emboldens Taliban to forcefully recruit. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Lynch, 08** - U.S. Army Colonel, military fellow at the Brookings Institution, military special assistant to the U.S. Ambassador in Afghanistan (June 2008, Thomas, “Afghan Dilemmas: Staying in Power,” The American Interest Online WX) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Because American policymakers… amount to little. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC ANA Solves</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Focused US training on quality over quantity, specialized battalions and helicopter based mobility made the Colombian army effective</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Haddick, 10** - A former US Marine Corps officer, the author is managing editor of Small Wars Journal, writes the “This Week at War” column for Foreign Policy, and writes on foreign policy and defense issues for The American (Robert, “Colombia Can Teach Afghanistan (and the United States) How to Win,” Air & Space Power Journal - Summer 2010, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj10/sum10/08haddick.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">How Colombia Fixed… Ecuador and Venezuela. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The insurgencies in Columbia were bigger than the Taliban </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Haddick, 10** - A former US Marine Corps officer, the author is managing editor of Small Wars Journal, writes the “This Week at War” column for Foreign Policy, and writes on foreign policy and defense issues for The American (Robert, “Colombia Can Teach Afghanistan (and the United States) How to Win,” Air & Space Power Journal - Summer 2010, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj10/sum10/08haddick.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">At their worst… males in Afghanistan. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC AT: Treaty Fails</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The CP builds support for an effective counterinsurgency strategy and allows US troop drawdowns over the long term, after and effective Afghan army has been trained</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Lynch, 08** - U.S. Army Colonel, military fellow at the Brookings Institution, military special assistant to the U.S. Ambassador in Afghanistan (June 2008, Thomas, “Afghan Dilemmas: Staying in Power,” The American Interest Online WX) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, in Afghanistan…the Afghan military.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC AT: Manpower</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Training the ANA is vital to successful counterinsurgency – it will free up US personnel because it will be able to hold terrain that the US clears</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Tellis, 9** – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The experience with… ability or enthusiasm. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Combat Zones PIC</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The United States Supreme Court should rule that unmanned combat air vehicles are illegal outside of combat zones on the grounds that the United States has a lasting obligation to address targeted killings under the International Humanitarian Law of the Geneva Convention.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Drones save combatant and civilian lives combat zones while their use outside combat zones violates international law. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mary Ellen **O’Connell**, Professor of Law at University of Notre Dame, 4/28/**10**, Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs, “Hearing: Rise of the Drones II: Examining the Legality of Unmanned Targeting,” [[http://www.fas.org/irp/congress/2010_hr/042810oconnell.pdf]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Combat drones are … justify their use. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The use of drones in Afghanistan is internationally legal in combat zones, where they prevent unnecessary deaths. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mary Ellen **O’Connell**, Professor of Law at University of Notre Dame, 4/28/**10**, Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs, “Hearing: Rise of the Drones II: Examining the Legality of Unmanned Targeting,” [[http://www.fas.org/irp/congress/2010_hr/042810oconnell.pdf]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Armed conflict, however, … of its use. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consult NATO</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The United States Federal Government should propose that it <the plan> to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for prior, genuine and binding consultation. The United States should support the proposal during consultation and abide by the result of consultation. We’ll clarify</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan risks international backlash – consultation over military policy facilitates acceptance and blunts perceptions of US unilateralism </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Campbell & Ward 2003** Senior Fellows @ the Council on Foreign Relations(Kurt & Celeste, September/October, Foreign Affairs, [[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20030901faessay82507/kurt-m-campbell-celeste-johnson-ward/new-battle-stations.html?mode=print]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Given the sensitivity... in diplomatic priorities. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consultation and Communication are key to the NATO alliance </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chernoff 95**—Associate Professor of Political Science at Colgate Univ (1995, Fred, after bipolarity p 10) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The policies based... are not repeated. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Collapse of NATO causes immediate instability that escalates to superpower nuclear war </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">John **O'Sullivan**, editor of the National Review and founder of the New Atlantic, 6-**1998** [American Spectator] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Some of those... of European stability. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consultation with NATO spills over to attract future U.S. involvement </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Robert **Kagan, 2004** (Of Paradise and Power: America and Europe in the New World Order. p 170) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nor can the... the United Nations</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consult Japan</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The United States federal government will engage in prior, binding, genuine consultation with the government of Japan over whether the United States should reduce its military presence through a phased withdrawal of its military presence. The United States will advocate the plan during the consultative process and will adopt the result of the consultation. We’ll clarify.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Japan wants consultation with the US- they won’t say no </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Robert **Sutter**, (Prof., Asian Studies, Georgetown U.), THE UNITED STATES IN ASIA, **2009,** 208.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Despite its fears … government is unpredictable.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scenario One: Alliance</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Genuine prior consultation is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Gordon 04** - Senior fellow in foreign policy studies and director of the Centre on the United States and Europe at the Brookings Institution in Washington, DC, the US Senate confirmed Philip Gordon as assistant secretary of state for Europe and Eurasian affairs ( June 24, 2004, Philip, “LETTER TO EUROPE”, [[http://www.brookings.edu/views/articles/gordon/20040701.pdf]], SJ)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">What we need … the global communit﻿y.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alliance prevents multiple nuclear wars</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Richard L. **Armitage** Kurt M.**Campbell**, Michael J. **Green**, Joseph S. **Nye et al. 2k**, fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Asia, in the … global security strategy.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scenario Two: Sino-Russian Relations</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Strengthening the US-Japan alliance is critical to loosen Sino-Russian ties</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Brookes,** Fellow at the Heritage Foundation, 8-15-**2005** (Peter, “An Alarming Alliance: Sino Russian ties tightening” The Heritage Foundation, [[http://www.heritage.org/Press/Commentary/ed081505a.cfm]], accessed: 8-15-2K5)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, the Pentagon … loosen Sino-Russian ties. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sino-Russian relations trigger renewed Russian aggression</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Menges**, Sr. Fellow at the Hudson Institute, **2K5** (Constantine, “China: The Gathering Threat” pg. 426)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Of equal concern … and research entities. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This causes nuclear conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Cohen**, Fellow @ Heritage, **1996** (Ariel, “The New Great Game” accessed 8-24-2K5, online: [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/RussiaandEurasia/BG1065.cfm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Much is at … and local economies. </span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NMS</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text – The Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States should issue a national military strategy, and corresponding strategic concept focused on implementation, that <the plan> is necessary to achieve that national security goals of the United States. We’ll clarify. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Competes – the CP doesn’t mandate the plan. It issues a recommendation that results in policy change.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solves – NMS is a keystone document that shapes military policy – it integrates consultation between Congress and the DOD, building broad support for the plan</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Meinhart 8** (Dr. Richard M., Professor of Defense and Joint Processes at the U.S. Army War College, “National Military Strategies: 1990 to 2007”, National Security Policy and Strategy, Ed. Bartholomees, June, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTR Doc?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To meet these … global security environment. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NMS can effectively cause military withdrawal --- it shapes operational planning, resource allocation, and future defense planning</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Riley 94** (Don T., Lieutenant Colonel – United States Army, “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4-18, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Should not the … now begins today. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan decimates CMR – military decisions hinge on process – the Joint Chiefs must be active leaders to avoid the perception of getting steam-rolled</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baker 8** (Anni P., Assistant Professor of History – Wheaton College, Life in the Armed Forces: (Not) Just Another Job, p. 192-195) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THE INFLUENCE OF … other military considerations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The impact is military transformation </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Desch 7** - Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security Decision-Making at Texas A&M's George H. W. Bush School of Government and Public Service, (Michael, Foreign Affairs, “Bush and the Generals”, May/June) [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/05/bush_and_the_generals.html]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is no … civil-military balance.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That outweighs </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bennett 8** (John T., Defense News, “JFCOM Releases Study on Future Threats”, Dec. 4, http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=3850158, The study = U.S. Joint Forces Command study)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The study predicts … state of Lebanon</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The CP facilitates inclusion of the JCS in military policy --- this is crucial to rebalance CMR</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Gibson '8** – PhD @ Cornell Univ. (Christopher P., "Securing the State: Reforming the National Security Decision-making Process at the Civil-Military Nexus," p.106-112, RG)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">At this point … Chiefs of Staff.12 </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NFU</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The United States federal government should adopt a no first use declaratory policy.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirming a No First Use policy decreases the salience of weapons and strengthens nonproliferation across the board </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The Stanley Foundation, 2008** “The Stanley Foundation: A New Look at No First Use of Nuclear Weapons” August 8, 2008, [[http://www.maximsnews.com/news20080822stanleyfdtnnuclearfirststrikedoctrine10808221601.htm]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Case for No First Use… Ban Treaty (CTBT). </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No First Use Policy increases nuclear security and deters nations from acquiring nuclear material. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Civiak, 2009** Robert L. Civiak, Ph.D from University of Pittsburgh, Program and Budget Examiner with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in the Executive Office of the President, oversaw DOE’s nonproliferation and security programs. “Transforming the U.S. Strategic Posture and Weapons Complex: for Transition to a Nuclear Weapons-Free World” http://pogoarchives.org/m/nss/nwccpn-report-20090401.pdf Pg. 37-39, April 2009 </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Offering a … weapons are used. </span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Disads</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US-Israel Relations</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">U.S.-Israeli relations high – concessions over Gaza have overcome that tension</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**CNN 6-21-10** (Elise Labott, "U.S. hopes to rebuild peace process along with Gaza after raid", [[http://www.cnn.com/2010/US/06/21/us.mideast/?hpt=Sbin]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Not, frankly, because … no firm commitments. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US troop presence in Asia and the Middle East is key to US-Israeli relations. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Gilboa and Inbar, 09** – professor of Political Science & Communication at Bar-Ilan University in Israel, Ph.D. Harvard University; and professor of Political Studies at Bar-Ilan University, M.A. and Ph.D. in Political Science @ University of Chicago (Eytan and Efraim, US-Israeli Relations in a New Era: Issues and challenges after 9/11, Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies, p. 38) CC </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Israel has nourished … concerns and interests. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US-Israel relations key to Middle East stability </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kramer 06** – fellow at The Washington Institute and senior fellow at the Olin Institute, Harvard (Dr. Martin, “The American Interest,” Fall 2006,[[http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/templateC06.php?CID=980]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">My answer, to , … West’s sworn enemies. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Extinction </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Moore 9**—BA in pol sci from Wayne State (Carol, Six Escalation Scenarios to Nuclear World War III, 16 February,[[@http://pakalert.wordpress.com/2009/02/16/six-escalation-scenarios-to-nuclear-world-war-iii/]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Israel is especially … can stop it.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Overview</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Threats to Israel outweigh all other wars and existential threats to other countries </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Oren, 09** – professor at the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown (Michael B., “Seven Existential Threats,” Commentary Magazine, May 2009,[[http://www.commentarymagazine.com/viewarticle.cfm/seven-existential-threats-15124?search=1]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rarely in modern … concurrent existential threats. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Presence Key</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Israel values US military presence to deter Iran </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Opall-Rome, 10** – staff writer (Barbara, 2/22/10, “Israel Wants U.S. To Intensify Heat on Iran,” DefenseNews) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">TEL AVIV - In parallel .-… table and don't expect to," Mullen said. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Any disagreement in foreign policy spills over—empirically proven </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Makovsky 10** (David, Fellow@The Washington Institute, April 13, “Obama and Netanyahu Can't Afford to Disagree”,[[http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/templateC06.php?CID=1448]], accessed 7/8/10)jn </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Yet, it is … was opposite Yitzhak Shamir. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Israel worries that any lack of US deterrence would gravely effect Israel </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Susser 4** (Leslie, April 15, 2004, http://www.jewishjournal.com/world/article/israel_worried_about_us_iraq_withdrawl_20040416/) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As Shiite and … several significant gains. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Withdrawal would cause a crisis in perception of the US – this leads to Israel to become paranoid from loss of power </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Machtiger et al 10** (Rachel, Shmuel Bar, Shmuel Bachar, researchers for the 10th Annual Herzliya Conference,[[http://www.herzliyaconference.org/_Uploads/3032TrendUS_transedit.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the light … Israel’s military advantage. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">﻿ </span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Withdrawal causes a failure in Israel’s deterrent image – leads to Israel paranoia </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Machtiger et al 10** (Rachel, Shmuel Bar, Shmuel Bachar, researchers for the 10th Annual Herzliya Conference,[[http://www.herzliyaconference.org/_Uploads/3032TrendUS_transedit.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The image of … coming to power.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Missiles Link</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Israel supports US missile defense programs</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Perry, et. al. 9** - former US Secretary of Defense (William J. Perry, America’s Strategic Posture: The Final Report of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States,” [[http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/AmericaStrategicPosture09.pdf]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ballistic missile defense … for collective defense.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kritiks</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Globe</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The aff succumbs to the temptation to evaluate the grand questions of world order and improve upon the international situation which is desperate as usual. This well meaning meandering of global politics deflects the potential for our education to be used for anything other than maintenance of global violence. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Nayar 99** [[@http://www.lexisnexis.com.www.library.gatech.edu:2048/us/lnacademic/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T8820827246&format=GNBFI&sort=RELEVANCE&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T8820827252&cisb=22_T8820827251&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=156581&docNo=1|**1999** Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems]], Fall, 1999, 9 Transnat'l L. & Contemp. Probs. 599, 14350 words, SYMPOSIUM: RE-FRAMING INTERNATIONAL LAW FOR THE 21ST CENTURY: Orders of Inhumanity </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jayan Nayar "We"... from this experience </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Belief that our activism’s must inevitably, respond to the political conditions of our time through the leveraging of particular institutional appeals is precisely what nullifies our ethical potential. No matter how large the impact appeals to the state only serve to disempower our politics and lay the conceptual framework for violence. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kappeler 95**, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, 1995(Susanne, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behaviour, pg. 75-76) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">War does not... war and violence </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Therefore we must not examine our policies but rather the perspective we adopt when asserting struggles for human dignity. A policy making framework is a tool of the colonizer that accepts the coercive violence of modern law recreating the violence of colonialism. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jayan **Nayar 1999** * School of Law, University of Warwick. SYMPOSIUM: RE-FRAMING INTERNATIONAL LAW FOR THE 21ST CENTURY: Orders of Inhumanity Copyright (c) 1999 Transnational Law & Contemporary ProblemsTransnational Law & Contemporary ProblemsFall, 1999 9 Transnat'l L. & Contemp. Probs. 599 </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Indeed, much of... of unique achievement. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alternative is the preformance of resistance, rather than narrate state policies let us examine the violence observable in our own lives. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nayar 99</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Changing the "I"... than in acting. </span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Strategies </span>= 

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wake </span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 1 v Johns Creek TD (TNW) </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - presence </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NFU CP </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US-Israel Relations DA </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Turkey Prolif DA </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Security K </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">START DA </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was NFU and US/Israel </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 3 v Johns Creek TA (TNW) </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - presence </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NFU CP </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US-Israel Relations DA </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Turkey Prolif DA </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">START </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was NFU and Turkey Prolif </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 6 v Canton Central Catholic KM (Critical PMC) </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - its </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Globe K </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consult NATO </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was Globe </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Doubles v New Trier KC (Japan BMD) </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - substantial </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Globe K </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was Globe </span>

==Hooch== 
Sydney debated with Christy Winer, not Libby.
===Rd 1 v Dunwoody GG (Afghanistan COIN)=== 
T - non-combat
Consult NATO
Withdrawal DA

2NR was Consult NATO

===Rd 4 v Grady CH (South Korea)=== 
Consult Japan
Allied Prolif DA
NMS CP

2NR was Allied Prolif

===Rd 5 v Wheeler KZ (PMC)=== 
T - Its
T - non-combat
Consult NATO
CT CP
PMC DA

2NR was T - Its

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Samford </span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 1 v Sequoyah HA (Critical Okinawa) </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - substantial (with a separate subsets violation) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Iran Strikes DA </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consult Russia </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was T </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 3 v Mountain Brook DS (Critical Afghanistan) </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Presence SPEC </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CT PIC </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Globe K </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was Globe </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 5 v Dunwoody GG (Afghanistan COIN) </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - non-combat </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bilateral Treaty CP </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Withdrawal DA </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Iran Strikes DA </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was Bilat and Withdrawal </span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">John's Creek </span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 1 v Hooch KK (Afghanistan COIN) </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consult NATO </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bilateral Treaty CP </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Withdrawal DA </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was Bilat and Withdrawal </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 3 v Northview KM (Drones) </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - substantial (with a separate subsets violation) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consult NATO </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ICC CP </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Planned Parenthood v Casey CP (just a courts adv CP) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">START DA </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was T </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 5 v Hooch ID (Afghanistan COIN) </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - non-combat </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Globe K </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was Globe </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Quarters v Hooch AC (Afghanistan COIN) </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - caps </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Globe K </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Withdrawal DA </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bilateral Treaty CP </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was Bilat and Withdrawal </span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sequoyah </span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 1 v Northview KM (Drones) </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - presence = physically stationed </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consult NATO </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Combat Zones PIC </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Allied Prolif DA </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was Consult NATO </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 3 v Northview PM (Afghanistan COIN)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bilateral Treaty CP </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Withdrawal DA </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Heg turns </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was Bilat and Withdrawal </span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Grady</span>== 
Sydney debated with Alex Brown, not Libby.
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 2 v Alpharetta IL (South Korea)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - caps</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WSPEC</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consult NATO</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NMS CP</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was Consult NATO</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 4 v Westminster HS (South Korea)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WSPEC</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consult Japan</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was Consult Japan</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ohio Valley</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 2 v Little Rock Central RS (Just War theory Afghanistan)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - caps</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consult NATO</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Withdrawal DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Peace Movement turn</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Democratic Consolidation turn</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Biopower good</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was Consult NATO and Peace Movement turn</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 4 v Lexington GT</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consult India CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nanotech DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">START DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cyberterrorism turn</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR was Consult India and Nanotech</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 6 v Hooch HT (Afghanistan COIN)</span>=== 
Bilateral Treaty CP
Withdrawal DA
START DA
CT K on case

2NR was Bilateral Treaty and Withdrawal

==Blake== 

===Rd 2 v Edgemont MX (South Korea Navy)=== 
T - Substantial
T - In
Globe K
Allied Prolif DA
China War Good

2NR was Allied Prolif and China War good

===Rd 4 v Bishop Guertin (South Korea)=== 
AFAP CP
ROK Investment
Allied Prolif Turn

2NR was AFAP CP and case turns

===Rd 5 v Georgetown Day PH (Critical Okinawa)=== 
Framework
IWC CP
Consult NATO
China CMR DA

2NR was IWC CP and framework

===Rd 7 v College Prep SK (South Korea Prostitution)=== 
Framework
CEDAW CP
Globe K

2NR was CEDAW CP

==BFHS== 
===Rd 2 v GBN PP=== 
T - weapons system
NFU CP
Turkey Prolif case turn

2NR was NFU CP and Turkey Prolif

===Rd 3 v Hooch KK=== 
Debt Ceiling
Case turns

2NR was case turns

===Rd 6 v JCHS JZ=== 
T - weapon system
First Strike CP
US-Israel DA
Turkey Prolif case turn

2NR was First Strike CP and US-Israel DA





=UGA Novice (Marist BP)= 
**I'm putting this up for my novices because I've been getting cite requests and they don't have a wiki.**

==Inherency== 
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: #1f1f1f;">The US is increasing special operations in Afghanistan.</span>**</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: #1f1f1f;">ANI</span>****<span style="color: black;">, 11/18/10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Thu 01:45 PM</span></span> [[http://in.news.yahoo.com/139/20101118/888/twl-us-to-offer-afghanistan-wider-role-i_1.html]])
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">In recent months, … </span></span><span style="color: black;">conduct the war.</span>

==<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Plan Text</span></span>== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Plan: The United States Special Operations Command should substantially reduce its military presence in Afghanistan by withdrawing Special Operation Forces.</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The USSOCom is normal means.</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Olson, 2010 </span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">(JFQ / issue 56, 1st quarter 2010</span></span> [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/8.pdf]])
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The United States … of U.S. defense policy.</span></span>

==Advantage 1: Civilian Casualties== 
**Special Forces operations undermine Afghanistan stability by killing 3 innocents for each terrorist/insurgent they bring in.**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Porter, 2010 </span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">(</span></span>//<span style="color: black;">Gareth Porter is an investigative historian and journalist specialising in U.S. national security policy. The paperback edition of his latest book, </span>//<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">Perils of Dominance: Imbalance of Power and the Road to War in Vietnam</span></span>//<span style="color: black;">, was published in 2006. </span>//[[http://www.truth-out.org/doubling-special-operations-forces-night-raids-backfired-kandahar63294]])
During a round of … <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">been found tied up. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">80 % of civilian casualties attributed to special operations</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Lamb and Cinnomond, 2010 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Christopher J. [Director, Center for Strategic Research in the Institute for National Strategic Studies (INSS) at National Defense University], Martin [former U.N. official in Afghanistan], “Unified Effort Key to Special Operations and Irregular Warfare in Afghanistan,”</span></span> //<span style="color: black;">Joint Forces Quarterly</span>//<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">, publication of the National Defense University, Issue 56, 1st quarter 2010,</span></span> [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-56/5.pdf]]<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This historical overview … high civilian casualties.</span></span>

===Scenario 1: Homegrown Bio-Chemical Attack=== 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Civilian casualties in Afghanistan radicalize moderates around the world creating a non-networked terrorist movement that is impossible to defeat conventionally. </span>**</span>

<span class="black">**<span style="color: black; text-transform: uppercase;">SERWER, </span>****<span style="color: black;">2010</span>**</span> (<span class="black">**//<span style="color: black;">March 2, </span>//**</span><span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Adam Serwer</span>** <span style="color: black;">is a writing fellow at</span> //<span style="color: black;">The American Prospect</span>// <span style="color: black;">and a graduate of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. He also blogs at Jack and Jill Politics and has written for</span> //<span style="color: black;">The Village Voice, The Washington Post, The Root,</span>// <span style="color: black;">and the</span> //<span style="color: black;">Daily News</span>//<span style="color: black;">. </span></span>[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_recruits]])

Osama bin Laden … these realities firsthand.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">American born terrorists are a terrorists gold standard</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Kurczy, 10 </span>****<span style="text-decoration: none;">(</span>**</span>[[http://www.csmonitor.com/About/Contact/Section-Editors/Stephen-Kurczy|//Stephen Kurczy//]]<span class="apple-style-span">, Correspondent / March 10, 2010, </span>[[http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Global-News/2010/0310/Top-10-American-jihadis-Where-does-Jihad-Jane-rank-on-the-list]])
“<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Homegrown terrorism … </span></span>virtue of technology."

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Domestic religiously inspired terrorists are most probable scenario for CBW terrorism</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Stern, 99 </span>****<span style="color: black;">(</span>**<span style="color: black;">Council on Foreign Relations, Washington, D.C., USA July 1, 1999, </span></span>[[http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/eid/vol5no4/stern.htm]])
The Copycat Phenomenon <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">… are nuclear weapons."</span></span>27

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Bio terrorism is the most likely terrorist scenario for mass casualties</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="color: black;">Hammes,</span>**<span style="color: black;"> **2007** (T.X., Col. US … —to insure success. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Extinction</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="color: black;">Bostrom,</span>**<span style="color: black;"> 20**01** (Dr. Nick, Department of Philosophy Yale University, [[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html]]</span>)
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">With the fabulous … </span></span><span style="color: black;">research in nanotechnology.</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Reducing special operations prevents domestic terrorism</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> A. Violent suppression of terrorism locks us into escalating violence, must find alternatives</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>**Martin, 2003** (Dr Brian is an associate professor at the University of Wollongong [and author of several books on nonviolent action.] Published in the Illawarra Mercury, 5 February 2003, p. 21. The article was submitted under the title "Terrorism in the mirror". [[http://www.uow.edu.au/%7Ebmartin/pubs/03mercury.html|http://www.uow.edu.au/~bmartin/pubs/03mercury.html]])
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Terrorists have learned a … **this vicious cycle.**</span></span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">B. Reducing civilian casualties results in moderates and //radicals// opposing the Taliban</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="black">**<span style="color: black; text-transform: uppercase;">SERWER,</span>** **<span style="color: black;">2010</span>**</span> (<span class="black">//<span style="color: black;">March 2,2010, </span>//</span>[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_recruits]] <span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Adam Serwer</span>** <span style="color: black;">is a writing fellow at</span> //<span style="color: black;">The American Prospect</span>// <span style="color: black;">and a graduate of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. He also blogs at Jack and Jill Politics and has written for</span> //<span style="color: black;">The Village Voice, The Washington Post, The Root,</span>// <span style="color: black;">and the</span> //<span style="color: black;">Daily News</span>//<span style="color: black;">.)</span></span>
Despite Osama bin … <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">most devoted members.</span></span>

===Scenario 2: Liberty or Death=== 
**Unconstitutional foreign policies must be rejected or they spill over domestically. Policy makers must reject**

[[http://www.ronpaul.com/author/tmartin/|**Ron Paul**]] <span class="byline-prep">//<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: #666666; padding: 0in;">on</span>//</span> <span class="apple-style-span">//<span style="color: #666666;">February 25, 20</span>//**10**</span>
My topic for … assassinating American citizens.
This destroys the **…** <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">with undying spirit.</span></span>

**Policy makers and academics must align ourselves against torture, this opens space for political transformation that undermines militarism.**
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Giroux 2004</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East, 24:1, 3-22, MUSE)</span></span>
Hence, the photographic … the first place.
==Advantage 2: Torture== 
**Special operations run the worst prisons in Afghanistan, torture and human rights violations are routine**

**Democracy Now,** [[http://www.democracynow.org/shows/2010/2/2|**2010**]] (February 02, 2010, [[http://www.democracynow.org/2010/2/2/americas_secret_afghan_prisons_investigation_unearths]])
ANAND GOPAL: Well, … <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">where abuses fester</span></span>. 

===Scenario 1: SOF Overstretch=== 
**2 out of 3 inmates are innocent and should be released**
**AJP, 2009** (“US Military Chief: More Troops Needed in Afghanistan” [[http://www.muslims.net/news/newsfull.php?newid=269311]] Waldman)
Last month, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">a top … , and their legality.</span></span>

**No risk of a turn, Detentions drive locals to insurgency and terrorism by alienating moderates**
<span class="Heading2Char">Horowitz, 2009</span> (Jonathan, Consultant for the Open Society Institute, “Bagram Prison Threatens Success in Afghanistan” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jonathan-horowitz/bagram-prison-threatens-s_b_275495.html]], Waldman)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The U.S. military finally … to be courting.</span></span>

**Detentions give the Taliban moral high ground- Undermining US Presence and creating a never ending war**
<span class="Heading2Char">**International Crises Group, 200**8</span> (an i<span class="apple-style-span">nternational,</span> [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-profit|non-profit]]<span class="apple-style-span">,</span> [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-governmental_organization|non-governmental organization]] <span class="apple-style-span">whose mission is to prevent and resolve deadly conflicts around the world through field-based analyses and high-level advocacy. It is generally recognized as the world’s leading independent, non-partisan, source of analysis and advice to governments, and intergovernmental bodies like the United Nations, European Union and World Bank, on the prevention and resolution of deadly conflict. “Taliban Propaganda: Winning the War on Words?” </span>[[http://www.crisisgroup.org/%7E/media/Files/asia/south-asia/afghanistan/158_taliban_propaganda___winning_the_war_of_words.ashx|http://www.crisisgroup.org/~/media/Files/asia/south-asia/afghanistan/158_taliban_propaganda___winning_the_war_of_words.ashx]] Waldman)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Extrajudicial detentions at </span></span>… <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">to be negated. </span></span>

**SOF is being overstretched by demands in Afghanistan**
**UPI, 2/9/11**, (“Special Forces feeling pressure, U.S. says”, United Press International, February 9, 2011, http://www.upi.com/Top_News/Special/2011/02/09/Special-Forces-feeling-pressure-US-says/UPI-94381297271259/#ixzz1F7g6RzrA)
WASHINGTON, Feb. 9 (UPI) -- U.S. … indicators of pressure."

**The Overstretch and blind military spending in Afghanistan during a failing economy will destroy the state of America –empirically proven – Soviet Union**
**TomDispatch 10,** Tuesday 15 June 2010 “Call the Politburo, We're in Trouble: Entering the Soviet Era in America” http://www.truth-out.org/tom-engelhardt-call-politburo-were-trouble-entering-soviet-era-america60467
Mark it on … of their moment. 

===Scenario 2: Human Rights Cred=== 
<span class="apple-style-span">**SOF Torture kills Democracy through deniabiity**</span>

<span class="apple-style-span">**Kibbe**, J., 20**04** (The Rise of the Shadow Warriors. //Foreign Affairs//, //83//(2), 102-115.)</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Covert operations are … the early 1980s.</span></span>

<span class="apple-converted-space">**<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; padding: 0in;">SOF promotes military objectives over human security while violating human rights</span>**</span>
<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>
<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>
[[http://humanrights.change.org/blog?author_id=473|**Wheeler**]], <span class="Date1"><span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; padding: 0in;">20**10**</span></span> (Travis, <span class="Date1"><span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; padding: 0in;">April 05, 2010</span></span> [[http://humanrights.change.org/blog/view/american_special_operations_and_the_killing_of_three_afghan_women]])
In a <span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; padding: 0in;">[[@http://www.nytimes.com/2010/04/06/world/asia/06afghan.html?hp|statement]]</span> released … -strikes caused more).

**<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">Lack of Democracy leads to every major impact</span></span>**
<span style="color: black;">Larry **<span class="Author-Date">Diamond 1995</span>**, staff, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990’s”, Oct, p. online: http://www.carnegie.org/sub/pubs/deadly/dia95_01.html lexis</span>
<span style="color: black;">This hardly exhausts … <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">can be built.</span></span></span>

**Human rights violations and other forms of dehumanization make war, genocide, and extinction inevitable.**
<span class="CitesChar">**Maiese**</span>, 20<span class="CitesChar">**03** (Michelle, </span>research member at the Conflict Research Consortium, July 20<span class="CitesChar">03</span>, “Dehumanization,” http://www.beyondintractability.org/essay/dehumanization/)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Once certain groups … </span></span>the former Yugoslavia.

==Solvency: Perpetual War== 
**Counter insurgency can work if we end counterterrorism and the civilian casualties caused by counterterrorism**
**Malka, 5-13-2010** [Haim, DEP. DIRECTOR AND SENIOR FELLOW, MIDDLE EAST PROGRAM, moderator of the 2010 GLOBAL SECURITY FORUM, CSIS, [[@http://csis.org/files/attachments/100513_middleeast_panel_transcript.pdf]]]
I think we’ve … our subject today.

**<span class="cite"><span style="color: black;">Civilian casualties make us complicit with terrorism, therefore recreates it indefinitely</span></span>**


<span class="cite"><span style="color: black;">**Zulaika, 2003** (Joseba, Professor, </span><span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">… </span><span style="color: black;">, Issue 85 (winter 2003), ebsco)</span></span>
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black;">The events of … </span></span>global terrorism discourse.

<span class="apple-style-span">**Terrorism is an idea, therefore we must win the PR war**</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">**Harmon, 04** (Christopher, Published on</span> //<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; padding: 0in;">May 19, 2004,</span>//[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2004/05/how-al-qaeda-may-end]])
Here and Now
… <span style="color: #333333;">still at large.</span>

<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: #1f1f1f;">Special operations doom afghan security</span>**</span>
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: #1f1f1f;"> **Chatteriee 20110** (</span></span><span style="color: black;">Thursday 19 August 2010 </span>[[@http://www.tomdispatch.com/archive/175287/|//by: Pratap Chatterjee | **TomDispatch | News Analysis**//]] //Pratap Chatterjee is a freelance journalist,// [[@http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175220/tomgram:_pratap_chatterjee,_failing_afghanistan%27s_cops_/|//TomDispatch regular//]]//, <span style="color: black;">and senior editor at CorpWatch who has worked extensively in the Middle East and Central Asia, including nine trips to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq</span>// [[http://www.truth-out.org/the-secret-killers-assassination-afghanistan-and-task-force-37362460]])
When Danny Hall … end of December 2009.

**Kill and capture won’t reduce the Al Qaeda threat**
**Cronin**, 20**09** (Audrey, Prof., Security, National War College), HOW TERRORISM ENDS: UNDERSTANDING THE DECLINE AND DEMISE OF TERRORIST CAMPAIGNS, 2009, 177-178.
The argument that … to its end.

**Strong global human rights promote democracy**
**Carothers,** 19**94** (Thomas, director, Democracy and Rule of Law Project, WASHINGTON QUARTERLY, Summer 1994, p. 106. (DRGCL/B1075)
In most of … advocacy to democratization.