[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

TERROR AC

V = Morality

VC = Preventing Nuke Terror

1-ethical oblig to prevent suffering

2-meets deontic notions of morality

3-govs have obligs to citizens to protect from harm

4-most pressing issue in int'l squo
Richard Butler. “Improving Nonproliferation Enforcement”2003 by The Center for Strategic and International Studies and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology The Washington Quarterly • 26:4 pp. 133–145.

"so long as...should act now."

Contention = neg allows high risk of nuclear terrorism

high risk of acquisition in squo,
Graham Allison, , “How to Stop Nuclear Terror.” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 83, No. 1 (Jan-Feb 2004), p. 68
"hundreds of these...about the danger."

nuclear smuggling increases this risk
Albright. “Detecting and Disrupting Illicit Nuclear Trade After A.Q. Khan.” 2010 Center for Strategic and International Studies The Washington Quarterly • 33:2 p. 89

"There is also...crude nuclear weapons."

multiple other ways acquisition can occur.
Brown. “New Nuclear Realities.” 2007 by The Center for Strategic and International Studies and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology The Washington Quarterly • 31:1 p. 14

"the possibility of...bomb from scratch."

highest risk of acquisition from destabilized govs

Kokoshin. Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 67, Confronting the Specter of Nuclear Terrorism (Sept. 2006) pp. 59-63

"it seems far...but particularly nuclear."

Pakistan fits this description
Bloomberg. August 18th
"Pakistan's destructive flooding...the US says."

VOANews, September 4th
"Pakistani authorities are...and relief efforts."

Bunn. “The Risk of Nuclear Terrorism – And Next Steps to Reduce the Danger.” April 2, 2008.
"nuclear weapons or...around the world."

Bunn2. (same as above)

"Osama bin Laden...discuss nuclear weapons."

Reuters. 2009.
"If it were...Al Jazeera television."

Brown2 (same as above)
"if stolen or...extraordinarily difficult challenge."

Forrow. “Accidental Nuclear War: A Post-Cold War Assessment.” N Engl J Med, April 30, 1998

"Table 1 shows...by the firestorms."

nuke terror has highest risk

Bunn3
"in this testimony...the highest risk."

MID-EASY AC

ought = desirability

S = maximizing life

1-necessary
2-links to res via ought
3-mimics RW policy

advocacy = MidEast NWFZ

Butters. (Journalist) “Is a Nuclear-Free Middle East a Pipe Dream? Time. [http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1925255,00.html] Plyam
"widening the negotiations...the bomb either."

neg burden is to show nukes should be used in middle east
1-reasonably grounded in topic lit
2-allowing multiple other advocacies is unfair

Adv A is Iran

Iran on track to have nukes soon

Robb/Wald. (Commission on Intelligence Capabilities of the United States Regarding Weapons of Mass Destruction) 7/15/10. [http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/sanctions-alone-wont-work-iran]
"congress's comprehensive iran...program rapidly dwindles."

nuke Iran => state-sponsored terrorism + regional war

Kittrie. www.house.gov/apps/list/hearing/financialsvcs_dem/kittrie_testimony.pdf
"Iran's pursuit of...devastating nuclear war"

B is Israel

Israel's going to attack in a few weeks

Goldberg. (Author and staff writer, The Atlantic) The Atlantic. “The Point of No Return.” [http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2010/09/the-point-of-no-return/8186].
"the reasoning offered...beseiged Jewish state."

EIR. “Will London's Puppet Israel Soon Launch Attack on Iran?” { http://www.larouchepub.com/other/2010/3732london_isrl_hit_iran.html}
"two high-level sources...the source concluded."

brink is October 2010

impact of Israeli strike is devastating
Goldberg2.
"when the Israelis...leper among nations."

Ashley. "What Would An Israel-Iran Nuclear War Mean?” 2009. UCG International Organization.
"Anthony Cordesman, former...growth and prosperity."

C is Syria

Syria/Israel are on brink of war.
LA Times February 2010.
"Israel and Syria...Arab News Agency."

denuclearization de-escalates conflict
Netnews. Syria Urges Russia to help Denuclearize Middle East” { http://www.ynetnews.com/articles/0,7340,L-3887790,00.html}
"Assad for his...the whole world."

any war with Israel escalates to entire Mideast
Steinbach. (John, DC Iraq Coalition, Centre for Research on Globalization, 3/3/02, http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html) GAT
"Meanwhile the existence...a world conflagration."

==Negative== 

COMMUNITY NC

V - Morality

morality determined by community

Helen Haste. "Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality." The Office for Studies in Moral Development and Education at University of Illinois at Chicago. 1998.

"The 'meaning' of ... are not shared."


public sphere is check on gov action

Jurgen Habermas. Theory and Practice. Beacon Press, 1973. p. 77

"But still more...the practical certainty."

it is will of int'l community that states possess nukes

Drell/Goodby. “The Reality: A Goal of a World Without Nuclear Weapons Is Essential.” 2008 by The Center for Strategic and International Studies and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology The Washington Quarterly • 31:3 pp. 23–32.


ASTEROIDS CP

Text: States that have nuclear weaponry go through a disarmament program, but they maintain a small number of missiles for noncombat purposes, i.e. destroying asteroids.

implement NPT plan for disarmament agreed upon 3 months ago

The Associated Press explains the plan, from the UN, May 28, 2010
189 Nations Agree to Nuke Disarmament Plan
Nations of Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty Agree to Small Steps, Including Proposal on Middle East Arms
http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/05/28/world/main6528140.shtml

"Under its action...progress by 2014."


Net-Bens:

1-uniqueness: asteroids will continue to hit the Earth.

Marsden, ONE-MILE-WIDE ASTEROID TO PASS CLOSE TO THE EARTH IN 2028 Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics 1998 Produced at the (CfA), Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S.A.

"Recent orbit computations...the foreseeable future."

2-nukes can be used as protection from asteroids.

O’Neill, "Don’t Be Subtle, Nuke That Asteroid", Discovery News Daily, Jun 28, 2010

"[Dearborn] has come up with...the space rock."

nukes are the unique solution

Lisa Zyga June 28, 2010 by "Scientist says nuclear weapons may be best bet for saving Earth from asteroids" from PhysOrg.com

"the sheer power...would be required"

Impact.

asteroids have caused extinctions numerous times and will continue to do so

Bostrum, Nick, Ph.D Professor at Yale University “Existential Risk,” 1999

"in order to...a nuclear bomb."



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
Rawls AFF

Veil of Ignorance solves for the vicissitudes of the status quo.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">John Rawls (American Philosopher, Harvard Professor, and Libertarian Favorite), A Theory of Justice, 1971/1975</span>

Concepts of a rational good ought be based upon a collective good in order to uphold any concept of justice
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">John Rawls—1989 [<span class="apple-style-span">A</span> Harvard professor of philosophy] "The Domain of the Political and Overlapping Consensus," New York Law Review, 64. CS/LS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Differentiation in the ability to create and execute rights claims are found only in the juvenile justice system, which cannot uphold or necessitate collective action in the traditional sense.
</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 24px;">N</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">OT KIDS ANYMORE: A NEED FOR PUNISHMENT AND DETERRENCE IN THE JUVENILE JUSTICE SYSTEM, Christine Chamberlin, </span><span style="color: #252525; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Punishment and Deterrence in the Juvenile Justice System, 42 B.C.L. Rev. 391, 399 and 405 (March 2001).</span></span>

Treatment of a "juvenile" is a flippant system. Synergizing the court and justice systems allow for a bases of which we can avoid lines uphold basic social goods in the context of the US.
<span style="color: #252525; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;">Justice: A Social, Historical and Legal Perspective, Elrod (sociologist and professor at Eastern Kentucky University) Ryder (lawyer and juvenile court direct for St Joseph County, Michigan) 2009</span>

Forgoing new rights claims only upholds the ignorance that the veil of ignorance solves for
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px;">Barry Feld. Law Professor at Minnesota. “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy.” Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, 1997.</span></span>

and racism is bad:

**Berube 9**7 (Professor of Communication at South Carolina) 1997 (David, Ph.D. in Communications, “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side”, NanoTechnology Magazine, June/July 1997, p. 1-6, URL: <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cla.sc.edu/ENGL/faculty/berube/prolong.htm]]</span>)

<span style="color: #252525; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 14px; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Nietzsche Neg</span>


<span style="color: black;">Frierdrich Nietzsche - philosopher, baby-eater, connoisseur of women, BMX dirt bike champion 1873-76, Beyond Good and Evil, 1886

San francisco Archdiocese </span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.sflifeandjustice.org/catholic_lobby_day]]</span></span>__</span>

Deleuze, Nietzsche and Philosophy, 06


and this is dehumanizing. 
**Berube 9**7 (Professor of Communication at South Carolina) 1997 (David, Ph.D. in Communications, “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side”, NanoTechnology Magazine, June/July 1997, p. 1-6, URL: <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cla.sc.edu/ENGL/faculty/berube/prolong.htm]]</span>)
<span style="color: #252525;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">
</span></span>
== == 
== == 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]