[[toc]]
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]

**Note - All case specific counterplans will be put in the case negs section - this will be for like generic ones** 

=**1NC Consult NATO**= 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Prior and binding consultation over reductions in military presence are critical to the alliance </span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Smith 2k</span></span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">—</span></span><span style="font-weight: normal;">Lecturer in Defense and International Affairs at Royal Military Academy in Sandhurst. PhD, dept. of peace studies, U Bradford (Martin, NATO in the first decade after the Cold War, 16-19, AMiles) Ellipses in orig</span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Consultation within an alliance means more than exchange of information, though that is necessary. It means more than letting the NATO Council know about national decisions that have already been taken; or trying to enlist support for those decisions. It means the discussion of problems collectively, in the early stages of policy formation, and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">before national positions become fixed</span>**. At best, this will result in collective decisions on matters of common interest affecting the Alliance. At the least, it will ensure that no action is taken by one member without a knowledge of the views of the others.*1 In practice consultation in NATO developed on different levels. The American Harlan Cleveland and the Briton Sir Give Rose are both former PermReps who have attempted to nuance what Cleveland calls the 'flexible word, consultation' as practised in NATO up to the 1980s." They agree that the most basic form of consultation has been the simple exchange of information amongst NATO members without much, if any, consequent impact on states' actual behavior. Such basic information-exchange took place on a range of security-related issues, not all of which were seen as directly related to the defence of the NATO area. The Italian diplomat Manho Brosio served as NATO Secretary-General between 1964 and 1971. He later recalled instances of embarrassingly desultory 'consultations’ in the Council on the so-called 'out-of-area' issues. During his tenure there were periodic American briefings on the progress of the war in Vietnam. The US was hoping to solicit European interest in, and material aid for, its forces there but the effort failed conspicuously. Brosio recalled that reactions to the American briefings 'ranged from tepid to icy' and that they were 'always met only with significant silences or the odd word of courtesy'. Similarly, in the late 1960s following the six-day war in the Middle East, Turkey became keen to sec that region's problems discussed in the Council. They eventually were but, as Brosio recalled, 'the result was an embarrassing and perfunctory discussion, strewn with banalities and silences'.43 It would be wrong to denigrate the role of these basic consultations to the point of stating that they served no function whatsoever. The fact that at least some member governments were willing to share and exchange information on issues not strictly within NATO's joint defence remit was held by some to represent evidence of the existence of an underlying sense of community spirit. It should be recalled that another Suez-style near-terminal rupture in alliance relations has not occurred since 1956. Sir Clive Rose contended in 1983 that basic-level consultations provided 'an important element of the "glue" which helps to ensure that members share a background of current knowledge of one another's thinking when decisions on policy have to be taken….the cohesion of the Alliance is to a large extent dependent on this level of consultation being properly utilised'.44 Nevertheless some regime theorists, arguing for a relatively restrictive definition of regimes, have contended that the mere exchange of information cannot qualify for the label 'international regime' unless the consultations lead to modifications and changes in participating states' behaviour.43 At this end of the spectrum is 'real' consultation as envisaged by the wise men. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">In order to be real consultations should take place before national policies have been firmed-up and final decisions taken</span>**. The goal of the consultations should be agreement on a collective 'NATO' policy or stance, or on collective action, and the requirement to consult should be regarded as obligatory by the member states. In 1979 Frederic Kirgis published the results of an investigation into the impact of NATO consultations. This is still amongst the most thorough of the available studies on this subject. Kirgis' article included a detailed analysis of the extent to which various members had consulted during the late 1960s and 1970s with regard to proposed reductions in their NATO-assigned forces, together with the extent to which the results of such consultation had been translated into modifications of national policy. Kirgis found that, with one exception (the United States in 1971), NATO members had not been prepared to consult about the basic decision as to whether or not forces would be reduced. There were, however, several instances when they had proved willing to modify or defer force reductions in response to pressure from NATO, SHAPE, other member states or a combination of all three exercised within the framework of the collective force-planning process described earlier. Kirgis also reported that in a ten year period (1969-1979) Canada, Italy, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States all went into the dock to defend national plans to reduce forces before their NATO partners and members of the International Staffs at NATO and SHAPE. Not all of them implemented the modifications proposed by staffers and allies although some did do so.46 Nevertheless, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the fact that NATO member states did not often feel able to simply ignore </span>**or by-pass**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> the NATO force-review process is evidence </span>**in itself**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> of the existence of strong, indeed obligatory, consultative norms </span>**(if less consistently strong behavioural ones)**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> on force-planning issues</span>**.47 The extent to which the US and UK, as two of the most powerful NATO member states, have followed NATO consultative norms and practices is of especial interest. John Outfield has produced evidence that, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">on a number of occasions</span>**, NATO member states including **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the US and UK deferred or modified projected defence cuts in response to</span>** what is here termed transnational **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">pressure exerted within the NATO</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">framework</span>**.48 The example of British modification of proposed force cuts in 1957 has been discussed above. Harlan Cleveland, from his insider's perspective of the late 1960s, has furnished examples of US policy being influenced by allied concerns expressed through the NATO consultation process and buttressed by American fears about **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">what might happen to NATO cohesion if these concerns were disregarded</span>**.49 More general political consultations appear to have increased in both scope and depth from the late 1960s. In 1975 Richard Neff, an American commentator, reported a quadrupling in the number of political consultation meetings in NATO forums since 1968. He also claimed that this had been accompanied by changing views about consultations amongst the NATO membership, quoting one 'alliance official* as saying that 'consultation used to be a white collar and teacup affair. Now it has become workaday and blue collar'.50 In summary it may be said that NATO members during the Cold War period developed different degrees of consultation depending on the issues under consideration. On issues regarded by the membership as pertaining directly to their ability to defend themselves collectively, such as force-planning, obligatory consultative norms were evident. NATO members were expected to consult, and nearly all of diem did so routinely. The behavioural component of this core NATO regime was, perhaps, not quite as strong. The evidence presented by Kirgis, and discussed above, suggests that NATO member governments were not always prepared to modify national defence programmes as a result of pressure generated within the NATO process. Nevertheless, the evidence does suggest that they often did try to make at least some concessions to allied or NATO/SHAPE suggestions if possible. On matters pertaining to East-West relations generally, the record was more mixed There were some examples of effective consultation, leading to common position forming. One comparatively early example, coming soon after NATO members adopted the wise mens’ report in 19S6, concerned the status of the city of Berlin, and the western response to various pressures from Soviet leader Khrushchev in the period 1958-61. Western positions were agreed as a result of extensive consultations within NATO forums, usually involving the 'big four* (France, FRG, UK and US) in the first instance, with the remaining members being brought in later, but still before positions were finally agreed and presented In other cases, however, consultations were less rigorous, and state behaviour was affected only marginally, if at all. To take one example: East-West negotiations on strategic nuclear arms control in the 1970s and 1980s were bilateral between the US and USSR. NATO norms exercised an influence to the extent that the Americans felt obliged to ‘consult’ their allies in the NATO Council. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">These consultations were, </span>**however, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">much more in the nature of straightforward US briefings than of real consultation</span>** in the sense defined above.51</span></span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">That solves alliance collapse </span></span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Weidenfeld 97—</span></span>**</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">Coordinator for German-American Cooperation in the Foreign Ministry of the Federal Republic of Germany and Member of the Executive Board of the Bertelsmann Foundation, 1997 (WASHINGTON QUARTERLY, Summer, p. 37)</span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">As this erosion is below the surface, the whole extent of the current split would become visible only when the damage could no longer be repaired by using the reliable pattern of direct contacts and pulling the relevant strings. Strings can be pulled only when they exist that is, when political and social contacts are constantly cultivated and a high level of agreement exists concerning the expectations each party has toward the other. As the attitudes of leading opinion makers in Europe and the United States drift apart, the basis for short-term successful crisis management will also vanish. This process would not only lead to a far-reaching drift of political and social orientations, but also, in the worst case, to a direct political division between Europe and the United States in other words, to a complete abandonment of the concept of the fundamental community of interests. The danger of such a split can be surmounted only if a future-oriented concept for deepening the transatlantic relationship can be developed that takes both partners' topical interests into consideration. Without a renewal of the U.S.-European community along such strategic lines, the very existence and success of the transatlantic relationship will be in jeopardy. Creating a New Transatlantic Players on both sides of the Atlantic have felt the increasingly painful unraveling of the network of transatlantic relations, the lack of a common new direction, and the ensuing dangers of substantial erosion of the U.S.-European partnership. Thus, politicians are, with increasing intensity, creating new models for the future prospects of U.S.-European cohesion. Leading European and U.S. politicians, in particular the German minister for foreign affairs, Klaus Kinkel, and his previous U.S. counterpart, former secretary of state Warren Christopher, declared their support for new treaty arrangements between Europe and the United States, as well as for the drawing-up of a binding transatlantic agenda or the establishment of new forums for cooperation at all conceivable levels. All these approaches have one thing in common: namely, the worry about the creeping erosion of the transatlantic partnership following the disappearance of a common foe. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">To reshape cooperation to bring it in line with the times a move that is absolutely imperative the partners must develop a structure that is binding for all involved.</span>** The task of finding a new direction can certainly be compared to that facing the transatlantic partners after World War II, one that demanded a radical paradigmatic shift on both sides of the Atlantic. The founders of the postwar order were aware that this change of direction and the quality of the U.S.-European ties they hoped to achieve would not be possible if relations within the Western community were governed only by loose arrangements. The degree of organization within the Western community had to be improved and this improvement found expression in the form of NATO, complemented by its economic counterpart, the Marshall Plan. The article continues... Today's new challenges, too, call upon the U.S.-European partnership to take a great step forward in terms of commitment. The first step must be the renaissance of the transatlantic community uniting the United States and the European Union. This task involves defining a clear vision of a continued transatlantic success story, in the face of different external conditions, that is obvious to both domestic and external observers and that will give all partners involved a highly exigent, common goal toward which to work. Furthermore, the new community has to create an organizational framework that enables the diverse and far-reaching common traits of the transatlantic partners to be developed into a coordinated and well-defined strategy for political action. Unlike during the period of East-West confrontation, when all partners could rely on a common security policy, no all-encompassing raison d'etre exists today as a basis for reestablishing the transatlantic community. The creation of new binding structures must therefore revolve around issues in which the partners have an obvious interest in joint action as a matter of paramount importance. If one considers the focus of European or U.S. political action, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the need for binding structures is evident particularly in the coordination of strategy in response to global challenges</span>** and/or international crises. Today, Europe and the United States remain the only reliable makers or guarantors of stability in the world. The variety of burning issues in international politics calls for action by the transatlantic partners almost daily, often in regions where the existing institutions of the Atlantic Alliance have no jurisdiction. Thus far, no permanent mechanism exists to coordinate European and U.S. policy to deal with these issues. Moreover, both the United States and members of the European Union have fallen prone to navel-gazing because of problems and challenges at home. Yet, now that the traditional security partnership has been somewhat watered down, there is an increasing danger that the fallout from these conflicts may affect the transatlantic community, too. Therefore, it is vital to establish a binding structure for transatlantic political consultation and cooperation that would give the transatlantic partners a reliable mandate to coordinate all issues relevant to the transatlantic agenda. The structure of this consultation and cooperation could be similar to that of the European Political Cooperation (EPC) forum, introduced in 1970 as the first permanent forum for coordinating the common policy of the members of the European Economic Community, as the EU was then known. It is now time for the transatlantic partners to institute a similar mechanism, to set up some form of Euro-American Political Cooperation (EAPC), which could deal with all the issues that the international community directs at the transatlantic partners but for which no organizational form has yet been found. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The impact is great power wars </span></span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Mitropolitski 4—</span></span>**</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">former syndicated columnist with the Bulgarian News Agency. MA, pol sci, McGill. BA, pol sci and history (Simeon, NATO: Why it exists? Why it's enlarging?, http://www.ired.com/news/mkt/nato-04.htm, AMiles)</span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The political critics of the alliance see in its presence only a consequence of the American political domination over Europe. They would like to see NATO dissolved as the Warsaw Pact was closed some 14 years ago. What can the adherents of the NATO usefulness, and I surely count among them, say in its defense? First, in cases like Kosovo or other potential hot spots on the European political map, the existence of NATO is essential for early warning and adequate **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">prevention of hostilities</span>**. This doesn't mean that NATO will always be able to forecast and prevent any major hostility in the continent. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">It existence will make sure that any such conflict won't turn into power struggle</span>** between major European powers,</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and that instead of fighting among themselves they will seek an uniform solution. Second, West Europe still doesn't have uniform foreign policy on each and every issue in the world. New conflicts and developments around the globe could force the European countries that now form NATO to take some position. Forming different configurations of countries in Europe could be perceived by the others within the continent as potential threat. Dismantling NATO won't dismantle the need for security in Europe, for protecting the interests of the countries included in the alliance. Instead of one organization we'll have to face 2-3 smaller ones. Third, establishing 2-3 groups of countries in Europe will mean increased defense spending</span> <span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in each and every country. The smaller NATO countries surrounding Germany won't feel secure without additional protection. For them some kind of American presence will be needed in order to fill the gap. Without the United States all continental Europe from London to Warsaw will have to unite to balance Germany. Will the Germans feel secure with such sanitary cordons around them? Won't they try to break this artificial isolation by making again deal with Moscow? Russia will be more than happy to help and to enter again the European political scene by making one European country enemy to another,</span> <span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">but what will be the benefit of that for the Europeans? Forth, the enlargement will make the new members more interesting for the foreign investors. Their domestic and especially their foreign policy will become much more predictable, an important element in decision-making for every domestic and foreign investor. The trade between these new members and the NATO core will increase, as will increase the mutual trade between these countries. Being part of one team they won't represent any real security threat to any other within the team as was so often in the past. Thus the economic links between them won't be endangered in case of major international crisis. Fifth, the new members need strong and clear signal that their fate is linked to that of the West. Remaining outside NATO could have meant for them that they were again left at the mercy of outsider powers, as was the case in 1945. Sixth, right now there is no present external danger for many of the new NATO members. But how can't we be sure that this period of tranquility is something more than a temporary window of opportunity? The European history is full of examples of shorter or longer peaceful periods followed by disastrous wars. If some countries in Europe need special protection, it's easier to be found in East than in West Europe. Thus we see that NATO is still a useful organization both as a military bulwark of the West and as a political forum for supranational coordination. Its role and importance didn't decrease significantly after the Cold War as to give a credit to the argument that it would be better for the Europeans to live without it. New security challenges, including the new terrorist threats, make this organization a fine tool for continental crisis management, although it's not 100% effective. Including in NATO 7 new members will mean enlarging the Western zone of security, will increase the investment attractiveness of Eastern Europe and will move it from the Western periphery toward its core. </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> </span></span>