[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
AC 1

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Value of morality. </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Criterion is preventing harm to individuals. </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">This is the only to respect the equality and unconditionality of human dignity. David Cummiskey, __Kantian Consequentialism__ (Oxford University Press, 1996) p. 145-146 “we must not… to save many” </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">And abiding by side constraints creates irresolvable rights conflicts. David Cummiskey, //Kantian Consequentialism// (Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. Apr. 1990) p. 594-595 “Now according to… any practical guidance” </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Contention 1: Accidental launch poses a threat to life. </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Nuclear weapons systems make accidental launch probable. Bruce G. Blair, PhD, Lachlan Forrow, MD, Ira Helfand, MD, George Lewis, PhD, Theodore Postol, PhD, Victor Sidel, MD, Barry Levy, MD, Herbert Abrams, MD, And Christine Cassel, MD. //Accidental Nuclear War- A Post-Cold War Assessment//. (New England Journal of Medicine 1998) p. 1327 “a world in… a false warning” </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Fallout from a nuclear explosion harms many people. Bruce G. Blair, PhD, Lachlan Forrow, MD, Ira Helfand, MD, George Lewis, PhD, Theodore Postol, PhD, Victor Sidel, MD, Barry Levy, MD, Herbert Abrams, MD, And Christine Cassel, MD. //Accidental Nuclear War- A Post-Cold War Assessment//. (New England Journal of Medicine 1998) p. 1328 “the cloud of… would be likely” </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Contention 2: Affirming prevents nuclear terrorism </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Terrorists seek to achieve nuclear capabilities. Matthew Bunn, //Securing the Bomb 2008// (Nuclear Threat Initiative, November 2008) [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_the_bomb08.pdf%20p.%204-5|http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_the_bomb08.pdf ]] p.4-5“do terrorists want… in the future” </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And many nuclear arsenals are accessible to theft by terrorists. Charles Ferguson and William Potter, __The Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism__ (Center for Nonproliferation Studies, 2004) p. 1-2 “Certain nuclear arms… to al Qaeda” </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Russian nukes are especially susceptible. Matthew Bunn, //Securing the Bomb 2008// (Nuclear Threat Initiative, November 2008) [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_the_bomb08.pdf]] p.7-8 “nuclear security in... without being checked” </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And failure to disarm will increase the number of nuclear weapons states worldwide and increase the probability of nuclear terrorism. </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">Barry M. Blechman, //WHY WE NEED TO ELIMINATE NUCLEAR WEAPONS—AND HOW TO DO IT// from //Elements of a Nuclear Disarmament Treaty,// (Stimson Center, February 2010) [[http://www.stimson.org/nuke/pdf/Chap_1_Blechman_Formatted.pdf]] p. 4 "in short, there... of terrorists grows"</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And many nuclear arsenals are accessible to theft by terrorists. Charles Ferguson and William Potter, __The Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism__ (Center for Nonproliferation Studies, 2004) p.3 “these disturbing developments… of a city” </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And deterrence imposes a risk of harm to individuals. Steven Lee, //The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences// (Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985),) p.554 “Second nuclear deterrence… risk of harm” </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Nuclear weapons increase the risk of conflict. Daniel Geller, //Nuclear Weapons, Deterrence, and Crisis Escalation// (The Journal of Conflict Resolution, Vol. 34, No. 2 (Jun., 1990)) pp. 306-307 “this analysis has… their nuclear rivals” </span>


AC 2
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.5in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black;">Definition of ‘Ought’</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.5in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black;">Oxford English Dictionary, [http://dictionary.oed.com].</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.5in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black;">“With a non-personal subject…but contextually implied</span></span>
<span style="color: black;">V – Governmental Legitimacy</span>
<span style="color: black;">State coercion is bad</span>
John Simmons, “Locke and the Right to Punish,” Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 20, No. 4 (Autumn, 1991), pp. 311-349
“Locke and other philosophers…an uncommitted ‘independent’”
C – Checking Abusive State Policies
1. States cause massive immorality
R.J. Rummel (BA and MA from the University of Hawaii (1959, 1961); Ph.D. in Political Science (Northwestern University, 1963); Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Kappa Phi, Omicron Delta Kappa.; taught at Indiana University (1963), Yale (1964-66), University of Hawaii (1966-1995); now Professor Emeritus of Political Science, University of Hawaii; finalist for 1996 Nobel Peace Prize), Death by Government, 1997.
“In total, during…360 million people”
2. Moral standards check back violation of international norms of conduct.
3. Abuse of power means states lose the right to self governance.
Contention One: Nukes provide a buffer against intervention, allow state abuse to continue unchecked.
In a nuke free world the U.S. has unmatched military power.
Falkenrath, Richard A., Robert D. Newman and Bradley A. Thayer, America’s Achilles’ Heel: Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical Terrorism and Covert Attack, The MIT Press, 1998, page 222.
“In the words…to force withdrawal”
This is empirically confirmed.
Falkenrath, Richard A., Robert D. Newman and Bradley A. Thayer, America’s Achilles’ Heel: Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical Terrorism and Covert Attack, The MIT Press, 1998, pp. 221-222.
“Although Saddam probably…had nuclear weapons”
U.S. will avoid intervention to protect its citizens.
Falkenrath, Richard A., Robert D. Newman and Bradley A. Thayer, America’s Achilles’ Heel: Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical Terrorism and Covert Attack, The MIT Press, 1998, page 224.
“A deterrent strategy…harden their resolve.”
U.S. intervention has empirically solved state abuse.
Government oppression is worse than war.
R. J. Rummel , “Political Systems, Violence, and War,” May, 1988.
“War is not…other mass killings”
Lack of war from deterrence lets violence continue unchecked.
Contention Two: Nukes remove needed checks from decision-making
Nukes cause needless harm
Schelling, Thomas C., Arms and Influence, originally written in 1966, but edited and rereleased in 2008, pp 17-18.
“The threat of…promise of more”
Giving states power to do harm is bad even if they don’t use it.
Nukes are purely destructive.
Schelling, Thomas C., Arms and Influence, originally written in 1966, but edited and rereleased in 2008, pp. 18-19.
“War has become…what was “permanent””
This transforms war from strategic to destructive.
Schelling, Thomas C., Arms and Influence, originally written in 1966, but edited and rereleased in 2008, page 23.
“Something like the…exercises in destruction.”
Arsenals are on hair-trigger alert.
Froomkin, Dan “Obama's New Nuclear Plan Leaves Missiles On Hair Triggers,” Huffington Post, April 7th, 2010.
“President Obama’s new…going terribly wrong.”
Schelling, Thomas C., Arms and Influence, originally written in 1966, but edited and rereleased in 2008, page 20.
“To compress a…once it begins”


AC 3

Ought- M.O.
Moral-relating to right and wrong.
Aff burden is to prove a moral prohibition upon the possession of nukes.
V- Morality

Our intrinsic value derives from rational decision-making. Thomas E. Hill, Jr. “Kantian Constructivism in Ethics.” //Ethics//, Vol. 99, No. 4 (Jul., 1989), pp. 767 <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.jstor.org/|www.jstor.org]]</span>. “Autonomy is a controversial…end in itself.”

Rationality means that people have the ability to reflect upon their actions. Christine Korsgaard [Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Philosophy Director of Graduate Studies] __The Sources of Normativity__ Lecture 3 - “The Authority of Reflection.” , June 28, 1996. [[http://dash.harvard.edu/bitstream/handle/1/3710397/Korsgaard_SourcesNormativity.pdf]], 79.

Harm to others represents a contradiction of reason. Gregory S. Kavka. Moral Paradoxes of Nuclear Weapons (New York: Press Syndicate of the University of Cambridge, 1987) p. 23 www.books.google.com “Let us return…entails having it).”

Individuals have the autonomy to control their own actions. Quinn, Warren S., [Professor of Philosophy at UCLA, 1968-91] “Actions, Intentions, and Consequences: The Doctrine of Doing and Allowing,” //Killing and Letting Die//, 2nd. Ed. (ed. Norcross, A. and Steinbock, B.) New York: Fordham University Press, 1994. (Originally published in //Philosophical Review// 98, no. 3 (July 1989)). pp. 308, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.jstor.org/|www.jstor.org]]</span>
"An object does not belong...in the collective whole."

The standard is preserving the inviolability of persons.

Ends-based systems destroy morality. Frances Myrna Kamm. “Harming Some to Save Others,” //Deontology// (Berlin: Blackwell Publishers, 2003) ed. Stephen Darwall. p. 186."this point is... more other lives"

Consequentialism denies humans their intrinsic worth. Germain Grisez and Russell Shaw, [Flynn Professor of Christian Ethics at Mount Saint Mary’s College, and Columnist for Catholic Herald] //Absolutism and its Consequentialist Critics//, ed. Joram Graf Haber, pub 1994, pp. 26. "One arrives at...measurement, weighing, and balancing."

By not evaluating intent, the ends of any action will eventually deteriorate. Immanuel Kant and Lara Denis. __The Groundwork of the Meta Physics of Morals__. (1785) Google Books, pp. 55. "Intelligence, wit, judgment...been without it."

Contention 1: Possession diminishes the worth of humans.
The ultimate goal of nuclear weapons is deterrence. Committee on International Security and Arms Control and National Academy of Sciences. __The Future of U.S. Nuclear Weapons Policy__ June 13, 1997. Google Books, pp. 4. "In all likelihood...as the result."

Subpoint A is hostage holding
Steven Lee [chairman of the philosophy department at Hobart and William Smith Colleges]. “The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences,”//Ethics//, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence(Apr., 1985), pp. 553 <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.jstor.org/|http://www.jstor.org]]</span>. “It can be found…of hostage holding.”

[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---H]]Hostage holding is immoral because it violates the autonomy of innocents. Steven Lee [chairman of the philosophy department at Hobart and William Smith Colleges]. “The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences,”//Ethics//, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence(Apr., 1985), pp. 554 <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.jstor.org/|http://www.jstor.org]]</span> “Second, nuclear deterrence… risk of harm.”

[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---S]]Subpoint B is retaliation.
[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---A]]A countries’ acceptance to retaliate and kill millions of innocents is still inherently immoral and institutionalizes the violation of rights. Robert P. Churchill [Associate professor of philosophy at George Washington University] “Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue.” Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 469, Nuclear Armament and Disarmament (Sep., 1983), pp. 51 jSTOR “Yet even if…for human survival.”

[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---E]]Even if they strive towards good ends, the intent is still evil. Robert P. Churchill [Associate professor of philosophy at George Washington University] “Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue.” Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 469, Nuclear Armament and Disarmament (Sep., 1983), pp. 52 jSTOR “Yet it might…to be consumed”

Contention 2: Nuclear testing violates the intrinsic worth of individuals.
Nuclear testing has been happening for 60 years.
//War and Public Health// By: Victor Sidel [Distinguished University Professor of Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine] , Barry Levy. Dec. 14, 2007 Google Books, pp. 158-159."During the 60 years...across the world."

[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---T]]Testing results violates the rights off innocents. //War and Public Health// By: Victor Sidel [Distinguished University Professor of Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine] , Barry Levy. Dec. 14, 2007. Google Books, pp. 160 “The primary human… among future generations.”

==Negative== 
NC 1

I value morality.

Maintaining state sovereignty is necessary for any existent or salient moral system.
Brad Roth, State Sovereignty, International Legality, and Moral Disagreement Updated Version of Paper Presented at the Panel on “Questioning the Aspiration to Global Justice” Annual Meeting of the American Political Science Association, September 2, 2005 p. 35-38"the problem of... subjects might choose"

So, states must be able to make their own decisions.
Brad Roth, State Sovereignty, International Legality, and Moral Disagreement Updated Version of Paper Presented at the Panel on “Questioning the Aspiration to Global Justice” Annual Meeting of the American Political Science Association, September 2, 2005 p. 44-45 "fundamental human concerns... internal public order"

Contention: states should be allowed to exercise their sovereignty and be able to choose whether or not to have nukes, so we shouldn't prohibit them from having them

NC 2


<span style="line-height: normal;">[[#September-October-Negative--><b><span style=]]</span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">**Permissibility indicates no moral prohibition.** </span>
Shelly Kagan [Professor of Philosophy at Yale University], The Limits of Morality (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1989), pp. 65-66. 
<span style="line-height: normal;">**“For a given reaction is morally…ground a prohibition.”**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">**Burden: Aff must prove that states are moral actors**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">**Contention 1: States lack intention, which is necessary for moral agency. <span style="color: black;">Lenn Evan Goodman [Professor of Philosophy and Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the Humanities at Vanderbilt University] and Robert B. Talisse [Assistant professor of philosophy at Vanderbilt University]. //Aristotle's Politics Today//. Albany, NY: State University of New York, 2007. </span>__<span style="color: blue;"><span style="color: blue;">[[http://books.google.com/]]</span> “</span>__Having said this… a moral agent.” pg. 82** </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">**Groups cannot possess self-awareness. <span style="color: black;">Lenn Evan Goodman [Professor of Philosophy and Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the Humanities at Vanderbilt University] and Robert B. Talisse [Assistant professor of philosophy at Vanderbilt University]. //Aristotle's Politics Today//. Albany, NY: State University of New York, 2007. </span>__<span style="color: blue;">[[http://books.google.com/]] </span>__<span style="color: black;">“Another way to look… that it won.” pg. 84 </span>**</span>


NC 3

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Value is morality. </span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Standard is minimizing the chance of conventional war. Conventional war has killed over 100 million people in the 20th century alone. Milton Leitenberg, //Deaths in Wars and Conflicts in the 20th Century// (3rd Edition) Cornell University Peace Studies Program, August 2006, p.9 “in presenting the… and 148.5 million”</span>


<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Sole contention: Possession of nuclear weapons decreases the risk of war. Kenneth Waltz, //Nuclear Myths and Political Realities// </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">in The American Political Science Review, Vol. 84, No. 3 (Sep., 1990), </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">p.734 “in conventional competitions… do to another” </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria;">And this is empirically confirmed. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Robert Rauchhaus, //Evaluating the Nuclear Peace: A Quantitative Analysis// in the Journal of Conflict Resolution. Vol. 53, no. 2 (Apr 2009) p. 16 “the results of… possess nuclear weapons”</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Rauchhaus explains his methodology. Robert Rauchhaus, //Evaluating the Nuclear Peace: A Quantitative Analysis// in the Journal of Conflict Resolution. Vol. 53, no. 2 (Apr 2009)</span> p.11-12 "this study uses... of nuclear weapons"

Disarm DA

A) Uniqueness: Terrorists want to get nukes. <span style="font-family: Cambria;">Matthew Bunn, //Securing the Bomb 2008// (Nuclear Threat Initiative, November 2008) [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_the_bomb08.pdf%20p.%204-5|http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_the_bomb08.pdf ]] p.4-5“do terrorists want… in the future”</span>


<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Nukes are secure when they're deployed. Richard Sokolsky, Distinguished Research Fellow at INSS-NDU,Survival, August, p. 142 "a separate issue...significant step forward"</span>


<span style="line-height: normal;">**B) Link: <span style="color: black;">Reprocessing nuclear material (disarming by mixing enriched uranium with other materials) increases the risk of nuclear proliferation to terrorists and rouge states. </span>Dr. Edwin Lyman. [UCS Senior Staff Scientist] “Nuclear Reprocessing: Dangerous, Dirty, and Expensive.” (June 2008). <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.ucsusa.org/nuclear_power/nuclear_power_risk/nuclear_proliferation_and_terrorism/nuclear-reprocessing.html]]</span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">**Link: <span style="color: black;">Terrorism and theft are more likely to occur if weapons are not deployed</span>. Rajesh M. Basrur and Friedrich Steinhäusler [Director, Centre for Global Studies; Professor, Institute of Physics and Biophysics University of Salzburg] “NUCLEAR AND RADIOLOGICAL TERRORISM THREATS FOR INDIA: RISK POTENTIAL AND COUNTERMEASURES.” //Journal of Physical Security//, Vol. 1 no. 1, Paper 3, Fall 2004 “Unassembled weapons keep…but only relatively.” p. 4-5**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">**<span style="color: black;">C) Impact: Nuclear terrorism is the biggest impact because countries don’t know who to retaliate against. </span>****Dennis Ray Morgan [Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea] “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race.” //Futures,// Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009** <span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: x-small;">p.683-693</span> **"in a remarkable... of strategic weapons"**</span>






=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 

__**AC 1**__

Ought definition. OED online [[http://www.oed.com/|www.oed.com]] “as a present… him, them, etc”
Not definition. OED online. [[http://www.oed.com/|www.oed.com]] “denotes contrast or… or without and”
Criminal justice definition. American heritage dictionary online, “criminal justice” [[http://www.thefreedictionary.com/criminal+justice]] “the system of... with criminal offenses”

<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0in;">Drug abuse definition. National Association for Public Health Policy. //A Public Health Approach to Mitigating the Negative Consequences of Illicit Drug Abuse//. //(//Journal of Public Health Policy. Vol 20: No 3: 1999) “all of the… use of drugs”</span>
Definition of public health. Jefferson Fish, __Drugs and society: U.S. public policy__ (Maryland: Rowland & Littlefield, 2006) p. 1 “public health approaches… small as possible.”
Value of morality.
Individuals must act in free will to be morally culpable. Richard C. Boldt //The Construction of Responsibility in the Criminal Law.// (University of Pennsylvania Law Review, Vol. 140, No. 6. June 1992) “wright explains that… illness is precluded”
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Standard of properly treating moral blameworthiness.</span>
This is also the only means by which we can ensure the rationality of any sort of punishment theory. Gary Watson, //Free Agency// (The Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 72, No. 8 (Apr. 24, 1975)), pp. 205-220. “the authors make… could reasonably reject”
Contention 1: addicts don’t have free will
Addiction is common to all drugs. Alan Leshner, //Addiction is a Brain Disease, and it Matters// (Science, New Series, Vol. 278, No. 5335. (Oct. 3, 1997), pp. 45-47) “although each drug…affect this circuit.”
The brain reinforces addiction such that the individual is forced to attempt to continually obtain the addictive substance. David Gastfriend, //Physician Substance Abuse and Recovery: What Does it Mean for Physicians—and Everyone Else//, 293 JAMA 1513, 1514 (2005) “addiction is a… of self-preservation”
Addiction causes prolonged problems. Alan Leshner, //Addiction is a Brain Disease, and it Matters// (Science, New Series, Vol. 278, No. 5335. (Oct. 3, 1997), pp. 45-47). “not only does… underlying all addictions”
The criminal justice system stigmatizes drug users. Stigmatization increases the harms of drug use and makes it more difficult for them to get help. Alan Leshner, //Addiction is a Brain Disease, and it Matters// (Science, New Series, Vol. 278, No. 5335. (Oct. 3, 1997), pp. 45-47) “part of the… and drug users”
Contention 2: Public health methods are effective in helping addicts and abusers recover.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Addiction is treatable as an illness.</span> Richard Boldt, //The Construction of Responsibility in the Criminal Law.// (University of Pennsylvania Law Review, Vol. 140, No. 6. June 1992). “The literature presents… of the substance.”
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">The nature of the problem with substance abuse and addiction mandates that we act with the goal of restoring the health of drug abusing individuals. Alan Leshner, //Addiction is a Brain Disease, and it Matters// (Science, New Series, Vol. 278, No. 5335. (Oct. 3, 1997), pp. 45-47) “at an even…of the solution”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">And the nature of the issue mandates a response with the same characteristics of that nature. Alan Leshner, //Addiction is a Brain Disease, and it Matters// (Science, New Series, Vol. 278, No. 5335. (Oct. 3, 1997), pp. 45-47) “the implications are… and alzheimer’s disease.</span>

__**AC 2**__

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Definitions:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ought: Oxford English Dictionary. Dictionary.oed.com. “Bound or under moral obligation.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Public health: Jefferson Fish. “Jefferson Fish, Drugs and society: U.S. public policy (Maryland: Rowland & Littlefield, 2006) p. 1. “Public health approaches…small as possible.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Criminal justice: American Heritage Dictionary, [[http://www.thefreedictionary.com/criminal+justice]]. “The system of…with criminal offenses.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Drug abuse: Vermont Department of Corrections. [[http://www.doc.state.vt.us/about/policies/glossary_d]]. “The use of…self-supporting individual.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Value is morality**. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Punishment is designed to impose blame on an agent who freely chose to violate moral norms. Richard Boltd. “The Construction of Responsibility in the Criminal Law.” University of Pennsylvania Law Review. Vol. 140, No. 6. June 1992. “Wright explains that…illness is precluded.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Punishing people for actions they didn’t choose is bad for the justice system </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1) Desert relies on choice </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2) Deterrent relies on choice </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Law loses legitimacy if it can’t be defended to those it controls. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Gary Watson [Professor Watson works in Moral and Political Philosophy], “Free Agency” The Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 72, No. 8 (Apr. 24, 1975), pp. 205-220. “The authors make…could reasonably reject.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The **aff burden is to show that abusers of illegal drugs are not morally culpable for their actions, and thus should not be subjected to the criminal justice system.** </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wrongful punishment stigmatizes people on factors outside of control, precluding attempts to solve problem. Alan Leshner, Addiction is a Brain Disease, and it Matters (Science, New Series, Vol. 278, No. 5335. (Oct. 3, 1997), pp. 45-47). “Part of the…and drug users. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Contention 1:** Drug addiction is external to rational control and cannot be treated as a criminal issue. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Initial use results from factors outside of their control. United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, From coercion to cohesion, UN, October 2009. Pg 2-3. “New scientific findings…and psychologically vulnerable.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The developed of drug addiction is rooted in genetic traits outside the control of rational agents. Redonna K. Chandler, Bennett W. Fletcher, and Nora D. Volkow [Chandler - Services Research Branch, National Institute of Drug Abuse, Ph.D.; Fletcher - Ph.D., National Institute on Drug Abuse; Volkow - MD]. Treating Drug Abuse and Addiction in the Criminal Justice System: Improving Public Health and Safety. Journal of the American Medical Association. 2009. “Addiction is a…making adaptive decisions.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Drug abuse physically damages the central nervous system. Addiction impairs rationality so agents aren’t accountable for their actions. The illegality isn’t an intentional subversion of the law. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Contention 2:** Treating drug use in the criminal justice system imposes harms on those who are causally detached from the decision to use drugs. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Drug-related arrests punish pregnant women’s unborn children. Ehrlich and Paltrow. “Jailing Pregnant Women Raises Health Risks,” WeNews commentators, Wednesday, September 20, 2006. “Patients do not…under these circumstances.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Public health approaches offer solutions to treat addiction. Alan Leshner, Addiction is a Brain Disease, and it Matters (Science, New Series, Vol. 278, No. 5335. (Oct. 3, 1997), pp. 45-47). “At an even…of the illness.</span>



==Negative== 

__**NC 1**__

Value of governmental legitimacy
Standard of implementing effective drug policy
A. CP text: <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 18px;">States maintain the current legal status of drug-related offenses and implement a testing-and-sanctions policy on probationers with those offenses.</span>
Kleiman describes the policy. Mark Kleiman [School of Public Affairs, UCLA], //When Brute Force Fails: Strategic Thinking for Crime Control// (March 31, 2005) [[http://www.spa.ucla.edu/faculty/kleiman/WHEN%20BRUTE%20FORCE%20FAILS.pdf]] “that suggests an… only random testing”
B. competition
1. not shows contrast or opposition. Not definition. OED online. [[http://www.oed.com/|www.oed.com]] “denotes contrast or… or without and”
2. I am not consistent with the definition of a public health approach. Definition of public health approach. Jefferson Fish, __Drugs and society: U.S. public policy__ (Maryland: Rowland & Littlefield, 2006) p. 1 “public health approaches… small as possible.”
3. My advocacy is within the CJ system
C. Net benefits
A testing and sanctions program would be effective in reducing drug use. Mark Kleiman [School of Public Affairs, UCLA], //When Brute Force Fails: Strategic Thinking for Crime Control// (March 31, 2005) [[http://www.spa.ucla.edu/faculty/kleiman/WHEN%20BRUTE%20FORCE%20FAILS.pdf]] “if successful nationwide… and associated problems”
And reducing illegal drug use among probationers reduces the harms of drug markets. Mark Kleiman [School of Public Affairs, UCLA], //When Brute Force Fails: Strategic Thinking for Crime Control// (March 31, 2005) [[http://www.spa.ucla.edu/faculty/kleiman/WHEN%20BRUTE%20FORCE%20FAILS.pdf]] “many probationers are… lowering crime rates”


__**NC 2**__

Thesis

Illegal drug abuse creates an imbalance between the criminal and others, and thus merits punishment.

Cites

Wesley Cragg. //The Practice of Punishment: Towards a Theory of Restorative Justice.// Routledge, 1992.

Kathleen Dean Moore. //Pardons: Justice, Mercy, and the Public Interest//. Oxford UP, 1989.

Alan Brudner. “In Defense of Retributivism.” //Retributivism and its Critics: Papers of the Special Nordic Conference//. Wesley Cragg, ed. Franz Steiner Verlag Stuttgart, 1990.

Herbert Kleber and Joseph A. Califano Jr., //Legalization: Panacea or Pandora's Box?// //World & I//. Jan. 2006: n.p. //SIRS Researcher.// Web. 04 Nov 2010

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Steven P Garvey, //Restorative Justice, Punishment, and Atonement// (Utah Law Review, 2003)</span>



__**Harm reduction T**__

Interpretation: Merriam webster medical dictionarydefines public health. [[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/public+health]] "the art and... and social science"

B. violation: harms reduction doesn't seek to prevent drug abuse. <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 17px;">Jefferson Fish, //CONFERENCE: IS OUR DRUG POLICY EFFECTIVE? ARE THERE ALTERNATIVES?// October, 2000 (28 Fordham Urban Law Journal 3)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 17px;">C. Standards</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 17px;">Precision</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 17px;">Limits</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 17px;">Ground</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 17px;">D. Fairness</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 17px;">Jurisdiction</span>

__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 17px;">Abuse T</span>**__

A. Interpretation: Definition of drug abuse. Vermont depatrment of corrections. http://www.doc.state.vt.us/about/policies/glossary_d "the use of... self supporting individuals"

B. Violation: aff policy doesn't change our approach to ue

C. Standards
Definitional accuracy (+jurisdiction)
Limits

D. voter
Fairness

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 

Definition of juvenile
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Rich Rafferty. “What is the legal definition of a minor, child or juvenile?” [[http://www.fair-debt-collection.com/site-overview.html]] </span>

Definition of violent felony
United States v. Thrower, 2009 U.S. App. LEXIS 22484, 4-5 (2d Cir. N.Y. Oct. 14, 2009) [[http://definitions.uslegal.com/v/violent-felony/]] (ELIPSES IN ORIGINAL)

Definition of treat
http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/treat

Definition of ought
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/ought]]</span>

Definition of as
oed.com
presume people are equal


Punishment ensures that we value rights
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span></span> Jaime Malamud Goti [Former Senior Presidential Adviser; MacArthur Peace Fellow and Harry-Frank Guggenheim Scholar; coordinated the Program on Applied Ethics at the University of Arkansas. He is currently teaching ethics at the Universidad de San Andres] “Equality, Punishment, and Self-Respect.” //Buffalo// //Criminal Law Review//, Vol. 5:497. [[http://wings.buffalo.edu/law/bclc/bclrarticles/5(2)/Malamud-Goti.pdf]] (2002). "stipulatively, a rights-based... of our rights"

We have to punish people equally

Punishment restores moral balance

<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span></span></span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> Wesley Cragg. The Practice of Punishment: Towards a Theory of Restorative Justice. Routledge, 1992. Page 11. Google Books. "inevitably, failure to... of our rights"</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Intention isn't relevant</span>

subpoint a: kids and adults who commit violent felonies cause the same harm

<span style="line-height: 14px;">subpoint b: neurological differences don't apply to criminal behavior</span>

<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span></span></span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> Stephen J. Morse [Ferdinand Wakeman Hubbell Professor of Law; Professor of Psychology and Law in Psychiatry at UPenn Law School]. "Delinquency and Desert." //Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science//, Vol. 564, (Jul., 1999), pp. 56-80 http://www.jstor.org/stable/1048778 "Many able scholars... to such offenses"</span>

these differences vary with age
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 9pt;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[1]</span></span></span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;"> Anna Louise Simpson. “Rehabilitation as the Justification of a Separate Juvenile Justice System,” //California Law Review//, Vol. 64, No. 4 (Jul., 1976), pp. 984-1017 http://www.jstor.org/stable/3479922 "developmental sp</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">ecialists stress... the same level."</span>

<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span></span> Christine Chamberlin, //Not Kids Anymore: A Need for Punishment and Deterrence in the Juvenile Justice System//, 42 B.C.L. Rev. 391 (2001), http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol42/iss2/4

<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span></span> Russell K. van Vleet “The Attack on Juvenile Justice.”//Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science//, Vol. 564, Will theJuvenile Court System Survive? (Jul., 1999), pp. 203-214/www.jstor.org/stable/1048785

<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span></span> Barry Krisberg [Berkeley Law's Center for Criminal Justice in January, a distinguished senior fellow and lecturer-in-residence; served as president of the National Council on Crime and Delinquency for more than 25 years] qtd. in interview by Cathy Cockrell, “Downsizing the Prison-Industrial Complex.” May 2010. [[http://www.californiaprogressreport.com/site/?q=node/7726]]

==Negative== 

<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span></span> Stephen J. Morse. “Delinquency and Desert.” //Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science// 564 (Jul., 1999), 56-80. http://www.jstor.org/stable/1048778.
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[1]</span></span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Less Guilty by Reason of Adolescence: //Developmental Immaturity, Diminished Responsibility,// //and the Juvenile Death Penalty// BY//:// Laurence Steinberg //Temple University,// Elizabeth S. Scott //University of Virginia School of Law.// December 2003, American Psychologist </span>
----

__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">The Sources of Normativity</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> Lecture 3 - “The Authority of Reflection.” Christine Korsgaard [<span class="title">Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Philosophy Director of Graduate Studies]</span>, June 28, 1996. </span>

Irrationality and the Criminal SanctionAuthor(s): Michael Edmund O'Neill [<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Associate Professor of Law, George Mason University] </span>Source: Supreme Court Economic Review, Vol. 12 (2004), pp. 139-180Published by: The University of Chicago Press. Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3655320]].

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Less Guilty by Reason of Adolescence: //Developmental Immaturity, Diminished Responsibility,// //and the Juvenile Death Penalty// BY//:// Laurence Steinberg //Temple University,// Elizabeth S. Scott //University of Virginia School of Law.// December 2003, American Psychologist </span>

Oliver R. Goodenough and Kristin Prehn “A Neuroscientific Approach to Normative Judgment in Law and Justice.” //Philosophical Transactions: Biological Sciences//, Vol. 359, No. 1451, Law and the Brain(Nov. 29, 2004), pp. 1709-1726. The Royal Society. [[http://www.jstor.org/|www.jstor.org]]

Ellen Leibenluft, M. Ida Gobbini, Tara Harrison, and James V. Haxby [Pediatrics and Developmental Neuropsychiatry Branch (EL, TH) and Laboratory of Brain and Cognition (MIG, JVH), National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health and Human Services, Bethesda, Maryland.] “Mothers’ Neural Activation in Response to Pictures of Their Children and Other Children.” //Biological Psychiatry.// May 21, 2004. [[http://legacy.oise.utoronto.ca/research/brainwaves/phpwebsite/files/uplink/Liebenluft04.pdf]]. p. 230-231

<span style="color: black;">Aaron Kupchik, Arizona State University. </span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 11.0pt;">Prosecuting Adolescents in Criminal Courts: Criminal or Juvenile Justice?</span>//<span style="color: black;"> http://www.jstor.org/stable/3648861Accessed: 10/12/2010 14:32. August 2003. p. 448</span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">[1]</span></span>Edwin M. Lemert. “Juvenile Justice Italian Style,” //Law & Society Review//, Vol. 20, No. 4 (1986), pp. 509-544Published by: Blackwell Publishing; jstor.org

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]