[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==__**COIN 1AC**__== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention One: Inherency </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama’s timetable for withdrawal is only tentative - Petraeus is laying the groundwork for an escalation of the war in Afghanistan – despite rising opposition </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rothschild 8/16/10</span>** (Matthew, //editor in chief- Progressive Magazine//, [[http://www.progressive.org/wx081610.html]])

<span style="color: black;">General David </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Petraeus is in the midst……. to come around again next July</span></span>**<span style="color: black;">. </span>**


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">COIN is doomed to fail—insurgency and instability are inevitable for as long as we keep up the stratagey</span>**.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Raham 8/12</span></span> (Dr S.M. Rahman is Secretary General FRIENDS, a Think Tank established by General Mirza Aslam Beg in Rawalpindi [[http://www.opinion-maker.org/2010/08/counter-insurgency-using-power-or-prudence/|Counter-Insurgency (COIN) Using Power or Prudence?]]
[[http://www.opinion-maker.org/2010/08/counter-insurgency-using-power-or-prudence/Donie|http://www.opinion-maker.org/2010/08/counter-insurgency-using-power-or-prudence///Donie]])

<span class="Emphasis2">Terrorism abhors power…</span> Nazis’ holocaust against the Jews.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Therefore we offer the following plan: </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its military presence engaged in counterinsurgency operations in Afghanistan.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> We’ll Clarify. </span>


Contention Two: The Empire might not strike back
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">COIN will fail no mater what we do, the government has no credibility, this assures we will LOSE THE WAR. COIN commits the US to Afghanistan for 40 more years and independantly cripples readiness</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Hirsh 6/24</span></span> (Michael is the former Foreign Editor and chief diplomatic correspondent for //Newsweek//. He is currently a senior editor in the magazine's Washington bureau. “Replacing McChrystal Doesn’t Change Anything”
[[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/06/24/replacing-mcchrystal-doesn-t-change-anything.html/Donnie|http://www.newsweek.com/2010/06/24/replacing-mcchrystal-doesn-t-change-anything.html//Donnie]])

By replacing a general who was universally criticized…. has atrophied over the past 6 years.”


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">COIN cripples US hegemony—it over reaches our military and prepares us for wars we won’t fight, devestating readiness.</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Cohen 9</span></span> ( Michael, was a Senior Research Fellow at the New America Foundation and ran the Privatization of Foreign Policy Initiative, which examined the growing influence and impact of non-state actors in U.S. foreign policy. “<span style="color: black;"><span style="color: black;">[[http://enduringamerica.com/2009/04/02/michael-cohen-on-the-trouble-with-counter-insurgency/|Michael Cohen on The Trouble with Counter-Insurgency]]</span>”</span>
April 4. <span style="color: black;"><span style="color: black;">[[http://enduringamerica.com/2009/04/02/michael-cohen-on-the-trouble-with-counter-insurgency/Donnie|http://enduringamerica.com/2009/04/02/michael-cohen-on-the-trouble-with-counter-insurgency///Donnie]]</span>)</span>

As I’ve written before….. not a realistic or easily applicable military doctrine.


The risks to U.S. power from withdrawal are a myth - a continued heavy troop presence and protracted conflict in Afghanistan uniquely cripples U.S. power projection
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Innocent and Carpenter 09</span>** (Malou <span class="cite">Innocent</span> is a foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan; <span class="cite">and </span>Ted Galen <span class="cite">Carpenter is </span>vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato, Cato Institute 200<span class="cite">9</span> – available at: [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/19645403/Escaping-the-quotGraveyard-of-Empiresquot-A-Strategy-to-Exit-Afghanistan-Cato-White-Paper]]).

<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode America’s Global Status…. undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal. </span></span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We control uniqueness: U.S. presence in Afghanistan is unsustainable and fuels resentment at home and abroad while crippling the economy </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Petras 6/16</span>** (Prof. James Petras, of Sociology at Binghamton University June 16, 2010, Afghanistan: The Longest Lost War,[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=19758//adam]]

<span style="color: black;">Despite almost a decade of warfare… decade long destructive occupation. </span>


Escalating the conflict in Afghanistan results in massive military overstretch and cripples the economy—kills US heg
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Engelhardt 2010</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Tom, fellow at The Nation Institute, Teaching Fellow at the Graduate School of Journalism @ UC Berkeley, “Obama Starting to Sound Like Bush,” April 1, Mother Jones, </span>[[http://www.motherjones.com/mojo/2010/04/obama-sounds-like-bush/]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> //__Italics in original__//] </span>

Starting with that bomber’s jacket….<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">“folly” doesn’t come to mind, what does?</span> </span>


[[#_Toc270467640]]
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne 2009</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Christopher, Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and Nat'l Security at the George H.W. Bush School of Gov't and Public Service @ Texas A&M U, "The Waning of U.S. Hegemony -- Myth or Reality?" International Security, Volume 34, Number 1, Summer, MUSE] </span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">U.S. strategic retrenchment would…. hegemony overthrown by a similar process.</span> </span>


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Readiness is key to heg—decline causes other powers to challenge the US</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Spencer 2k </span></span>(Jack , is the Research Fellow in Nuclear Energy Policy at The Heritage Foundation's Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies. “The Facts About Military Readiness” Sep. 15
[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2000/09/bg1394-the-facts-about-military-readiness/Donnie|http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2000/09/bg1394-the-facts-about-military-readiness//Donnie]])

<span class="underline">Military readiness is vital… interest, thereby </span><span class="Emphasis2">preserving peace</span>.


Ultimately, U.S. primacy is critical to preventing great power wars and maintaining world peace
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 2006 </span></span>[Bradley A., Assoc. Prof. Defense and Strategic Studies @ Mo. State U, “In Defense of Primacy,” in The National Interest, Nov/Dec, Proquest]

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability…. war's worst form: great power wars</span></span>.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention three: Regional Stability </span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A heavy troop presence in Afghanistan is the key destabilizing factor in the region it spills over to Pakistan </span></span>
Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at Cato, ’09 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Malou Innocent, “Afghanistan = Bottomless Pit of Massive Social Engineering”, 9/2/09, [[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/02/afghanistan-bottomless-pit-of-massive-social-engineering]]) </span>

Obsidian Wings echoes my frustrations…. U.S. strategic ambitions in moralistic values.


Independent studies prove- counter-insurgency efforts strengthen the Taliban and incite terrorist activity

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cortright 09</span></span> (David Cortright, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, OCTOBER 19, 2009, “No Easy Way Out”, [[http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=11917]] | )</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">War is an inappropriate instrument… kill Americans and their supporters.</span> </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pursuing the centralization of power in Afghanistan is flawed and results in ethnic violence and extremism </span>**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheragh</span></span>, March 2nd <span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009,</span></span> “<span class="ssl0">Afghan paper highlights need for </span><span class="hit">decentralization</span><span class="ssl0"> of power”, BBC News, Lexis-Nexis </span></span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The effort for centralization of power….</span></span> ethnicities would get more vulnerable.


U.S. presence only serves to legitimize and fuel the Pashtun insurgency - spilling over into Pakistan and destabilizing the region
<span style="color: black;">Matthew **Hoh, 2009,** (former State departmart offical in Afghanistan, and former US marine, </span>[[http://www.jotmideast.com/2009/10/afghanistan-text-of-resignation-letter.html]])

This fall will mark the eighth year…. <span style="color: black;">for such success and victory. </span>


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Increasing troop levels will inflame extremism, solidify Pashtun resistance and risk a complete collapse of the government in Pakistan</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Kristof 09</span></span> - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a columnist for The Times since 2001, is a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner (Nicholas D., 9/6, “The Afghanistan Abyss,” New York Times, </span>[[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/09/06/opinion/06kristof.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

President Obama has already dispatched….. others who also know Afghanistan well.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pakistan instabiltiy causes India to launc a pre-emptive nuclear strike on Pakistan </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ricks 2001</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thomas Ricks is the author of Fiasco: The American Military Adventure in Iraq, 2003-05, which was a no. 1 New York Times bestseller and a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2007. He is special military correspondent for The Washington Post, senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a contributing editor for Foreign Policy magazine. Washington Post – October 21, 2001 – [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer]] </span>

The prospect of Pakistan being taken…. Gardiner, an expert on strategic games.


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">An Indo- Pak war would rapidly escalate with devastating consequences - it is the most likely and most severe nuclear war scenario in the current geopolitical climate—causes extinction</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Robock and Toon 2010</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years.. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado.[1] He received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 2010 Scientific American Magazine – [[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war]] </span>

Nuclear bombs dropped on cities…. declines would be greatest in the tropics.


Contention four is the flip side of the COIN
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The current mission is critically flawed - terrorism is inevitable – only withdrawal reduces recruiting and the incentive for large scale attacks </span>**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hornberger 09</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (</span>Jacob, Founder and president of The Future of Freedom Foundation, 2/9, “Immediately Withdraw from Afghanistan Too”, [[http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-02-09.asp]])

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">“But the terrorists will follow us….</span></span> unconnected to terrorism in Afghanistan.


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Phased withdrawal solves all their turns—CT is key to overall stability in the region</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Stewart 09</span></span> (professor at the Harvard Kennedy school of government, 09, a when testifying at congress, [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan]]//adam )//

//<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The greatest risk of our inflated…. long-term, less will be more. </span></span>//


//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Counterterrorism no links all of your turns- your authors will mistakenly perceive CT as withdrawal, but that’s backwards </span></span>//
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nelson 9</span></span>//<span style="font-style: normal;"> ( Rick Nelson is a senior fellow in the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C “</span>//The Other Side of the COIN” October 1 [[http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin/Donnie|http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin//Donnie]])//

//**<span style="font-weight: normal;">Q2: So how should the United States….</span>** <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">any “all-in” approach would entail. </span></span>//



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**COIN is doomed—ethic backlash and history assure the US fail and leave no mater what** </span>
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hader 7/28/10 </span>** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Leon T., </span>**//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia. He is the author of </span>//[[http://www.catostore.org/index.asp?fa=ProductDetails&pid=1441262|Sandstorm: Policy Failure in the Middle East]]//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, Cato Institute, </span>//[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011]]**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>**//
//<span style="color: black;">But the COIN strategy that…. another for many years to come.</span>//


==<span style="color: black;">2AC AT- ASPEC</span>== 
1. We meet – obviously we defend congressional action based on our plan- they control the budget.
//2. Over-specification is worse – we will need to start defending particular congress people’s votes and veto-override mechanisms which will make it impossible for the affirmative to win//
//3. No abuse – we are not no-linking your politics disadvantages by claiming the plan would not require political capital expenditure in the congress or would not be pinned on the president – our politics non-unique argument hinges only on the fact that health care is being debated in the congress in the status quo – that’s not a-spec-related abuse//
//4. 2AC specification means this isn’t a voting issue – you should have asked us before the debate or during the 1AC cross-examination – in either case we would have told you we defended congressional action//
//5. No ground loss – you don’t have any solvency advocates for any other agent counterplans which means had you been able to run a counterplan it would have been independently unfair and anti-educational//
//6. No education or solvency-deficit impact – even is 90% of policy is about implementation, that doesn’t mean 90% of it is about the// agent //of implementation – we can still defend our advantages – they must articulate a specific scenario for loss of solvency or education//


==//2AC AT- Security K//== 
//1. Our interpretation is that the negative must defend the status quo or a government level policy option//
//A. Either they use Utopian fiat or the K can’t solve – they can never win that the judge acting alone will be able to deconstruct security logic – either we win on theory or on the solvency takeout because we can’t garner offense off of utopian alternatives.//
//B. Uniqueness or a policy-level alternative solves all their offense – if they could prove that their alternative was coming in the status quo, or would result from a reciprocally structured government action, they could run their kritik//
//C. Floating PICs steal all aff offense- we cannot impact turn alternatives because they can just wish away the truth of our impact turn as well, and we can’t use our advantages against the alt.//
//2. Perm- do the plan and all non-competitive parts of the alt.//
//Perm solves://
//A. We don’t have to defend our reps—//
//First, they were not in the plan text, reps k’s are infinitly regressive because every word in our aff can be kritiked—plan focus is the ONLY way to limit the number of arguments read against the aff//
//Also, judge choice is a better interpretation—if they judge thinks that any of our reps were ok they should vote aff, any reason is a good reason//
//B. discourse is not permanent—what we say is not unchangeable, people can apologize when they say something bad, we should be able to too//
//C. Case is a net benefit to the perm—the k cant remedy the 1AC because it doesn’t end COIN, only we solve extinction from indo/pak war and endless wars from heg decline.//

//<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. Threats are real and perceiving them is key to solving conflict- every impact should be weighed on an inaction VS. action basis.</span></span>//
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harvard Nuclear Study Group 83 </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">[Living with Nuclear Weapons, p.16-7</span></span>//STRONG] 
When President John F. Kennedy was shown irrefutable evidence of the Soviet missile emplacement – U-2 photographs of the missile bases in Cube – he and his advisors discussed the matter for six days before deciding on an American response to the challenge<span class="underline">. The decision, to place a naval blockade around the island, was not a risk-free response.</span> This, Kennedy honestly admitted to the nation the night of October 22, 1962: My fellow citizens, <span class="underline">let no one doubt this is a difficult and dangerous effort on which we have set out. No one can foresee precisely what course it will take… But the great danger of all would be to do nothing.</span> Why did the president believe that “to do nothing” about the missiles in Cuba would be an even greater danger than accepting the “difficult and dangerous” course of <span class="underline">the blockade? He accepted some risk of war in the long run, by discouraging future Soviet aggressive behavior. Inaction might have led to an even more dangerous future.</span> This the president also explained that night in his address to the nation: <span class="underline">[This] sudden, clandestine decision to station weapons</span> for the first time outside Soviet soil __– is a <span class="underline">deliberate provocative and unjustified change in the status quo which cannot be accepted by this country if our courage</span>__ and our commitments __are ever to be trusted__ by either friend or foe. The 1930’s taught us a clear lesson__: <span class="underline">Aggressive conduct, if allowed to grow unchecked and unchallenged, ultimately leads to war. The American government managed the 1962 crisis with skill and restraint – offering a </span>__compromise to the Soviets and giving them sufficient time to call back their missile-laden ships, for example <span class="underline">– and the missiles were withdrawn</span> from Cuba. The president carefully supervised American military actions to ensure that his orders were not misunderstood. He did not push his success too far or ignore the real risks of war. The point here is not, to make the blockade a model for American action in the future: different circumstances may call for different policies. Rather <span class="underline">the point is to underline the persistence of risk in international affairs.</span> Every proposed response to the Soviet action – doing nothing, enforcing the blockade, or invading Cuba – entailed some risk of nuclear war. <span class="underline">Kennedy’s task</span> __–__ and we think his success __– <span class="underline">was to weigh accurately the risks entailed in each course and decide on policy accordingly</span>.__
4. Self-fulfilling prophecy is backwards – failure to express our fears causes them to occur
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Macy1995 [</span></span>Joanna, General Systems Scholar and Deep Ecologist, Ecopsychology//STRONG]//
//<span class="underline">There is also the superstition that negative thoughts are self-fulfilling. This is of a piece with the notion,</span> popular in New Age circles, that we create our own reality <span class="underline">I have had people tell me that “to speak of catastrophe will just make it more likely to happen.” Actually, the contrary is nearer to the truth. Psychoanalytic theory and personal experience show us that it is precisely what we repress that eludes our conscious control and tends to erupt into behavior. </span>As Carl Jung observed, <span class="underline">“When an inner situation is not made conscious, it happens outside as fate.”</span> But ironically, in our current situation, the person who gives warning of a likely ecological holocaust is often made to feel guilty of contributing to that very fate.//
//5. Alt can’t solve- changing our discourse doesn’t eliminate security threats.//
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Copeland, 00 </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">(Dale, professor of government at University of Virginia, International Security 25:2, Fall 2000, </span></span>//STRONG) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the road ahead for Wendt’s neoconstructivism is still long, Social Theory of International Politics provides a solid constructivist vehicle for travel-ing it. The book allows scholars to differentiate clearly between truly material and ideational explanations, and between accounts that emphasize the role of states as actors and those that incorporate transnational forces and divisions within polities. It has reinforced the importance of diplomacy as a tool for re-ducing high levels of misunderstanding that can impede cooperation. Yet </span><span class="underline">by bracketing off domestic processes, Wendt has overlooked the irony of constructivism: that the mutability of human ideational structures at the domestic level reinforces leaders’ great uncertainty about future intentions at the interstate level. The security dilemma, with all its implications, is real and pervasive. It cannot be talked away through better discursive practices. It must be faced. </span>

==<span class="underline">2AC AT- Schmitt K</span>== 
Perm: do the plan and all non competitive parts of the alt. 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alt will never work—on one will listen to it </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scheppele 04</span></span> (Kim Lane Scheppele, John J. O'Brien Professor of Comparative Law and Professor of Sociology at University of Pennsylvania, 6 U. Pa. J. Const. L. 1001, Lexis Nexus, May 2004)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this Article, I have tried to explain why the logic of</span> __Schmitt's analyses__ __no longer work__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as a practical matter </span>__to justify states of exception, even__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> when it is clear to the international community that something fundamental has changed in the world system </span>__since 9/11. The institutional__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">elaboration of a new</span> __international system__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that has occurred since Schmitt's time</span> __make his ideas seem all the more dangerous, and yet all the more dated. There are__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">simply</span> __fewer states__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the world </span>__willing to tolerate__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">either</span> __Schmitt's__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">conception of</span> __politics or his conception of__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the defining qualities of</span> __sovereignty.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Schmitt's philosophy has, in short, been met with a different sociology.</span> __For his ideas to be__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">either persuasive or</span> __effective,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> they must be more than internally coherent or even plausible; </span>__they must be__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">loosed in a context</span> __in which they can win against other competing ideas.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Precisely</span> __because of the horrors of the twentieth century,__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">much of</span> __the international community__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that</span> __has entrenched both democracy and the rule of law has turned away from__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">these extra-legal justifications for</span> __states of exception__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Instead, such states have attempted to embed exceptionality as an instance of the normal, and not as a repudiation of the [*1083] possibility of normality. Only the United States, with its eighteenth-century constitution and Cold War legacy of exceptionalism, seems to be soldiering on in this new legal space of conflict unaware that the defining aspect of the new sovereignty is that even the new sovereign is bound by rules.</span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Libearal ideology is key to heg—Schmitt rejects that </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nash 06</span></span> (William Nash, <span style="color: black;">Retired U.S. Army Major General who commanded the 1st Armored Division of the United States Army,</span> “The ICC and the Deployment of U.S. Armed Forces”, [[http://www.amacad.org/publications/icc9.aspx]], 2006) 

Thus U.S. military power is more effectively employed when its actions are endorsed as consistent with international norms and broadly shared objectives and when U.S. forces act in coalition and in conjunction with nations and institutions that undertake political, social, and economic efforts. __Securing international support__, while not determining, __has become increasingly important for advancing U.S. security interests__**.** The overwhelming vote against the U.S. proposal to allow states to shelter their nationals form the ICC shows that __most nations, including some of the strongest allies of the United States, recoil at what they perceive as an open display of U.S. exceptionalism. This perception is dangerous__**.** Over the long term, __it undermines the capacity of the United States to lead.__ The ICC unfortunately is not the only issue fueling this perception. But because it goes to the heart of accountability international norms and because it is the first new international security institution in decades, it is a particularly resonant issue by which to measure U.S. attitude toward global leadership. This places a heavy burden on opponents of the ICC to demonstrate why it is not in U.S. interests to join the Court. The United States does not conduct coalition operations because it could not achieve its military objectives without the assistance of other nations. Put bluntly, the United States can accomplish virtually any strictly military task it is ordered to carry out. Rather, the United States works in partnership with others to accomplish a variety of objectives-and political objectives are at the forefront. Leading coalitions can be trying, time-consuming, and resource intensive. The associated costs and uncertainties cannot be predicted. But __leadership of the U__nited __S__tates, __and its ability to sustain its credibility and effectiveness as a leader in the twenty-first century, hinges__ in no small part __on its willingness to lead with and through other nations__. In addition, the ICC is the first security-related international institution since the United Nations. U.S. absence from the Court would be a significant and supremely isolating act. It will underscore U.S. ambivalence about joining in collective efforts and institutions to enhance security, an attitude that, however reasonably presented, weakens the claim of the United States to international leadership. Other nations increasingly question the intentions of a leading power that appears willing to lead exclusively on its own terms. __The U__nited __S__tates __loses leverage and credibility by fueling impressions that its cooperation in international politics requires an exemption from the rules.__ From a purely pragmatic standpoint, the United States can do more to advance national interests (and the interests of U.S. servicemembers) by signing the Treaty than it could by continuing to -oppose the ICC. To no small degree, the Court's efficacy and impact will hinge on the appointment of capable, fair, and apolitical officials. The United States has everything to gain from helping to choose those individuals. The United States will be in a better position to ensure an appropriate U.N. Security Council role regarding the definition of aggression if ever the Assembly of States Parties were to entertain discussions on that contentious issue. Ignoring the Court accomplishes little. It seems, on balance, prudent to sign the Treaty. The United States has lost much of the moral high ground in the effort to shape the ICC. While much time can be spent lamenting U.S. actions and rhetoric before, during, and after the Rome Conference, the future offers the only possibility for change. The sources of military concern are understandable, but they hinge on a need to believe the absolute worst of an institution and a process instead of on a commitment to ensure that it works as intended. Moreover, __by trumpeting its uniqueness and appearing to demand special treatment, the United States corrodes its own power and authority__**.**

==<span class="underline">2AC AT- START</span>== 
**Non-Intrinsic – No reason why the judge as a policy maker can’t pass the plan and START**

**Fiat Solves the Link – We can fiat the plan passes 100 – 0 no backlash on the link**

**Plan is at the bottom of the lame duck docket – the lame duck docket has already been set – normal means, means that the plan goes to the bottom of it – that means the plan gets pushed back into the next Congress**

**Our interpretation of Fiat is Vote No – Whether or not you vote aff or neg the plan is presented in Congress**

**Specifically, U.S. presence in Afghanistan is a flashpoint for U.S.-Russian conflict and destroy****s** **relations – we access all your impacts**

**Cullison & Dreazen, ’09** (Alan Cullison And Yochi J. Dreazen, Staff Writers for The Wall Street Journal, “Moscow Moves to Counter U.S. Power in Central Asia”, 2/5/09, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123378027003448977.html) 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">MOSCOW -- <span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Russia is reasserting its role in Central Asia</span> with a Kremlin push <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">to eject the U.S.</span> from a vital air base and a Moscow-led pact to form an international military force to rival NATO -- two <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">moves that potentially complicate the new U.S. war strategy in Afghanistan</span>. </span>On Wednesday, <span class="underline0">Russia announced a financial rescue fund for a group of ex-Soviet allies and won their agreement to form a military rapid reaction force in the region that it said would match North Atlantic Treaty Organization standards. That came a day after Kyrgyzstan </span>announced, at Russian urging, that it<span class="underline0"> planned to evict the U.S. from the base it has used to ferry large numbers of American troops into Afghanistan.</span> Russia said the base may house part of the planned new force instead. <span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The steps mark Russia's most aggressive push yet to counter a U.S. military presence in the region that it has long resented.</span> They pose a challenge for the administration of President Barack Obama, which sees Afghanistan as its top foreign-policy priority and is preparing to double the size of the American military presence there. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The developments also underscore the difficulties for</span></span> Mr. <span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Obama as he seeks to build a closer relationship with Moscow</span>. Russia is signaling that it will be a tough defender of its interests, especially in its traditional backyard</span> of the former Soviet Union. Though its huge cash reserves are rapidly draining because of falling oil prices, the greater needs of its poorer neighbors are still giving it an opening. "<span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Russia would like to reassert itself in the region</span></span>, and it is using the financial crisis as an opportunity," said Nikolai Zlobin, senior fellow at the World Security Institute, a Washington think tank. </span>



**Russia wouldn’t abide by the treaty-has cheated on every single treaty – that would collapse hegemony**


**Pyne 2** [David, Defense analyst, august 1, http://www.americasvoices.org/avarc2002/archives2002/PyneD/PyneD_
080102.htm]

The historic signature of the Sino-Russian Alliance Treaty on Friendship and Cooperation in July 2001 aimed against the U.S. was one of the biggest recent steps taken towards the realization of the Eastern vision of a New World Order**__. The next major step towards the achievement of both the Western, and especially the Eastern, vision of a New World Order will be full implementation of the recently-signed Treaty of Moscow. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">Given the Russian record of violating every treaty it has ever signed, the implementation of this onerous treaty will most likely serve to unilaterally disarm the United States of three-fourths of its strategic nuclear deterrent, while leaving the bulk of the Russian strategic nuclear arsenal intact. This, in turn, will have the effect of eliminating the U.S. as a global superpower</span> and will thus serve to increase the relative power of the Sino-Russian alliance. It will also go far to make the world safe for nuclear war and/or nuclear blackmail by vastly increasing the current Russian superiority in offensive nuclear and strategic defensive might over the United States.__**



**START causes prolif – kills deterrence, weapon modernization, and missile defense**

**Hoar 10** [WILLIAM P. <span class="tagChar">HOAR 5/11</span>**/**10 (an author and managing editor of Periscope, the U.S. Naval Institute military database. “[[http://www.thenewamerican.com/index.php/reviews/correction-please/3511-a-bad-start-and-other-perilous-nuclear-posturing|A Bad START and Other Perilous Nuclear Posturing]]”, http://www.thenewamerican.com/index.php/reviews/correction-please/3511-a-Bad -start-and-other-perilous-nuclear-posturing)]

Then <span class="aDebateUnderline">there is the deal that the administration has made with Moscow about how many weapons we will be allowed to have</span> — but to which the two parties to the agreement have diametrically opposed interpretations. <span class="aDebateUnderline">The administration is trying to sell the treaty at home with promises that it places no restraints on U.S. missile defenses.</span> Meanwhile, <span class="aDebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Russia insists there is a “legally binding linkage between strategic offense and strategic defensive weapons</span>.” </span>There is a reason that the Russian leader was grinning when Obama signed the treaty document: Virtually <span class="aDebateUnderline">the only alleged concessions made by Moscow were agreements to reductions that were already planned</span>. When your stated aim is a world without nukes, and the presumed means to that end is an ambiguous pact, and the deal allows either party to withdraw — as this treaty does — you are in effect giving the other side veto power over your actions. <span class="aDebateUnderline">Russia has already been blunt about its intentions, saying <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the treaty will only last if the United States “refrains from developing its missile defense capabilities</span></span> quantitatively or qualitatively.” This President or his successor should expect to face a threat from the Kremlin to pull out of the New START if Russia is unhappy with stronger American defenses. <span class="aDebateUnderline">Does it seem likely that Obama would</span> suddenly <span class="aDebateUnderline">opt for a spinal implant to defy Moscow’s understanding if it meant his vaunted pact and dreams would evaporate? The question answers itself. </span>John Bolton, a former Undersecretary of State for Arms Control and International Security, former U.S. Ambassador to the UN, and a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, faults President Obama’s “national-security psychology” for what it has produced. Writing in National Review Online, Bolton notes that <span class="aDebateUnderline">the President “has repeatedly said he believes lowering U.S. nuclear-warhead levels will encourage support for the N</span>on-<span class="aDebateUnderline">P</span>roliferation <span class="aDebateUnderline">T</span>reaty’s weapons <span class="aDebateUnderline">prohibitions on non-nuclear</span>-weapons <span class="aDebateUnderline">states</span>.” Bolton continues: This is the purest form of theology, since <span class="aDebateUnderline">the empirical evidence is entirely to the contrary. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">As the Cold War ended, Moscow and Washington made dramatic reductions in warhead levels</span></span>, huge in percentage and absolute terms. Nonetheless, nuclear <span class="aDebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">prolif</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">e</span>ration <span class="aDebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">continued, and the pace is quickening. After START I and II, India, Pakistan, and North Korea tested nuclear weapons, and Iran rapidly approaches that point.</span> Syria had a clandestine nuclear reactor until Israel destroyed it</span> in September 2007. And if current and aspiring nuclear proliferators keep or develop weapons, this will encourage still more proliferation activity. The dazzling international get-together in D.C. can hardly have deterred North Korea or Iran, even if they heard themselves called “outliers.” It’s tough to hurt the feelings of the rulers in Pyongyang, for example, who have no compunctions about building nukes as quickly as they can while millions of their people have been forced to eat grasses and roots to stay alive. The D.C. summit, as is often the case in the realms of starry-eyed folks with their heads in the clouds, operated from false premises. This is not just delusional, but dangerous. Columnist Mark Steyn took note of the President’s “pledge to set a good example by reducing America’s nuclear arsenal,” and explained that “<span class="aDebateUnderline">there’s no correlation between peace and the number of weapons </span>— except insofar as states with only a few nukes are more likely to use them than states with gazillions: If you’ve only got a dozen, you’re under more pressure to let ’em fly before they’re taken out by incoming.” Steyn continued: <span class="aDebateUnderline">It would be</span> greatly <span class="aDebateUnderline">to the advantage of civilization if responsible powers were to develop new </span>forms of limited, highly <span class="aDebateUnderline">targeted</span>, bunker-busting <span class="aDebateUnderline">nukes. </span>As is well understood by our enemies, <span class="aDebateUnderline">the modern West has no stomach for large-scale casualties: On the morning of September 11th,</span> for example, Mullah <span class="aDebateUnderline">Omar had no fear that Washington would nuke even</span> remote and <span class="aDebateUnderline">lightly inhabited parts of the Hindu Kush</span>. As we learned the hard way in Iraq and Afghanistan, stupid<span class="aDebateUnderline">, ill-trained illiterates with primitive explosives who don’t care who they kill can inflict quite a lot of damage on </span>the technologically advanced, highly trained warriors of <span class="aDebateUnderline">civilized states.</span> That’s the “asymmetric warfare” that matters. So virtuously <span class="aDebateUnderline">proclaiming oneself opposed to nuclear modernization ensures a planet divided into civilized states with unusable weapons and barbarous regimes happy to kill with whatever’s to hand. </span>Those who build castles in the sky aren’t dissuaded from making yet another deal with a power that has a lengthy, insidious history of cheating. This does bother realists. Some are even Republicans, although far too few GOP leaders objected when the Bush administration was making similar hazardous moves. Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.), chairman of the Republican Study Committee, is rightfully uneasy about the new nuclear posture and potential arms-control treaty. Says Price: The Nuclear Posture Review contains several very troubling changes in American policy. <span class="aDebateUnderline">It is simply reckless for the Obama administration to take the nuclear option off the table</span> for any reason. <span class="aDebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Changing our posture</span> </span>in the event we are attacked with biological or chemical weapons by non-nuclear states <span class="aDebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">would actually put Americans in greater danger by encouraging</span></span> the <span class="aDebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">prolif</span></span>eration of these weapons. And <span class="aDebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">by prohibiting</span> the development of new nuclear capabilities</span>, this administration is ensuring that America’s nuclear arsenal, <span class="aDebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">our strongest deterrent against WMD attacks</span>, will grow</span> older <span class="aDebateUnderline">and less reliable</span>. This is not a policy for security. In similar fashion, the Heritage Foundation rather calmly points to the precedents, saying in a fact sheet: “Russia has a history of violating arms-control agreements, and verifying the number of deployed warheads in its arsenal is difficult. The treaty will allow for warhead estimates based on the number of launchers, but it is unclear whether it will provide a method to ensure Russia doesn’t put more than the estimate on each launcher.” Moreover, the negotiations with Moscow were made from a position disadvantageous to the United States. When the former START treaty expired in December 2009, points out the Heritage analysis, “the U.S. had to abandon a monitoring station for Russian weapons in Votkinsk.<span class="aDebateUnderline"> The United States is now unable to monitor Russia’s production of the </span>highly destabilizing <span class="aDebateUnderline">RS-24</span> mobile multi-warhead intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM). Open sources indicate that this missile will be <span class="aDebateUnderline">the mainstay of Russian strategic forces by 2016</span>.” It seems a foregone conclusion that most of the cutting is going to be done by the United States, that is, if the Senate goes along with this proposed disarmament accord with Moscow. Frank Gaffney, a former U.S. Assistant Defense Secretary who is the head of the Center for Security Policy in Washington, D.C., says the <span class="aDebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Russians “are aggressively modernizing their strategic forces with both new missiles</span></span> and warheads. They claim that by 2015 roughly 80 percent of their long-range arsenal will have been upgraded — an activity we are subsidizing by paying to dismantle their old weapon systems, freeing up funds for Moscow’s modernization programs.” It is quite another matter for <span class="aDebateUnderline">the United States</span>. This country, observes Gaffney, “<span class="aDebateUnderline">has not introduced a new nuclear weapon in over fifteen years</span>. Its missiles, submarines and bombers are, by and large, even older, with some dating back to the 1950s and ’60s. Today, <span class="aDebateUnderline">the nation has no capability to produce new nuclear weapons</span> and could not manufacture them in quantity <span class="aDebateUnderline">for many years</span> — the only nuclear power of whom that can be said.” In short, <span class="aDebateUnderline">this is not a place for a new START. It is past time to stop disarming ourselves. It’s time to reload.</span>

==<span class="aDebateUnderline">2AC AT- India Relations DA</span>== 
<span class="cite">1. We solve the impact to the disad- </span>
<span class="cite">A. heg solves all reasons why prolif is bad because the possibility of US power projection acts as a deterrent.</span>
<span class="cite">B. plan solves for stability and terror in the region best- the only incentive for terrorism in the status quo is US presence. Leaving solves for anti-Americanism.</span>

<span class="cite">2. US-India relations low now due to visa fees. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic Times 9/16 </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">[“US visa fee hike can sour ties with India: US experts”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/news-by-industry/services/travel/visa-power/US-visa-fee-hike-can-sour-ties-with-India-US-experts/articleshow/6564089.cms]]</span>]</span></span>
WASHINGTON: <span class="underline">Two noted US economic experts have warned that the new <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">US law steeply hiking visa fees could sour US relations with</span></span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> **India**</span>__ and send wrong signals about US attitudes to open global markets. "Regrettably, what might be good politics is bad policy for America," wrote Jacob F. <span class="underline">Kirkegaard and Arvind Subramanian, senior fellows at the Peterson Institute for International Economics</span>__,__ in Foreign Policy magazine <span class="underline">about the law to hike visa fees to raise $600 million to help secure the US-Mexico border. "It is unlikely to raise revenue</span>__,__ will inflict damage to American competitiveness, sour <span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">US relations with India, and above all send the wrong signals about US attitudes to open global markets,"</span></span> they say noting that the Congress's budget neutrality numbers simply don't add up. "<span class="underline">Without explicitly saying so<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">, the law clearly targets India, home of the world's fastest growing IT services companies," the experts wrote noting Indians received about half of </span>all H-1B and L-1 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">visas in 2009, </span></span>and comprise most of the roughly 50 percent of all H-1B and L-1 recipients who work in computer-related occupations in the US. <span class="underline">"<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Despite</span> US President Barack <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Obama's endless declarations that the </span>US-India 'strategic <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">partnership will continue to grow', this is a direct snub to India's most powerful domestic advocates of economic liberalisation," </span>Kirkegaard and Subramanian wrote.</span>
<span class="cite">3. The plan is a phased withdrawal- if we pull out minimal troops at a time means India doesn’t perceive a drop in relations. And, the time it takes for the troops to fully withdraw means that the US and India will have talked about the plan.</span>

<span class="cite">4. Plan isn't a complete withdrawal, counter-terrorism forces remain. No link.</span>

==<span class="cite">2AC AT- Surge CP</span>== 
Maybe they didn’t get the memo, we are going to lose in Afghanistan no mater what 
First, Geograpically its to moutainous for us to get a good foothold, that gives natives a leg up because they know terrain better
Second, COIN wont work, afghani’s think we are propping up an illegit government so they don’t trust us, prevents any good co-operation or information gathering
Third History proves Afghani’s are united agaist foreigners, Russia, the Mongols, England and Macidonia were all kicked out and failed, so will the US 
More ev, COIN will fail—geography and culture 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stewart 09</span></span> (professor at the harvard kenidy school of government, 09, a when testifying at congress, [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan]]//adam )//
//<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">A strategy of ‘clear, hold and build’ seems particularly implausible in Afghanistan. </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">In Iraq – which is a much more urban society –it was possible for US and Iraqi security forces around Baghdad to ‘clear and hold’ ground because the geographical area was relatively limited</span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Afghanistan has an overwhelmingly rural population scattered through an inhospitable terrain, the size of Texas and encompassing perhaps thousand villages. Even a hundred thousand US troops would be far too few to hold or garrison even a fraction of such a vast area. In Iraq, a tradition of strong central government and a much more educated population with an indigenous resource base at least allowed for the possibility of ‘building’, following the ‘clear and hold.’ In Afghanistan the lack of the most basic education and capacity and will in governmental structures (and even in the private sector) means that very little of substance could be ‘built’ during the time that the US and its allies attempted to ‘hold’.</span></span>//
//Permutation: Surge non-COIN troops into Afghanistan…its functionally perm do both and solves all the turns because they are predicated on reducing presence//

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CP Solves None of Case</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 18.75pt; text-indent: -18.75pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A.) Pakistan COIN causes instability in Afghanistan that spills over into Pakistan here are a few reasons</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 36.75pt; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1.) It legitimatizes Taliban and al-qaeda propoganda, it prove what they say is true, that causes more people to join with them, that’s Cortright </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 36.75pt; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2.) It causes the Pashtuns to get more radical, they hate the US being on their land because they are very nationalistic and percive it as the US going to war directly against them. This causes them to join up with Pashtuns in Pakistan eventally leading to a coup—that’s Krisof </span></span></span>

B.)Hegemony We have three internal links to heg that the CP can’t come close to solving 
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">1.)Expenses, wars cost money and staying in Afghanistan for extended periods run up th deficit and drowns the US in debt—only a small foot print can solve-that’s Petras</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">2.)Overreach—when we commit to many troops to one place, we lose flexibility, that makes our army immoble and weak—that’s Englehardt </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">3.)Mission failiure—staying in Afghanitan for forty years makes us look like a fail of a military, we just cant win a war, crushes heg more than withdrawal would. That’s Innocent and Carpenter</span>

==Plenary Powers CP== 


=Negative= 

==COIN NEG== 
===Surge CP=== 
<span class="Underline">**Text: The United States federal government should remove all timetables for withdrawal from Afghanistan. The United States federal government should maintain current troop levels in Afghanistan, commit to the surge and follow through on the counterinsurgency strategy as outlined by General** </span> **McChrystal.<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> The United States federal government should substantially increase funds for advertising for people to join the military, entitlement bonuses and the number of military recruiters on duty. The United States federal government should offer pay raises and bonuses for those who reenlist for the military for additional tours. The United States federal government should offer educational incentives for those who join the military.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">We’ll clarify. </span>**

<span class="Underline">Signals and plans for withdrawal create a self-fulfilling prophecy dooming solvency and emboldening terrorists—only the surge can solve and prevent Taliban take-over</span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rubin, 9</span></span> (Michael, resident scholar at AEI, “<span class="detailtitle">Not Nearly Enough on Afghanistan”, 12/1/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/101375)</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">There should be nothing wrong __**...**__ **__dozen new Afghanistans.__**</span>

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perception of wavering causes the Pakistan to house the Taliban for safety—Iraq proves the cp is the only way to solve insurgency </span></span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan, Professor of Military History at West Point,</span></span> 05/07/<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">’09</span></span> **[**Fredrick W., Planning Victory in Afghanistan, http://www.aei.org/article/100020, DA:07/19/’10,]
<span class="underline">The consistent unwillingness ... it takes to win.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Increasing recruting incentives like the cp solves quickest</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kapp 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lawrence, 2/25/2002, “Recruiting and Retention in the Active Component Military: Are There Problems?” CRS, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.policyarchive.org/handle/10207/bitstreams/1356.pdf]]</span>, D.A. 7/26)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Historically</span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, the first response...</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with civilian employers </span>
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Retention is the key internal link—it has a snowball effect that kills the whole army—this is an alt cause to the aff even if we kick the CP </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Krepinevich 2K</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrew, 9/1/2000, “Ready for What?,” Wall Street Journal, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/Archive/O.20000901.Ready_for_What/O.20000901.Ready_for_What.htm]]</span>, D.A. 7/26)</span>
The charged nature of the debate __**...**__ **__Preventive medicine is crucial here.__**

===<span class="underline">COIN Good/CT Bad 1NC (Net benefit to surge)</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">First—Counterterrorism fails at intelligence gathering—only COIN is effective—CT also causes terrorism by allowing al-quaeda to have a safe haven </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Riedel and O’Hanlon 9 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Saban Center for Middle East Policy and Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings (Bruce, Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, “Why We Can't Go Small In Afghanistan,” Brookings, September 24th, <span style="color: black;">http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0924_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The fundamental reason that ... there is little choice.</span>

<span class="entry-author">**A shift to a counterterrorism strategy cedes Afghanistan to Al Qaeda and The Taliban it plays into their propoganda and we lose control over regions—leads to the collapse of Pakistan and Afghanistan instability** </span>
<span class="entry-author">**Roggio 09 -** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">an <span style="color: black;">American</span> commentator on military affairs, managing editor of <span style="color: black;">The Long War Journal</span>, published the online weblog <span style="color: black;">The Fourth Rail</span>, was an active duty soldier in the <span style="color: black;">United States Army</span> in the 1990 - </span><span class="entry-author"> (</span><span class="entry-date"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">September 24, Bill “</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Counterterrorism at the expense of counterinsurgency will doom Afghanistan and Pakistan: US officials” <span style="color: black;">http://www.longwarjournal.org/archives/2009/09/reliance_of_countert.php</span> )</span>
<span class="Underline">This alternative strategy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, .... along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.</span>

Embolden Taliban and Al Qaeda actions spread into Central Asia destabilizing the entire region and inevitably draws Russia into the conflict
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Globe 01/15/10</span></span> [Paul Goble; Georgian Daily; January 1st 2010; Afghan Conflict Spreading into Central Asia, Russian Analyst Says; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.e-ariana.com/ariana/eariana.nsf/allDocs/82beea6bceb4b7cf872576ac00552ff9%21OpenDocument&Click=|http://www.e-ariana.com/ariana/eariana.nsf/allDocs/82beea6bceb4b7cf872576ac00552ff9!OpenDocument&Click=]]</span>] 
<span class="underline">Because NATO has chosen ...Taliban actions on their territories<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="color: black;">Central Asian instability – creates huge conflict that draws in the US, Russia, and China</span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peimani 2</span></span><span style="color: black;"> [Hooman Peimani, 2002 University of Bradford Department of Peace Studies Central Asia and Caucasus specialist Failed Transition, Bleak Future: War and Instability in Central Asia and the Caucasus, p. 142]</span>
<span class="underline">The impact of war and instability...other countries in Asia and Europe.</span>

===1NC- Heg Advantage=== 
Withdrawal kills heg—shows weakness, causes Russian expansionism and China war 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Weinstein 04</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Professor of Political Science at Purdue University (Michael, 11/12. Power and Interest News Report. http://www.pinr.com/report.php?ac=view_printable&report_id=235&language_id=1)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The persistence of insurgencies...</span> __becomes more probable.__

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan kills morale and makes the US look weak—this kills heg-our evidence is comparative with your finances, mission failure, and overreach internal link to heg </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Singh 10</span></span> (<span style="color: black;">Jan Mar 10 //Rohit Singh is a Research Assistant at the Center for Land Warfare Studies (CLAWS)//<span style="color: black;">[[http://www.indiandefencereview.com/2010/06/us-military-surge-in-afghanistan.html|US Military Surge in Afghanistan ]]</span>http</span>://www.indiandefencereview.com/2010/06/us-military-surge-in-afghanistan.html//Donnie
To many, <span class="underline">the decades ...</span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> right at its own peril</span></span>

===<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">1NC- Stability Advantage (Central Asia, Terrorism, and Pakistan internal links)</span></span>=== 
Terrorists can not mount effective attacks
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Byman and Fair, 10</span> -** * senior fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy and the director of Georgetown University's Center for Peace and Security Studies AND **assistant professor at Georgetown University's Center for Peace and Security Studies (Daniel and Christine, “The Case for Calling Them Nitwits,” The Atlantic, July/August, [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2010/07/the-case-for-calling-them-nitwits/8130/]])**
**But this view ... embrace in Paktika.**

**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan is perceived as weakness --emboldens terrorists and draws Central Asia into conflict </span></span>**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rashid 9</span></span> (Ahmed, the National Interest, former Pakistani revolutionary and journalist, author of “Descent into Chaos”, 10/27/09, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22352)**
**<span class="underline">SOUTHERN REGIONS of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Muslim </span><span class="underline">...allies in central Asia</span>**

**<span class="cite">Great powers will co-operate to prevent escalation—no war </span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collins and Wohlforth, 4</span></span> - *professor of political science at Notre Dame AND** professor of government at Dartmouth (Kathleen and William, “Defying ‘Great Game’ Expectations, Strategic Asia 2003-2004, [[http://www.dartmouth.edu/%7Egovt/docs/15-Central%20Asia-press.pdf|http://www.dartmouth.edu/~govt/docs/15-Central%20Asia-press.pdf]])
While cautious realism must...<span class="Underline0"> stability in Central Asia</span>.

Pakistan stability increasing now – public support is strong for crushing the Pakistani Taliban
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fair, 10</span></span> **-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">assistant professor at Georgetown University and a visiting scholar at the Lahore University of Management Science (Christine, “Is Pakistan a failed state? No.,” 6/24, </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/24/is_pakistan_a_failed_state_no</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> So, </span><span class="Underline">Pakistan faces severe challenges... a failed or even failing state</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

US withdraw causes Pakistan coup and massive instability 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rashid, 09</span></span><span class="Underline"> – former Pakistani revolutionary and journalist (10/27/09, Ahmed, The National Interest, “Trotsky in Baluchistan,” </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22352</span>)
<span class="Underline">The threat the United States ...would seal the region’s fate.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Depleted Uranium 1NC</span>== 

===T- Presence=== 

<span style="font-size: 14pt; text-indent: -27pt;">A. **Interpretation - Presence consists of infrastructure, troops and agreements and exercises conducted with the host country but not bullets or even the substance within bullets** </span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt; margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Peterson</span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> 8</span></span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(J.E., Ph.D. Fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute, Middle East Institute, an Adjunct Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, worked at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, and more.. “Foreign Military Presence and its Role in Reinforcing Regional Security: A Double-Edged Sword.” //Emirates// //Center// //for Strategic Studies and Research//. pp. 183-205., http://www.jepeterson.net/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderfiles/Foreign_Military_Presence_in_the_Gulf.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Levels of Foreign Military Presence...irredentist movements; Cuba in Africa </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#_Toc270453237]] Depleted Uranium </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#_Toc270453238]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#_Toc270453239]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#_Toc270453240]] </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#_Toc270453241]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#_Toc270453242]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">5. Topic Specific Education – allowing them to stray from presence kills framers intent and forces us to learn about small irrelevant things that don’t actually represent US presence – takes the debate away from justification of presence to small deontological justifications</span>


<span style="font-size: 14pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">D. Voter for fairness, education, and jurisdiction.</span>**</span>

===Courts CP=== 

**Counterplan Text: The United States Supreme Court should unilaterally rule that Depleted Uranium can no longer be used in military activities on the grounds of International Law. The United States Supreme Court should unilaterally rule that the United States cleanse the areas in which Depleted Uranium was used militarily on the grounds of International Environmental Law enforcement and funding are guaranteed. We’ll Clarify**

**DU violates international law – because of it’s radioactivity, lack of focus, and cruel after-effects on civilians – it violates International Environment Law due to the extended negative effects it has on the environment – the cp solve better than case – because it solves for the alt causes the case doesn’t such as Kuwait, Gulf States, and Bosnia – it also prevents future use which the case can’t do**

**Clark 9** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Ramsey Clark; International Action Center founder Ramsey Clark, a former US Attorney General and internationally renown human rights defender, received the respected United Nations Prize in the Field of Human Rights; 14 Oct 2009; An International Appeal to Ban the Use of Depleted Uranium Weapons</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.iacenter.org/depleted/appeal.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> Anthony Ogbuli]</span>
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">__Depleted-uranium weapons are__</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">...</span>**<span style="font-weight: normal;"> __Protocols Additional of 1977__ <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span> </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> China DA </span>=== 

**China currency bill may pass the Senate, but Obama has the political capital to veto it**
<span class="cite">**Reuters 10/25**</span> (“GOP poised to gain tax, banking clout in U.S.” http://blogs.reuters.com/columns/2010/10/25/gop-poised-to-gain-tax-banking-clout-in-u-s /Donnie)
<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">This may be one of...</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">All are favored by Republicans.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Empirics prove our link…3 bills like the plan have been introduced none even made it out of subcommittee – passing this plan would drain capital </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Passera 9/15</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Athena Passera NAPF Intern “Depleted Uranium: What we know, what we don’t know, and what we must find out” 2010. </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[@http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/pdfs/2010_09_15_passera_du.pdf/Donnie|http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/pdfs/2010_09_15_passera_du.pdf//Donnie]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> )</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">In 2001</span>____, former democratic Congresswoman...____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">was made in 2006</span>__ __by McKinney.__



**A bad political environment is driving the bill—Obama needs political capital to hold it off**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**<span class="cite">Reuters 9/8</span>** (“Senate, House eye action on China currency”</span>
http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6875RK20100908?pageNumber=1Donnie)
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">__<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A volatile political environment is...</span></span>__<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">energize their union base</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">," Griswold said.</span></span>

**Statements by Chinese officials prove Obama signing it causes a trade war**
**Miami Herald 10/8**
(“U.S.-China trade war feared” http://www.miamiherald.com/2010/10/08/1862882/us-china-trade-war-feared.html//Donnie)//
<span style="display: inline !important; font-size: 12pt;">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 19px;"><span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Chinese ambassador to...</span></span></span>__</span><span style="display: inline !important; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">discuss business opportunities in China.</span>

**China bashing escalates to trade war that goes hot—even if the US wins the shooting war it still collapses its geopolitical position**
<span class="cite">Liu 5</span> **(Henry C K Liu** is chairman of a New York-based private investment group. **“**<span style="color: black;">Trade wars can lead to shooting wars”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/GH20Dj01.html</span>Donnie
__<span class="underline">US </span>geopolitical<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> <span class="underline">hostility toward China...</span></span>____<span class="underline">a world plagued with overcapacity</span>.__

**US china war escalates—causes extinction**
**__(STRAIT TIMES__**, June 25, **__2K__**, Pg. l/n)
__THE high-intensity scenario postulates__...__see the destruction of civilization__.

===CASE=== 

<span class="cite">**Extinction threats must trump other forms of risk calculus – we don’t have the option to experiment, our existing decision making processes are inadequate, and future generations magnify the size of the impact infinitely** </span>
**Bostrom 1** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Nick Bostrom, 2001 prof of Philosophy, Oxford University [ Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002. First version: 2001 March, JStor]</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">A much greater existential risk emerged...</span>____we discount future____benefits__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [15,16].</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span class="cite">**Focusing on infinite risk doesn’t destroy morality – maximizing the potential of avoiding extinction is moral itself** </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**Bostrom 1** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Nick Bostrom, 2001 prof of Philosophy, Oxford University [ Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002. First version: 2001 March, JStor]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Previous sections have argued that..safety compared to other philanthropies.</span>

**Alt causes – overhunting, unintentional killing and pollution.**
**Eiperin 8** <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Juliet, Washington Post, Oct 7, </span>[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/10/06/AR2008100600641.html]]<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; margin: 0in;">At least a quarter of the world's wild...being caught in fishing nets.</span>

==Afghanistan Complete Withdrawal Neg== 

===Nietzsche K=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The modern age is characterized by a disavowal of tragedy. The triumph of reason manifests in our attempt to resolve the chaotic aspects of life and avoid suffering. This requires the construction of an ideal world toward which our apparent world aspires. In trying to move toward certainty and security and attempting to renounce disorder and insecurity, the plan moves to change the world to make it duplicate their idealized image of order </span>**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Saurette</span></span>, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">19<span class="Author-Date">96</span></span>** (Paul, “I Must trust all Systematizers and Avoid them Neitzsche, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory”, Millenium Journal of International Studies, Vol. 25, No. 1, 3-6)


According to Nietzsche,....fundamental philosophical principle of modernity.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, the affirmatives’ call for security and safety ignores the fact that we can never be safe or secure. Accepting that there are external threats to order is key to enjoying life. The affirmative will always be able to locate some external threat to world order. The impacts read by the affirmative are not unique. The uncomfortable yet irresistible truth is that uncertainty and risk are part of human life. Rather than coming to terms with this, the affirmative encourages us to be afraid and stop enjoying life. At issue here is not just life itself but what makes life valuable. We encourage indifference and carelessness in a world inherently characterized by insecurity in an attempt to reclaim joy from the affirmative’s world of paranoia. </span>**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian</span></span><span class="MsoSubtleEmphasis"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">, </span></span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">19<span class="Author-Date">93</span></span>** (James, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Watson</span></span> Institute research professor of international studies (Brown University, 1993, “The political subject of violence”) 

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">One must begin with Nietzsche's idea....</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">of mistrust and evil experiences.</span>__"


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, disorder and insecurity are inevitable because we live in a dangerous world. Efforts to control this fear have resulted in the deaths of millions and the creation of WMDs. The alternative is a negative gesture of indifference—we must learn to live with the world as it is. Admitting that everything is dangerous will allow us to break out of the death cycle. </span>**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian</span></span>**,** (Political Science Professor, University of Massachusetts)<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 98</span></span> (James, On Security, ed: Lipschitz, The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard, Decentering Security). 

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No other concept in international.....</span>__identities calcifying into a fearful sameness.



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the alternative: Do Nothing. This ontological disarmament in the face of dangerous others is the only means to real peace, which can only exists in the mind. Living life is more important than deferring death.</span>**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nietzsche</span></span><span class="MsoPageNumber"> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">18</span></span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">78</span></span><span class="MsoPageNumber"> (Friedrich, “The anti-christ”. Human, All too Human. Aphorism #284) </span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The means to real peace......</span>__comes from a cloud- and from up high.

===Tax Cuts=== 

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Status quo bipartisanship lets tax extensions pass with a compromise but political capital is key- key to the economy </span></span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Needham 12/7** [Vicki; The Hill, Lieberman says tax cut proposal can pass the Senate; 12/7/10; </span></span><span class="cite">[[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/domestic-taxes/132461-lieberman-says-tax-cut-proposal-can-pass-the-senate]]</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> //STRONG]</span></span> 

<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Sen. Joe</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Lieberman </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(I-Conn.)</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> not only......</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">tax increase and help our economy move forward.”</span>


**<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Afghanistan withdrawal crushes obama – fierce opposition and perception of weakness on defense </span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">Wills ’09</span></span>**<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Gary, Pulitzer Prize winner specializing in American politics, new york review of books, 12/3, http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2009/dec/03/a-one-term-president-the-choice/) </span>
<span style="font-family: "Arial","sans-serif";">I am told by people I respect.....</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">men and women in the military? </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> </span>
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extensions key to the economy- small businesses and consumer spending  </span></span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Arslan 12/7** [Kristie, executive director of the National Association for the Self-Employed; The Hill, The small business case for extending tax cuts; December 12, 2010; </span></span><span class="cite">[[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/132441-the-small-business-case-for-extending-tax-cuts]]</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> //STRONG]</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Much of the political posturing over the.......</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">engine of economic growth – America's small businesses.</span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline causes nuclear world war three  </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baltimore Examiner 9</span></span>** [“Will this recession lead to World War III?” http://www.examiner.com/republican-in-baltimore/will-this-recession-lead-to-world-war-iii]
Could the current economic crisis....<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 18px;">However sometimes history repeats itself.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 18px;">Negotiate With The Taliban CP</span>=== 

===1NC Pakistan Stability Advantage=== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Pakistan stability increasing now – public support is strong for crushing the Pakistani Taliban</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fair, 10</span></span> **-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">assistant professor at Georgetown University and a visiting scholar at the Lahore University of Management Science (Christine, “Is Pakistan a failed state? No.,” 6/24,</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/24/is_pakistan_a_failed_state_no</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">So, </span><span class="Underline">Pakistan faces severe challenges... a failed or even failing state</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">US withdraw causes Pakistan coup and massive instability</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rashid, 09</span></span><span class="Underline"> – former Pakistani revolutionary and journalist (10/27/09, Ahmed, The National Interest, “Trotsky in Baluchistan,”</span><span style="color: black;">http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22352</span>)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span class="Underline">The threat the United States ...would seal the region’s fate.</span></span>


















[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]