[[toc]]
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kritiks</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Afghanistan Kritik</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The left brought down the Bush Administration by saying that his Foreign Policy made us less safe – This was a pyrrhic victory that got Obama elected, but created the political necessity for the counterinsurgency tactics they recognize as flawed</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The aff failed to learn from this mistake by opposing the Afghan war on the grounds it undermines security – This entrenches the national security state and makes constructed threats real</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ira Chernus, professor of religious studies at the University of Colorado at Boulder, 2005 ["Beyond the (In)Security State: Where Fear Can't Take Us," TomDispatch.com, October 5th, www.commondreams.org/views05/1005-23.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A recent TV ad from MoveOn.org sums up the...need to protect ourselves against.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The 1AC’s drive to “fix” Afghanistan is based on the myth of the West as the privileged savior of the globe – US global engagement constantly recreates non-existent crises to justify neocolonialist interventions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lori Crowe, Ph.D. Candidate in Political Science at York University, 2007, “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West,’” p. 20-21</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The ‘heroism’ narrative can be called...‘crime’ and the crackdown”.61</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, even if the 1AC has good intentions the framing will be co-opted by the West—undermines actual security for the Afghanis</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Neil Cooper, Lecturer in International Relations and Security in the Department of Peace Studies at the University of Bradford, December 2005, “Picking out the Pieces of the Liberal Peaces: Representations of Conflict Economies and the Implications for Policy,” Security Dialogue, Vol. 36, No. 4, p. 472-474</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nevertheless, it is also the case that the...dynamics driving such networks.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, there’s zero impact to Afghan instability—1AC ignores its own contribution to the framing of Afghanistan – ensures error replication</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Neil Cooper, Lecturer in International Relations and Security in the Department of Peace Studies at the University of Bradford, October 2006, “Chimeric governance and the extension of resource Regulation,” Conflict, Security, Development, Vol. 6, No. 3, p. 320-325</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, in much of the contemporary...changing geography of local and global regulation is one.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Be skeptical of their aff—it’s an imperialist lie and justifies endless intervention—only the Ks interrogation of the 1AC breaks down the ongoing cycles of conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lori Crowe, Ph.D. Candidate in Political Science at York University, 2007, “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West,’” p. 21-24</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The militarization narrative...natural, normal and thus are potentially destructive mechanisms.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alternative text: vote negative to adopt the position of an intellectual-in-exile, through criticism and rejection of the 1AC.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The stance of an intellectual in exile refers to a scholarly orientation that remains outside the policymaking structures of the state and academy—we call into question the epistemology of “experts” through an ongoing political intervention</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Shampa Biswas, Professor of Politics at Whitman College and one of Buntin’s thesis readers, December 2007, “Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist,” Millennium: Journal of International Studies, Vol. 36, No. 1, p. 124-127</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Said has written extensively and poignantly...reach and where dissension in the public realm is noticeably absent, carry special responsibility in this regard.38</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And our K is critical in the context of Afghanistan—only the alternative arrests cycles of failed imperial policies—first step to create conditions necessary for global peace</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lori Crowe, Ph.D. Candidate in Political Science at York University, 2007, “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West,’” p. 35-37</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> We need to navigate critically and...we are all implicated in this process) is what kind of world is being produced through what myths and who is benefiting and who is being disappeared?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The academy should not be a test for policy-knowledge—only refusing the “cult of expertise” creates the conditions for change—demands for policy relevancs makes true change impossible—alt solves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Shampa Biswas, Professor of Politics at Whitman College and one of Buntin’s thesis readers, December 2007, “Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist,” Millennium: Journal of International Studies, Vol. 36, No. 1, p. 121-123</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> While it is no surprise that the US academy...apolitical terms.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Cheating Arguments</span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Value to Life</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Withdrawing from Afghanistan leads to mechanized warfare that kills value to life</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Grove, 10 – PhD Candidate Johns Hopkins (Jairus, 3-16-10 http://contemporarycondition.blogspot.com/2010/02/new-wars-new-warriors.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I had no recollection of what it was...game that would make me wish for hell's certainty and finality. This cannot be the best we can do.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Endless War</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The impact is huge – the failure to see the world as anything other than a target for the U.S. military ensures perpetual global war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Rey Chow, the Andrew W. Mellon Professor of the Humanities and Professor of Modern Culture & Media Studies at Brown University, 2006, The Age of the World Target: Self-Referentiality in War, Theory, and Comparative Work, p. 40-42</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A largely administrative enterprise, closely tied...remarks, area studies has been, since its inception, haunted by “the absence of a definable object” – and by “the problem of the vanishing object.”</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Methodology Extensions</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Your ballot should foreground an investigation into the method and epistemology used to assemble the 1AC</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lori Crowe, Ph.D. Candidate in Political Science at York University, 2007, “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West,’” p. 35-37</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> We need to navigate critically...we are all implicated in this process) is what kind of world is being produced through what myths and who is benefiting and who is being disappeared?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Not foregrounding epistemology turns debate into a bankrupt activity that leads to serial policy failure</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Steve Smith, Professor and Pro-Vice Chancellor in the Department of International Studies at the University of Wales- Aberystwyth, 1997, Review of International Studies, Vol. 23, p. 514-516</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In my view, Wallace misrepresents...we work and to which we are responsible.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Our method arguments are prerequisites to the aff</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> David Owen, Reader in Political Theory at the University of Southampton, 2002, Millennium: Journal of International Studies, Vol. 31, No. 3, p. 668-669</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Another way of elucidating what...constitution as a problem, such as this assumption concerning sovereignty and human welfare.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT: Alternative Doesn't Solve</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Turn – Their definition of the political is too narrow – Focusing on ONLY being Politicians prevents critical thinking, a true understanding of politics and undermines individuals’ beliefs in their own political power</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Eric Gorham, Professor of Political Science, Loyola University, 2003, http:l/civiced.indiana.edu/papers/2003/1052345788.doc "A Political Argument for Service-Learning in Higher Education" November</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> We need to accommodate these...most of the discipline teaches it.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Civic engagement is misguided now – 9/11 has been used to warp it into an uncritical Patriotic fervor in order to keep the population in a constant state of panic with a discourse of domestic security and war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Henry A. Giroux, Professor of Education at Boston University, 2003 Public Spaces, Private Lives</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the aftermath of the monstrous...work before the terrorist attacks.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Interrogating the way the West comes to understand and represent Afghanistan is crucial to undermining cycles of violent and failed intervention</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lori Crowe, Ph.D. Candidate in Political Science, York University, 2007, “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West,’” p.2-5</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In an article entitled...are being disseminated, and understand what is at stake in failing to do so.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">History is replete with examples of successful political alternatives against imperialism – their knee-jerk dismissal of the alternative just demonstrates the way dominant political narratives condition us to believe that change isn’t possible</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lori Crowe, Ph.D. Candidate in Political Science at York University, 2007, “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West,’” p. 12-13</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The vicious reaction that dominated...through a “political economy of domination.”39</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT: Case Outweighs</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This means we’re controlling comparative probability of impacts AND the race to the root-cause. Even if we don’t win the K solves the entire case—ultimate causality outweighs proximate—traditional scholarship ignores attempts to understand the root cause of war because investigating proximate causes is easier</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Shaw and Wong, 89 [R. Paul – economist in the Human Resources Division of the World Bank's Economic Development Institute Yuwa – professor, Genetic Seeds of Warfare: evolution, nationalism and patriotism, accessed via Google Books] pg. 11-12</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> So far, we have synthesized many...reinforce propensities for warfare.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The idea of securitizing Afghanistan and assisting in development is a lie—plan causes insecurity and destroys actual progress</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Neil Cooper, Lecturer in International Relations and Security in the Department of Peace Studies at the University of Bradford, October 2006, “Chimeric governance and the extension of resource Regulation,” Conflict, Security, Development, Vol. 6, No. 3, p. 332</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> To conclude, the contemporary...imagined insecurities of the rich.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">No offense – K turns each advantage</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Robin Blackburn, Professor of Sociology at the University of Essex, UK, 3-7, 2008, “Question for Barack Obama: Why is Afghanistan the 'Right War'?,” online: http://www.counterpunch.org/blackburn03072008.html, accessed March 11, 2008</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The ISAF now operates...the Afghani people need to reach their own solutions.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT: Perm Do Both</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rejection is key – legitimizing securitization spillsover to other imperial projects</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Neil Cooper, Lecturer in International Relations and Security in the Department of Peace Studies at the University of Bradford, October 2006, “Chimeric governance and the extension of resource Regulation,” Conflict, Security, Development, Vol. 6, No. 3, p. 325</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Thus, the contemporary merger...the invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It’s incompatible with the plan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Wendt, 92 [Alexander—Professor at: Yale, Dartmouth, University of Chicago, Ralph D. Mershon Professor of International Security at the Ohio State University, Listed as the 3rd most influential IR scholar in the world in recent field study “Anarchy is what states make of it: the social construction of power politics”] PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The first reason is that once constituted...they are almost impossible to transform</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The aff silences the alternative</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Huysmans, 02 [Jef—Ph.D, Professor University of Kent at Canterbury, “Defining social constructivism in security studies: the normative dilemma of writing security”] http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb3225/is_1_27/ai_n28906098/pg_5/?tag=content;col1</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The critical quality...now dominant discourse.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Turns Case Arguments</span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Turns Pakistan</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ramps up the War against Pakistan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Peter Baker and Elisabeth Bumiller are journalists for the New York Times. September 22, 2009. “Obama Considers Strategy Shift in Afghan War.” http://www.nytimes.com/2009/09/23/world/asia/23policy.html?_r=4 (free registration required) mrs</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Among the alternatives...position questions that assumption.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Engelhardt, 10 Tom Engelhardt Tom Engelhardt is a graduate of Yale University and one of the country's most eminent book editorsEditor of TomDispatch.com http://www.huffingtonpost.com/tom-engelhardt/america-detached-from-war_b_624155.html d.a. 7-25-10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> America Detached from War: Bush's Pilotless Dream, Smoking Drones, and Other Strange Tales From the Crypt Smoking Drones, not a single smoking drone is in sight...It’s a nasty combination, this globalization of death.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Turns Pakistan and Terrorism</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Turns --- Pakistan and Terrorism advantages</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Siddiqui, 10 Tayyab Siddiqui- former Pakistani Ambassador Pakistan’s drone dilemma http://www.dawn.com/wps/wcm/connect/dawn-content-library/dawn/news/pakistan/04-drone-dilemma-qs-03 7-18-10 d.a. 7-25-10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The US must recognise that no matter what...strikes and suicide attacks in Pakistani cities.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Drones based in Afghanistan are blamed for attacks in Pakistan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Japan Today, 09 http://www.japantoday.com/category/world/view/us-spy-drones-kill-11-in-pakistan.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Missile strikes...drones based in Afghanistan.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan will be perceived in Pakistan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rupee News 10 July 18, 2010 Clinton’s colossal credibility problem in Pakistan http://rupeenews.com/2010/07/18/clintons-colossal-credibility-problem-in-pakistan/ d.a. 7-25-10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> While the State Department is...Pakistan and Afghanistan.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lacan Kritik</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Language produces a gap between the Real and our conception of it—we repress what can’t be described because it threatens our perceived completeness of the Fantasy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Edkins, 03 [Jenny—Senior Lecturer of International Politics at the University of Wales-Abserystwyth, Trauma and the Memory of Politics] pg 11-14</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the psychoanalytic account the subject...closed social order</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">They address the gap by using political action to impose a certain view of reality to their own ends—a false utopia—achieving this new world facilitates the existence of a scapegoat which must be exterminated to stabilize their notion of reality</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stratavakis, 99 [Yannis—visiting fellow University of Essex, Lacan and the Political] pg 63-65</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> What constantly emerges...nexus producing reality.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alternative text: reject the affirmative and traverse the fantasy</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Only identifying the impossibility of our representation avoids the exclusionary logic of the 1AC</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stratavakis, 99 [Yannis—visiting fellow University of Essex, Lacan and the Political] pg 63-65</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> By saying ‘We are all Jews!’...with the lack in the Other.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Impact---Loss of Being</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Loss of being is a fate worse than death</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Zimmerman, 94 [Professor of Philosophy at Tulane University – 94 (Michael, Contesting Earth's Future] pg 119-120</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Heidegger asserted that...never "disclosed" by humanity.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Framework</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Methodology is a prerequisite</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bartlett, 90 [Katherine T.—Professor of Law Duke University, “Feminist Legal Methods, Harvard Review]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Feminists have developed...primary motivation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Overlooking assumptions breeds serial policy failure</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hajer and Wagenaar, 03 [Maarten and Hendrik, Professor of Political Science University Van Amsterdam, “Editors Introduction, Deliberative Policy Analysis: Understanding Governance in the Network Society”] PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The third section, Methods and Foundations...in conjunction</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3. Flawed psychoanalytic approaches rooted in fantasy can never solve</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stratavakis, 99 [Yannis—visiting fellow University of Essex, Lacan and the Political] pg 54-55</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Fantasy supports reality...revealed in fantasy.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Fiat K</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Fiat is illusionary—the attempt to construct politics as a sphere separate from the social totality is exactly the social fantasy we criticize</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stavrakakis, 99 – Visiting Fellow in Government at the University of Essex (Yannis, Lacan and the Political, p. 71-73, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Chapter 2 examined the various ways...very ontological condition.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Reality is constructed by the fantasy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stavrakakis, 99 – Visiting Fellow in Government at the University of Essex (Yannis, Lacan and the Political, p. 54, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> At first it is indeed possible...meaning and discourse 14.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">K before fiat</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stavrakakis, 99 – Visiting Fellow in Government at the University of Essex (Yannis, Lacan and the Political, p. 62, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Fantasy supports reality This signified function...revealed in fantasy.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC K First</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alt is a pre-condition for understanding and implementation of political solutions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stavrakakis, 99 – Visiting Fellow in Government at the University of Essex (Yannis, Lacan and the Political, p. 1-2, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The ambiguity of Lacan's...as a step in this direction.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Aff is co-opted—only the alt solves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stavrakakis, 99 – Visiting Fellow in Government at the University of Essex (Yannis, Lacan and the Political, p. 5-6, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A similiar objection is...Jakobson) and topology.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Root Cause of War</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, scapegoating in the welfare state proves—identifying and demonizing internal enemies as threats to the peace and stability of the welfare state sanctions every form of violence</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">George, 02 [Larry- Professor of Political Science California State University, Theory Culture, & Society, “Politic?The Pharmacotic War on Terrorism: Cure or Poison for the US Body“]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It is easy to see how war could be regarded...catastrophe will likely prove overwhelming.2</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Turns K Affs</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Aff’s claims to create social harmony are flawed and dangerous—their ideology causes scapegoating and serial policy failure</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Daly, 04 [Glyn—“Risking the Impossible”] <http://www.lacan.com/zizek-primer.htm</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> So how does ideology deal with its immanent...today's cynical assertion of the way things actually are.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Claims to eliminate disorder embody the utopian politic—future visions of a world absent conflict ensures violent scapegoating and otherization</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stratavakis, 99 [Yannis—visiting fellow University of Essex, Lacan and the Political]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In order to realise the problematic character...goes together with the utopian mentality.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT: Perm---Do Both</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We must reject the utopian vision of the 1AC in every instance—the success of the alternative depends on its ability to distance itself from fantasmatic politics</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stratavakis, 99 [Yannis—visiting fellow University of Essex, Lacan and the Political]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In fact, articulating...of political reality.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Any risk of a link crushes perm solvency—utopian politics must be rejected in every instance—the alternative needs a point to focus resistance</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stratavakis, 99 [Yannis—visiting fellow University of Essex, Lacan and the Political]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the face of the irreducibility...science in late modern societies.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Perm crushes alt solvency—traps us in the fantasy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stavrakakis, 99 – Visiting Fellow in Government at the University of Essex (Yannis, Lacan and the Political, p. 115-117, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The utopian fantasy of a perfect universal language...of political reality.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT: Cede the Political</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The alternative doesn’t cede the political—critical theory has never killed a progressive movement</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Brown, 05 (Edgework: Critical Essays on Knowledge and Politics, Wendy, Professor of Poli Sci, UC Berkeley)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> On the one hand, critical...their imaginative reach and vigor.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Only critical theory prompts social movements—only the Aff’s logic entrenches power structures</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Burch, 01 [ASSISTANT PF PHILOSOPHY OF EDUCATION, NORTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY Kerry, “The Significance of Critical Pedagogy for Cultural Studies” Theory & Event, 5:3, pg. Projectmuse ]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Giroux shows how...power (31, emphasis added).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We control uniqueness – the political is already ceded</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Grondin, 04 [David – Masters Political Science, Ph.D Canidate University of Ottawa, “(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies] PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> As American historian of...of existence are generated18.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Security Kritik (Generic)</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Discourses of danger reproduces an American identity – that posits the US as a the defender of global freedom and liberty</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Campbell, 98- Professor of International Politics University of Newcastle (David, Writing Security: United States Foreign Policy and the Politics of Identity)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The crisis of representation the United States faces...political identity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. That makes extinction inevitable</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Willson, 02- Ph.D New College San Fransisco, Humanities, JD, American University (Brian, “Armageddon or Quantum Leap? U.S. Imperialism and Human Consciousness from an Evolutionary Perspective”, http://www.brianwillson.com/quantum.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Awaiting the impending U.S....dangerously near the end of our evolutionary branch.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C. Alternative text – reject the affirmative to desecuritize the Political. Vote negative to challenge securitization itself in favor of a political ethic that approaches problems in non-security terms and exposes the limits of their methodology.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">D. Framework – security is a communicative action that requires discursive justification – there is an ethical responsibility to justify securitization in political discussion. The role of the ballot is to interrogate methodologies – to weigh their case the Aff has to legitimize securitization first</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Williams, 03 [Michael – IR Prof @ University of Ottawa, “Words, Images, Enemies: Securitization and International Politics,” International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 4 (Dec., 2003), pp. 511-53, Published by: Blackwell Publishing on behalf of The International Studies Association, JSTOR] http://www.jstor.org/stable/3693634</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A second major criticism of the...decision is challenged, either by questioning the policies, or by disputing the threat, or both.36</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Cheating Arguments</span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Biopower</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Modern war is all about defending identity – the Cold War was founded on the need to show the world what our country was made of. This makes nuclear war inevitable – the paradox of risking individual death for the sake of the collective ensures the war will always be the logical choice</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Campbell, 98 [David – Proffesor of International Politics University of Newcastle, Writing Security: United States Foreign Policy and the Politics of Identity]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The theory of police, as...techniques of power in the eighteenth century was the emergence of 'population' as an economic and political problem."</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Feminism</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Western security is derived on masculine politics who cause war and disregard the feminine values</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Blanchard, 03 (Eric, Professor of international relations at USC, Gender, “International Relations, and the</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> National security discourses...casualties.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Outweighs nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Reardon 93 (Betty, Women and peace: feminist visions of global security, p.39-40)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> War has always been...warfare go on unabated.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Framework</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Security discourse functions as an instrument to bring social practices into an institutionalized framework</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Huysmans, 02 [Jef—Ph.D, Professor University of Kent at Canterbury, “Defining social constructivism in security studies: the normative dilemma of writing security”] http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb3225/is_1_27/ai_n28906098/pg_5/?tag=content;col1</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The normative dilemma does not...publicly contested policy area. Thus, if successfully performed the speech act makes a security problem. (12)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Second, critical interrogations come before policies</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cheeseman and Bruce, 96 – *Senior Lecturer at New South Wales and Associate Professor in Social Sciences at Curtin University (*Graeme and Robert, "Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers", p. 5-9, 1996)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This goal is pursued in ways which...broader intellectual debates, or resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Third, Ethics – casting securitization as a speech act places that act within a framework of communicative action– in the context of public policymaking, they have an ethical obligation to justify security – this is essential to prevent serial policy failure and atrocities like the Iraq war – securitization is such a powerful tool that it can literally create truth because the securitizing actor holds an advantaged position. Endorsing their framework allows for rhetorical coercion of dissenting voices that paved the road to Baghdad</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Charrett, 09 [Catherine – International Catalan Institute for Peace, “A Critical Application of Securitizing Theory: Overcoming the Normative Dilemma of Writing Security”] http://www.gencat.cat/icip/pdf/WP7_ANG.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The capacity to create ‘truth’...terrorism that later paved the way for the invasion of Iraq (Krebs and Lobasz 2007).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, methodology is key</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bartlett, 90 [Katherine T.—Professor of Law Duke University, “Feminist Legal Methods, Harvard Review]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Feminists have developed extensive critiques...primary motivation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, the Aff’s advocacy is more than just the plan text—methodology determines everything</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jeffares, 07 [Stephen- PhD University of Birmingham, “WHY PUBLIC POLICY IDEAS CATCH ON: EMPTY SIGNIFIERS AND FLOURISHING NEIGHBOURHOODS ]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> To begin, the discursive institution...and element that binds others together.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT: Perm Do Both</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, the 1AC is incompatible with our alternative—a violent national ontology must be completely rejected to solve</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Wendt, 92 [Alexander—Professor at: Yale, Dartmouth, University of Chicago, Ralph D. Mershon Professor of International Security at the Ohio State University, Listed as the 3rd most influential IR scholar in the world in recent field study “Anarchy is what states make of it: the social construction of power politics”] PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The first reason is that once constituted...institutionalized, they are almost impossible to transform</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, the hegemonic representations of the 1AC silence the alternative</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Huysmans, 02 [Jef—Ph.D, Professor University of Kent at Canterbury, “Defining social constructivism in security studies: the normative dilemma of writing security”] http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb3225/is_1_27/ai_n28906098/pg_5/?tag=content;col1</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The critical quality rests...were silenced by the now dominant discourse.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, ontology – aff’s ontological assumptions prove our link arguments</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Wendt, 92 [Alexander - Professor at: Yale, Dartmouth, University of Chicago, Dartmouth, Ralph D. Mershon Professor of International Security at the Ohio State University, Listed as the 3rd most influential IR scholar in the world in recent field study, Social Theory of International Politics] pg. 370</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The subject of this book was...a better understanding.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Mini-Ks/Links/Turns Case Arguments</span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Overview</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Psychology proves their impacts are constructed</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jacobs, 3/8/10 – Journalist, Former Staff Writer for The LA Daily News (Tom, "The Comforting Notion of an All-Powerful Enemy", Miller-McCune, March 8th 2010, July 17th 2010, http://www.miller-mccune.com/politics/the-comforting-notion-of-an-all-powerful-enemy-10429/, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Citing a Psychologist -- Daniel Sullivan of the University of Kansas -- Ph.D. candidate in Social Psychology at University of Kansas</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We have seen the enemy, and he is...Less MSNBC and more meditation.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Afghanistan</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Withdrawing from Afghanistan leads to mechanized warfare that kills value to life</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Grove, 10 – PhD Candidate Johns Hopkins (Jairus, 3-16-10 http://contemporarycondition.blogspot.com/2010/02/new-wars-new-warriors.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I had no recollection of what it was. I assumed...game that would make me wish for hell's certainty and finality. This cannot be the best we can do.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Striving for Afghan stability is a metaphor for the desire of maintaining bio-political control</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Engelhardt, 09 – co-founder of the American Empire Project and contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, runs the Nation Institute's TomDispatch.com (Tom, “The Imperial Unconscious”, Foreign Policy In Focus, March 1st 2009, June 29th 2010, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Here, according to Bloomberg News...might be thought of as The Dictionary of American Empire-Speak.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC China</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Representations of China as a threat render war inevitable</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Pan, 04 [Chengxin, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, at Deakin University, August, Discourses Of ‘China’ In International Relations: A Study in Western Theory as (IR) Practice, p. 43-44]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Like the liberal construction of Other...clarity’ and ‘military strength’ are essential if Americans are to continue to be proud of their leading role in world affairs</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, our impacts are the most likely – once China is represented as a threat, nothing it does can deter the hawks in the U.S. from their commitment to go to war. This was proven by the Iraq war, where the lack of an objective threat couldn’t have stopped the war because of the way Iraq had been represented in the American imagination.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Pan, 04 [Chengxin, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, at Deakin University, August, Discourses Of ‘China’ In International Relations: A Study in Western Theory as (IR) Practice, p. 144-45]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thus, the problem is less about the lack...argue, the ‘threat’ argument as ‘scientific knowledge’ has shown its most hegemonic character. The following examples help us explain this point.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Democracy</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, a re-militarized international security framework marginalizes democratic promotion</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Large, 05 [Julia – International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance, “Democracy and Terrorism” The Impact of the Anti”] PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Given that events on and subsequent...stages of development.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, 9/11 is a perfect example – the framework of security allows for the suspension of democratic principle – by acting under the guise of reform, the 1AC’s securitizing rhetoric is in reality linked to a military agenda – this undermines democracy promotion</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Large, 05 [Julia – International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance, “Democracy and Terrorism” The Impact of the Anti”] PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">International response mechanisms are complex...words and actions, rhetoric and reality, will undermine legitimate means and advocates of democracy promotion.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Hegemony</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The American ethos is obsessed with superiority that ensures extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Willson, 03 [Brian – Ph.D New College San Fransisco, Humanities, JD, American University, “Dear America: An Open Letter to My Country”] < http://www.brianwillson.com/?q=node/13</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Once again you have shown your ever-increasing...your destructive behavior will create lose-lose for the world, and for us.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> We control terminal impact uniqueness – the American way of life will stop – the judge’s choice is between the alternative or the elimination of life on earth</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Willson, 00 [Brian – Ph.D New College San Fransisco, Humanities, JD, American University, “End of Cruel U.S. Policies Demands Radical Healing of the National Ethos”] < http://www.brianwillson.com/?q=node/72</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The attitudes and behaviors exhibited...depends for survival.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, the Aff is doomed to fail – the American ethic can’t address problems</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Willson, 95 [Brian – Ph.D New College San Fransisco, Humanities, JD, American University, “The Irredeemability of "America" and the Call for a Decentralist Revolution”] < http://www.brianwillson.com/?q=node/18></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We continue to foolishly believe that legislation...interconnectedness, our ancient dimension of mutual aid and cooperation.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Human Rights</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Violent nationalism crush human right co-operation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Wendt, 92 [Alexander - Professor at: Yale, Dartmouth, University of Chicago, Dartmouth, Ralph D. Mershon Professor of International Security at the Ohio State University, Listed as the 3rd most influential IR scholar in the world in recent field study, Social Theory of International Politics] pg. 8</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Regulating violence is...of violence internationally it is states one ultimately has to control.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Iran</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, Iran only developed nuclear weapons because of a fear of US attack and a need to defend itself – it’s the logical response to a world power that invaded it’s neighbors twice, and openly discusses invading Iran itself – the Aff’s discourse demonizes Iran, makes attack inevitable</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Herman and Peterson, 09 [Edward S., David – Global Research: Centre for Research on Globalization, “The Construction of the Iran "Threat": The Iran Versus the U.S.-Israeli-NATO Threats”] http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=15760</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It is spell-binding to see how the U.S....Czechoslovakia by the threatened country was the basis of great publicity and worry in the U.S. media.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, the ‘Iran threat’ was constructed to maintain US dominance and NATO expansion in post-Soviet Europe</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Herman and Peterson, 09 [Edward S., David – Global Research: Centre for Research on Globalization, “The Construction of the Iran "Threat": The Iran Versus the U.S.-Israeli-NATO Threats”] http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=15760</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Although it served as NATO's...is threat manufacture of an especially blatant sort, but the Free Press has made Russia's very lagged hostile reaction into a new Russian pugnacity.71</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Middle East</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Our framework arguments are true particularly in the context of their Middle East impacts – reps form policy actions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bilgin, 05 – Ph.D. in International Politics from the University of Wales, Department of International Relations Bilkent Univiversity (Aberystwyth, Regional Security in the Middle East 2005, June 29th 2010, p. 1, KONTPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Throughout the twentieth century, the Middle East...percent of the Iraqi population would become vulnerable to food insecurity' (Hurd 2003). Such concerns rarely make it into analyses on regional security in the Middle East.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Reps are the root cause of their impacts</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bilgin, 05 – Ph.D. in International Politics from the University of Wales, Department of International Relations Bilkent Univiversity (Aberystwyth, Regional Security in the Middle East 2005, June 29th 2010, p. 12-15, KONTPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Reflecting upon the history of US engagement...and contending conceptions of security, what they view as referent object(s), and how they think security should be sought in this part of the world.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC North Korea</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> North Korean instability is rooted in the exclusionary logic that is perpetuated by securitization </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Seng, 02 – Professor of Security Studies at IDSS Singapore (Tan See, ““What Fear Hath Wrought: Missile Hysteria and The Writing of America”, July 2002, June 30th 2010, IDSS Commentary, No. 28, p. 2, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Otherness, in Wolfowitz’s rendition, is also discursively...such constructions of identity through excluding contradictions and tensions that are as much a part of Self as it is of the Other.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Our framework is especially true in the context of their North Korean advantage – perceptions are distorted by hegemonic interests</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Shim, 08 – Ph.D. Candidate at GIGA Institute of Asian Studies (David, “Hegemonization and Contestation of Discursive Hegemony: The Case of the Six-Party Talks in Northeast Asia”, Paper Prepared for Presentation at the 2008 ISA, Production, 2008, June 30th 2010, www.allacademic.com/meta/p253290_index.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Laclau and Mouffe’s (2001: chapter 2) concept of hegemony...other words, the practices of problematizing North Korea took place even before an action was done.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Terrorism</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, the Aff misunderstands the logic of terrorism and marginalizes moderate groups turning the case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mustapha, 08 [Jennifer – Ph.D Canidate McMaster University, “Threat Construction in Post-9/11 US Foreign Policy Discourses: Implications for (Critical) Security in South Asia”] PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Among the things that do cause terrorism and fuel the...rules, with a longstanding history of pursuing violent strategies and supporting repressive regimes in the non-Western world“ (Hamilton-Hart 2005, 314).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, America over-amplifies the risk of the next terrorist attack to reify the American identity</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mustapha, 08 [Jennifer – Ph.D Canidate McMaster University, “Threat Construction in Post-9/11 US Foreign Policy Discourses: Implications for (Critical) Security in South Asia”] PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Built on this fear, a powerful...against which American identity is defined“ (Loeppky 2005, 92) is a frequent theme in the country‘s foreign policy discourse.7</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, the American identity causes terrorism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Wilson, 03** [Brian – Ph.D New College San Fransisco, Humanities, JD, American University, “Open-Ended Fast Reflecting Upon  A Quantum Leap in Consciousness:  Our Survival is at Stake”] < http://www.brianwillson.com/fast2003.html></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> An "easy" solution to the...E.F. Schumacher (New York: Harper & Row, 1973)].</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]</span>