[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
**PLAN**
**The United States federal government should withdraw its military presence from South Korea.**

**Contention 1 -- Structural Violence**

**South Korean prostitutes are subject to abuse, rape, and dehumanization by US military personnel. The argument that prostitutes choose this experience is a universalization which ignores the voices of the prostitutes.**
**Jeffreys**, University of Melbourne Political Science Professor, 200**9**
(Sheila, “The Idea of Prostitution.” Pp. 341-344, accessed 8-29-10, ASR) 
<span class="underline">Sandra </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% #ffffff;">Sturdevant ...</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">me after that.”</span>

**South Korean prostitution denigrates women’s integrity as human beings because US military troops dehumanize women into sub-human commodities.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jean Enriquez 99</span>** Executive Director of Coalition Against Trafficking In Women-Asia Pacific, “Filipinas in Prostitution around U.S. Military Bases in Korea: A Recurring Nightmare”, Seoul, South Korea, November 1999
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">CATW asserts that...</span>by trafficking in women.
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"><span style="font-size: 21px; line-height: 31px;"> </span></span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The impacts are systemic. Only withdrawing American military presence solves. </span>**
<span class="TagsChar">**Kirk and Okazawa-rey** 19**98**</span> (writers for The Women and War Reader, “Making Connections Building an East Asia-U.S. Women’s Network against U.S. Militarism” New York University Press. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gwynkirk.net/pdf/making_connections_paper.pdf]]</span>
Participants shared the view...<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">denied and covered up.</span>

**The systemic impacts of the affirmative far outweigh any manifestation of international conflict. Prioritizing the event of war over resistance to the systemic roots of the affirmative facilitates collective complacency and distracts attention from the broader effort to redress the harms of the status quo.**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Cuomo**, 1996. </span>[Chris, J. War is not just an event: Reflections on the significance of everyday violence, __Hypatia__, Vol. 11, no. 4, pg. proquest] 
Philosophical attention to...is directly threatened, and at that point it is

**Contention 2 -- Gendered Orientalism**

**Military prostitution in Korea is sustained by racist depictions of Asian women—the legacy of US occupation exacerbates racism in both Asia and the United States.**
**Moon** **97** – Professor of Political Science at Wellesley College, Department of Political Science and Edith Stix Wasserman Chair of Asian Studies (Katherine, “Sex among Allies” 1997, p. 33-35, ) 
In Olongapo and Angeles...in massage parlors and brothels.


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Korean prostitution represents a unique intersection of colonial power, patriarchy, and class based discrimination. </span>**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Pyong Gap </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Min</span>**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">. Professor of Sociology at Queens College, December </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">'03</span>**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">. "Comfort Women": The Intersection of Colonial Power, Gender, and Class. <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/3594678.pdf]]</span>, </span>
The victimization ...victims of sexual slavery.

**Military violence is neither natural nor inevitable—war is sustained by gendered systems of identity like military prostitution.**
**Enloe 93** – Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley (Cynthia Enloe, “The Morning After: Sexual Politics at the End of the Cold War” p. 245-248, ) 
Conquerors' mistresses, wartime rape victims...__most analytically interesting__.

**Contention 3 – Solvency**

**Intervening at the site of military prostitution allows us to challenge the masculine international order as a whole.**
**Enloe 93** – Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley (Cynthia Enloe, “Bananas, Beaches and Bases” p. 16-18) 
It's true that in international ...<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">have scarcely begun to fathom.</span>

**U.S. military presence in South Korea is the root cause of prostitution. Although it is illegal, the US military makes prostitution a thriving industry.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dujisin 9</span>**, Zoltan, July 7 2009, “Prostitution Thrives with US Military Presence”, Inter Press Service News Agency, http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=47556 
Since 1945, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% #ffffff;">U.S. ...</span>to minimize their visibility.

**Representations of a dangerous world permeated by constant risk and nuclear war re-inscribe gendered hierarchies in the realm of international relations.**
**Enloe 93** – Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley (Cynthia Enloe, “Bananas, Beaches and Bases” p. 11-15 ) 
Making women<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> ...masculine presumptions.</span>

**Raising awareness of the harms of military prostitution spills over through feminist networks in the Asia-Pacific to affect national and international policies. The case of Korean comfort women exploited by the Japanese empirically prove.**
**Moon, 2009** Katharine H.S., “Military Prostitution and the U.S. Military in Asia,” [[http://ikjeld.com/en/news/81/military-prostitution-and-the-us-military-in-asia]], February 11, 2009, accessed 6-20-2010, ASR) 
But <span class="underline">in 1988, Yu..</span>.in the early-mid-1990s.

<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 0px; overflow: hidden;">﻿</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Korean prostitutes can redefine their gender and race through policy—alternatives that suggest radical actions such as destroying categories won’t solve.**﻿</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kimberlé Williams **Crenshaw**, Professor of Law at UCLA, 19**91** “Mapping the Margins: Intersectionality, Identity Politics, and Violence Against Women of Color”pg. 20-1</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">But </span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% #ffffff;">to say that.. </span>vacate and destroy it.

**Any r<span class="Author-Date">egulatory policies will fail. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Human Rights Examiner**, 2/8/**10** U.S.</span> military anti-prostitution/sex trafficking policy appears to be ineffective” [[http://www.examiner.com/x-24740-Norfolk-Human-Rights-Examiner%7Ey2010m2d8-US-military-personals-creates-demand-for-sex-trafficking-in-South-Korea|http://www.examiner.com/x-24740-Norfolk-Human-Rights-Examiner~y2010m2d8-US-military-personals-creates-demand-for-sex-trafficking-in-South-Korea]]
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Thriving demand ...</span><span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">as serious crimes.</span>

**Addressing military prostitution through a gender lens alone cannot solve. Engaging the political process in an interstate context is crucial to undermining the masculinist and racist norms in the military.**
Katherine H.S. **Moon**, Chair of Asian Studies at Wellesley College, 19**97** Sex Among Allies: Military Prostitution in U.S.-Korea Relations pg. 8-9, IA 
Although it is helpful ...<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">local military commanders.<span style="font-size: 10pt;">" 19 .</span></span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]