=Affirmative= 
=<span style="font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;">1AC PMCs Bronx</span>= 
Contention 1 is Inherency:

U.S. withdrawal from Iraq is inevitable – it’s just a question of pacing
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rauch ‘8</span></span>
JONATHAN RAUCH, columnist for National Journal, Graduate of Yale University, February 2008, Atlantic Magazine “Partisan Retreat” [[@http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/01/partisan-retreat/6561/]]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In 2009, a Democratic president might say … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">retreat would go any better.</span>


And, Afghanistan troop withdrawal inevitable
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">McManus 6/17 </span></span>[Doyle, Staff Writer, Los Angeles Times, 2010, Lexis] KLS
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">Yet when Gen. Stanley A. <span class="underline0">McChrystal,</span> … starting to draw down U.S. troops. </span>

And, Obama is increasing private security levels by 40% despite pledges not to
Siddique ‘10
Abubakar Siddique, Private U.S. Contractors Back In The Spotlight In Iraq, Afghanistan, January 8 2010, http://www.rferl.org/content/US_Use_Of_Private_Contractors_Back_In_Spotlight_In_Iraq_Afghanistan/1924419.html
Van Bijlert suggests that the … <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tend to override other concerns</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." </span>


Thus the plan: The United States federal government, specifically the US Congress, should terminate the contracts of private military contractors performing non-static missions in Afghanistan and Iraq.

Advantage 1 is Human Rights Credibility

Human rights review coming now – Opportunity for human rights leadership but PMC’s deck credibility
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fisher 10</span></span> (William April 27 http://www.globalpolicy.org/component/content/article/154-general/49006-us-to-face-litany-of-complaints-at-un-human-rights-council.html TBC 6/25/10)</span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Human rights groups are telling … </span>in double standards</span>," he added.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">PMCs are perceived as responsible for Abu Ghraib and other human rights violations</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> War Resisters 6</span></span> ([[http://www.wri-irg.org/node/560]] , date accessed: 6/26/2010) AJK
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">The USA section of Amnesty … <span class="underline0">experts at Abu Ghraib prison.</span></span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Torture undermines US credibility, destroys US soft power, and makes winning the war on terror impossible</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Pasha 9 </span></span>(Zain, a Meinig Family Cornell National Scholar (as well as Vice President of Operations), a Cornell Irwin and Joan Jacobs Scholar, http://www.rso.cornell.edu/ciar/journal/¸date accessed: 6/25/2010) AJK
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"><span class="underline0">First, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">using torture undermines international U.S. … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">winning the War on Terrorism.32 </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Soft power & perception are key to effective leadership – builds alliances, checks counter-balancing, maintains domestic support</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jervis 9</span></span> (Robert, professor of international politics at Columbia University, “Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective,” World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009, Muse) jl</span>
<span class="underline0">To say</span> that <span class="underline0">the system … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">splits were dangerous because they</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> entailed the risk that the Soviet Union would be emboldened. This reason for avoiding squabbles disappeared along with the USSR, and the point is likely to generalize to other unipolar systems if they involve a decrease of threats that call for maintaining good relations with the superpower. This does not mean that</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> even in this particular unipolar … </span><span class="underline0">leadership is benign</span>. [End Page 211]

US decline will explode into global nuclear transition wars – soft power is key to maintain predominance
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brzezinski 5</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Zbigniew, National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University, //The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership//, p. 2-4) jl</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> History is a record of change. a … </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">shape a more secure international environment</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.</span>

Advantage 2 is the Executive Power Doctrine

Deployment of PMC’s is causing overexpansion of executive power – this is key to the balance
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Avant 7</span></span> (Deborah, Prof of Polisci and Intl Affair and Director @ Institute for Global and International Studies, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2007_hr/070425-avant.pdf, AD: 6/23/10) jl</span>
<span class="underline0">Contracting</span> for <span class="underline0">foreign training has … the benefits of contracting out</span>.30

Overexpansion of executive war powers is a slippery slope – Congressional reclamation of this authority prevents spill over
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lobel 8</span></span> (Jules, Professor of Law, University of Pittsburgh Law School, Ohio State Law Journal, 69 Ohio St. L.J. 391, Lexis) jl
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many have criticized the Bush … nation's "first General and Admiral." [[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1277331032420&returnToKey=20_T9614109341&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.427454.0546060517#n9|n9]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Administration's position that it has exclusive power over tactical or battlefield operations finds some support in legal scholarship and Supreme Court dicta. In his 1866 concurring opinion in Ex parte Milligan, Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase observed that Congress could not enact legislation that "interferes with the command of the forces or the conduct of campaigns. That power and duty belongs to the President as commander-in-chief." [[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1277331032420&returnToKey=20_T9614109341&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.427454.0546060517#n10|n10]] Chase's dictum that Congress "cannot direct the conduct of campaigns" was repeated by the Supreme Court two years ago in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld. [[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1277331032420&returnToKey=20_T9614109341&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.427454.0546060517#n11|n11]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Justice Robert Jackson's concurring opinion in Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer also contains language that proponents of broad Presidential war power claim supports their position. [[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1277331032420&returnToKey=20_T9614109341&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.427454.0546060517#n12|n12]] In addition, extrajudicial statements by Supreme Court Justices support the President's [*394] exclusive Executive power to move troops and to direct campaigns. [[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1277331032420&returnToKey=20_T9614109341&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.427454.0546060517#n13|n13]] These statements notwithstanding, the Supreme Court has never invalidated legislation because it interfered with the President's Commander in Chief power to conduct military operations. [[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1277331032420&returnToKey=20_T9614109341&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.427454.0546060517#n14|n14]] </span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The Administration's claim of unchecked … </span></span>" are vested in Congress. [[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1277331032420&returnToKey=20_T9614109341&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.427454.0546060517#n18|n18]]

Overexpansion of executive powers gets modeled – causes international preemptive wars, loose WMDs, destruction of human rights, and collapses US leadership.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sloane 8</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(<span class="verdana">Robert D</span>, <span class="verdana">Associate Professor of Law, Boston University School of Law</span>, 88 B.U.U. Rev. 341, Lexis) jl</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> There is a great deal more … </span><span class="underline0">in the twenty-first century</span>.

Key to universalize democratic peace – none of their impact takeouts assume changes in democratic structure
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Damrosch 95</span></span> (Lori Fisler, Professor of Law, Columbia University, 50 U. Miami L. Rev. 181, Lexis) jl
<span class="underline0">The proposition is</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">now firmly</span> <span class="underline0">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">his own constitutional powers. [[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1277333534248&returnToKey=20_T9614263458&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.167448.24096239652#n31|n31]] </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Democratic <span class="Author-Date">governance</span> is key to avert extinction – prevents terrorism, genocide, and environmental destruction </span>**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diamond, 95 </span></span>
[Larry Diamond, a professor, lecturer, adviser, and author on foreign policy, foreign aid, and democracy.
“Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and instruments, issues and imperatives : a report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict”, December 1995, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/di.htm]
[[#q2s1]]<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">and prosperity can be built</span></span>.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">No risk of their turns – unchecked executive authority outweighs congressional hindrance of military effectiveness – two reasons</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Lobel 8</span></span> (Jules, Professor of Law, University of Pittsburgh Law School, Ohio State Law Journal, 69 Ohio St. L.J. 391, Lexis) jl
<span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">One might argue</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">,</span> however, that <span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">… </span>regulate and limit that power</span>.
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in; text-align: left;">
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage 3 is Spec Op’s </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PMCs are causing a Special Forces brain drain because of better pay and lack of competition clause – now is the key time to prevent a crisis</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Schwarzkopf ‘10 </span>**</span></span>
(Matthew, Graduate of Drake University in IR and Law, host of a blog about Foreign Policy called Foreign Policy 101; [[http://foreignpolicy101.com/2010/02/25/dangerous-trend-in-private-military-contracting/]] February 24th, 2010)

At one time or another … and make the transition easy.

US special forces are key to protecting Columbian oil pipelines
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kouri 8</span></span> (Jim July 27 http://www.americanchronicle.com/articles/view/69576 TBC 6/26/10)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With oil prices continuing to … </span><span class="underline0">, which will limit future training. </span>

Columbian oil is key to oil supply
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klare 2k</span></span> (Micheal T. professor of peace and world security studies May 4 http://www.alternet.org/story/9111/ TBC 6/27/10)</span>
This priority is clearly evident … hardly the case for Colombia.

Impact Scenario 1:

Sudden loss of key oil supplies independently kills 5 billion people
Heinberg ‘5
Richard Heinberg, Senior Fellow at the Post Carbon Institute, ‘5
(The Party's Over : Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies, p. 33) [Bozman]

The third danger of the … of the anticipated petroleum depletion.).

Scenario 2: Military Adventurism

Oil shocks necessitate military adventurism
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Quinn 6 (Staff writer at Newsweek Jane Bryant, //Newsweek//, “The Price of Our Addiction; For years to come, we'll be paying for our oil in both treasure and blood, as we fight and parley to keep ever-tighter supplies flowing our way.” April 26th 2006, Proquest.com Accessed 6/27/10) </span></span></span>
<span class="underline0">This throws our Iraq wars … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">unexploited oil reserves,</span> Klare says.</span>

Unrestrained military adventurism ensured by lack of political action creates cycles of endless war and extinction
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kellner, Social Sciences @ UCLA, ‘3</span></span> (Profsocial sciences- ucla, Douglas, An Orwellian Nightmare: Critical Reflections on the Bush Administration, http://www.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/essays/orwelliannightmare.pdf)KM
<span class="underline0">The Bush administration policy of … a life worthy of a human being</span>.

Contention 2 is Solvency

Termination solves
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Carter 4</span></span> [Phillip, lawyer, writer, and former officer in the United States Army, “How To Discipline Private Contractors,” Slate, http://www.slate.com/id/2099954]

<span class="underline0">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> first and </span><span class="underline0">easiest way … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">this decision to the courts.</span>

Private contracting in Iraq has … key to ending PMCs globally
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mbogo 07</span></span> -- Stephen Mbogo, staff writer, “African Contractors Hired to Offer Support to Forces in Iraq”, CBS NEWS, 9-18-07. http://www.studentnewsdaily.com/daily-news-article/african_contractors_hired_to_offer_support_to_forces_in_iraq/</span>

<span class="underline0"> Thousands of East Africans are … </span>expose them to enemy fire.

Our case is a prerequisite to any meaningful movement – nuclear war would lead to political repression and crushing of dissent
Martin ‘2
<span style="margin-left: 1in; text-indent: -1in;">(Brian, Professor @ Univ. of Wollongong, “Activism after nuclear war?””, 9/3/02)</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">In the event of nuclear … the aftermath of nuclear war</span>__.

Restricting PSCs to static security missions solves
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schwartz 10</span></span> [Moshe, Specialist in Defense Acquisition, “The Department of Defense’s Use of Private Security Contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan: Background, Analysis, and Options for Congress,” Congressional Research Service, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/R40835.pdf]

<span class="boldunderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Restrict armed security contractors to … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">situations in a highly fluid environment.</span>


PMCs make warfare inevitable—termination key
Twatio, 5-31
(Bill Twatio, Writer for the National Post, “Privatizing War; The Growth of corporate armies raises troubling legal and moral questions about who has the right to wield force,” //The National Post//, May 31st 2010 )
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">P.W. Singer estimates that the … </span></span>private industry," Minderbinder said. Prophetically
=Negative= 
==Wake Forest== 
Rd. 2 -- Westminster PM (UMich -- SoKo)
Team Spirit CP
SoKo Econ DA
SoKo Peacekeeping DA
Rogue States K
Case Defense
2NR: Rogue States K

Rd. 3 -- Lexington FC (Afghan COIN)
Seabees PIC
Failed States K
Small Business PTX
Case Defense
2NR: Failed States K

Rd. 6 -- BCC NM (Just War)
Cap K
Small Business PTX
Exceptionalism Defense
Case Turns
Util
2NR: Cap K
==Bronx== 
Rd. 1 -- Brooklyn Tech SR (NDI -- Spec Forces)
India Relations DA
Foucault K
Seabees PIC
Case (Solvency, Iran D, turns on stability)
2NR: DA + Case

Rd. 3 -- BCC NM (Just War)
Hillman K
Heg DA
India Relations DA
Util
Case Turns
One-card Ks on case
2NR: Hillman

Rd. 6 -- Centennial KP (Futenma)
Foucault K
RRW DA
China Containment DA
FTA CP
Case Defense and Turns
2NR: RRW, Case (Containment as turns on case)

Octofinals -- Beacon OS (Queers)
Foucault K
Hillman K
Bataille K
Case Turns
-Solvency Turns
-Focuault on Solvency
2NR: Hillman and Solvency Turns

===Foucault K rd 1+6 bronx=== 
=== === 
<span style="color: windowtext;">The affirmative conceives of peace as the end of war – in reality, the rule of law established by the victors are written in the blood of the victims – they become excluded at the base level of the law.</span>
<span class="Style3Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ELDEN</span></span> Professor of Poltics – Universty of Warwick <span class="Style3Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2002 </span></span>boundary 2 29.1
<span class="Style1Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">While my reading is informed … </span></span><span class="UNDERLINEChar">articulated on two races</span><span class="Style1Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">" (FDS, 51).</span></span>



**Geopolitical rationality is biopower and disciplinary power applied on an imperial scale – it guarantees intervention in the name of populations.**
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Anthony </span><span class="Style3Char">Burke 2002</span>****<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> (“APORIAS OF SECURITY</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">”, //<span style="color: black;">Alternatives: Global, Local, Political</span>//<span style="color: black;">)</span></span>**</span>
<span class="Style1Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In describing this productivity,</span></span> <span class="UNDERLINEChar">Foucault … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">a vector and rationality of power</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span>

**Their imperative to protect certain populations and the deeming of others as expendable necessitates killing in the name of security**
**__Dean__** prof soc @ Macquarie U Australia **__…__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">functioning of the modern state (232).</span>


**The alt: We must provide a micropolitical resistance to the societies of control – engage in micropolitics through lines of flight on a path away from exclusionary power**
**Shapiro 05** (Michael J. Shapiro, “Every Move You Make: Bodies, Surveillance, and Media,” //Social Text//, Summer 2005 )

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The government’s attempts at suborning … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">capture, a departure from “normalizing individualization</span>____.”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">29</span>

==<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Bataille K -- Octos vs. Beacon OS</span>== 

**We offer this debate to ecastic communication, sacrificing certainty to social exuberance. The 1AC models the political productivity of the state. More peace. More safety. More reason. More work. More talk. Less communication.**

**The status quo is tragedy. The 1AC is farce.**

**Act 1: The Annointing.**

**<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">T</span>he pups of war are yelping, and the 1AC adds their bark of protest to the chorus. Demands of restraint from the war machine mean nothing, for militarism thrives on the 1AC’s fascinated indignation.**

John **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hutnyk 2003 </span>**[Goldsmith College at University of London; //Critique of Anthropology// v. 23]

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bataille was clearly a militant against the war... Fair call, Georges Bataille. </span>


Act 2. The Cutting.

“Sacrifice the 1AC. Sever its head, flay its corpse, and wear its skin.”

Sacrificial theater offers a moment of transfiguration. Risk this intimate encounter with death to give your life meaning beyond mere existence and duration.

Liran **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Razinsky 2009</span>**
[The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, //SubStance// #119, Vol. 38, no. 2, 2009]

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Thus we see that the stakes are high... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">which inscribe it in the general order of things.</span>


Act 3 The Feast

Sacrificing the goods of the 1AC enacts liberation, challenging the utilitarian logic that culminates in extinction.

Jesse **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goldhammer 2005</span>** [Lecturer/Instructor, Institute of Government Studies, U.C. Berkeley, //The Headless Republic: Sacrificial Violence in Modern French Thought// p. 10-14]

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">In chapter 4,1 examine how the renegade surrealist Georges Bataille... </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">pregnant with a new political order.</span>__**

==__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Seabees PIC</span>__== 


**__US Seabees are stabilizing the region through reconstruction now__**

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Park 9</span></span>

(Aaron W, http://edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/theses/2009/Sep/09Sep_Park.pdf, AD: 6/27/10) jl

Failure to reconstruct causes spikes in terrorism that destabilize the middle east and the world
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bond and Klinger 7</span></span> (Margaret S - Colonel in US Army Reserve, Janeen - Project Adviser, http://www.comw.org/qdr/fulltext/0703bond.pdf, AD: 6/27/10) jl</span>


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Alexander '3</span>