[[toc]]
[[2010-2011 — Edina (MN) — Mimi Sergent-Leventhal & Erin Sielaff|Back to Main Page]]

=Russia Relations DA= 





==1NC - Greenhill (vs. GBS HJ)== 


US-Russia relations good now – START Treaty and Iran sanctions prove

Thai Press Reports, 6/21 [“United States/Russia Senior U.S. Diplomat Praises Improved Relations With Russia,” June 21, 2010; Accessed nline at LN]

Section: General News - The [...] high-tech industry. – PNA


U.S. Withdrawal from Afghanistan causes Russia expansionism, kills U.S.-Russian Relations, undermines U.S. Hegemony, and increases terrorism

Gordon M Hahn 5/21/2009 senior researcher, Monterey Terrorism Research and Education Program, and visiting assistant professor, Graduate School of International Policy Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, California; senior researcher, Center for Terrorism and Intelligence Studies (CETIS), Akribis Group, California; and analyst/consultant. “U.s. Russian relations and the war against jihadism" http: www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf p. 8-9 ZM

However, there is some space [...] only benefit the region’s jihadists.6


Sustained US-Russian relations prevent multiple scenarios of war and ensure US Leadership
Nixon Center 3
(“Advancing American Interests and the U.S.-Russian Relationship Interim Report” The Commission on America’s National Interests and Russia. The Nixon Center. Sept. 2003. http: www.nixoncenter.org/publications/monographs/FR.htm)

The proper starting point in thinking [...] a potential source of political support.

==1NC Warming Impact - Michigan (vs. GBS SV)== 


Relations access warming and turn case
Graham 8 [Thomas Graham, foreign service officer on academic leave with RAND in Moscow from 1997 to 1998. He previously had several assignments in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, including head of the Political/Internal Unit and acting political counselor. Between tours in Moscow, he worked on Russian/Soviet affairs as a member of the policy planning staff of the State Department and as a policy assistant in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Mr. Graham has a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University and a B.A. in Russian studies from Yale University. July 2008 http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080717_graham_u.s.russia.pdf] 

What trends? Simply put [...] building lasting security and economic structures. 


Warming causes extinction – only stronger efforts can solve and now is key
Cummins and Allen 10 (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)

From an ethical, legal, [...] disease, war, and starvation.


==2NC Overview== 

Magnitude – our evidence is comparative - 
Russian war is the only scenario for extinction 
Nick Bostrom, Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University, March 2002, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards 

A much greater existential risk emerged [...] will encounter in the 21st century.



==2NC Uniqueness== 

Cooperation is at a record high – military cooperation proves good relations are here to stay 
AFP 9/15/10 (“ US, Russian defense chiefs promote deeper ties ” http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5gi9BijkAdKAefw69i8Rhhr25z-rQ)

US Defense Secretary Robert Gates and [...] nuclear program, US officials said. 



==2NC Links== 

Pulling out of the Middle East hurts U.S.-Russia relations

Mikhailenko ‘03, Valerii Ivanovich, Russian political analyst, “Russia in the New World Order: Power and Tolerance in Contemporary International Relations;” Demokratizatsiya, Spring 2003. Vol. 11, Iss. 2; pg. 198, http://proquest.umi.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqdweb?index=5&did=592386251&SrchMode=1&sid=1&Fmt=3&VInst=PROD&VType=PQD&RQT=309&VName=PQD&TS=1278265744&clientId=17822

To what extent can Russian foreign [...] the world situation and of Russia.


U.S. Withdrawal from Afghanistan hurts U.S.-Russia relations – Russia has emphasized long term interest in Afghanistan, leaving puts Russia at risk
Katz 10, Mark, Professor of Government and Politics George Mason University, “Understanding Russia’s Approach on Afghanistan, Pakistan” Eurasian.net, June 25, 2010, http://www.eurasianet.org/node/61407

Back in 2001, in the [...] the Taliban and its Pakistani supporters.


Russia objects to U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan – they’d have to clean up our mess
Rashid ‘09, Ahmed, Pakistani journalist, “Obama must decide on talks with the Taliban” New India-Times, New York, N.Y.: May 7, 2010. Vol. 41, Iss. 19; pg. 3, 1 pgs

Pakistan has demanded President Karzai close [...] their neighbors. - The Washington Post

==2NC Economy Impact== 

U.S.-Russian relations cause economic recovery
HAMILTON 3 (Lee, Director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and Former Chairman of the House Committee on International Relations, The International Economy, June 22)

While it has proven premature to [...] of a return to Russian expansionism.



==2NC Hegemony Impact== 

U.S. hegemony depends on Russian support
Simes 2003 
[Dmitri, President of the Nixon Center, FDCH Political Testimony, 9-30]

At the same time, U [...] determined to resist, or not).


==2NC Middle East Stability Impact== 


U.S.-Russian Relations Are Key To Middle East Peace 
VERSHBOW 4 (ALEXANDER, US AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA, STATE DEPARTMENT APRIL 22, 2004)

Russia has thus far reacted cautiously [...] deal with terrorism at its source.


==2NC Terrorism Impact== 

U.S./RUSSIA PARTNERSHIP KEY TO CHECKING NUCLEAR TERRORISM—LIKELY TO BE SUCCESSFUL
ALLISON (Douglas Dillon Prof., Gov’t & Dir., Belfer Center for Science & Int’l Affairs, JFK School of Gov’t, Harvard) ‘04 [Graham, “How to Stop Nuclear Terrorism,” Foreign Affairs, January/February, v. 83, n.1, ASP]

As the preceding discussion suggests, [...] the nuclear club would quickly follow. 




=India DA= 



==1NC - Valley (vs. Homewood Flossmoor OS)== 

India is increasing its presence in Afghanistan —Pakistan perceives this as a threat

Scheuer, 10 [Michael Scheuer, author of Imperial Hubris and former chief of the CIA’s Bin Laden Issue Station, “Coming Nuclear Flashpoint,” The Diplomat, August 30, 2010, http: the-diplomat.com/2010/08/30/the-coming-nuclear-flashpoint/?print=yes]

In their usual ahistorical manner, [...] . And perception is always reality.

US presence key to prevent Indo-Pak war

Scheuer, 10 [Michael Scheuer, author of Imperial Hubris and former chief of the CIA’s Bin Laden Issue Station, “Coming Nuclear Flashpoint,” The Diplomat, August 30, 2010, http: the-diplomat.com/2010/08/30/the-coming-nuclear-flashpoint/?print=yes]

All this sets the stage for [...] the bones of one Indian grenadier.


Independently, plan kills relations

Kaplan, 10 – senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security (August 2010, Robert D., “South Asia’s Geography of Conflict,” www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf)

He or she who sits in [...] on how we perform in Afghanistan. 

Key to solve prolif

Burns, 5 – Undersecretary for Political Affairs (Nicholas Burns, Under Secretary for Political Affairs, 9-8-05, Congressional Testimony before the House International Relations Committee, “The U.S. and India: An Emerging Entente?” http: www.nti.org/e_research/official_docs/dos/dos090805.pdf)

A strong democratic India is an [...] these programs have for both countries. 

Global nuclear war

Cimbala, 10 - Prof. of Political Science @ Penn State, (Stephen, Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century, p. 117-8)

Failure to contain proliferation in Pyongyang [...] , thus triggering a mistaken preemption.



=Dip Cap DA= 


==1NC - St Marks (vs. GBN SS)== 


Plan kills relations – Pakistan doesn’t want the U.S. to withdraw before putting a stable and broad-based government in place
Dawn, 2009 – (11/15/09, Dawn, Pakistan's oldest and most widely-read English-language newspaper, “US cautioned against hasty Afghan pullout,” Lexis)

Islamabad, 13 Nov: Pakistan [...] balance of power in South Asia.


Pakistani terrorist cooperation is essential – the majority of terrorist plots from 2004-2009 emerged from groups directed or trained in Pakistan
Cruickshank 2010, Alumni Fellow at the NYU center on Law and security, [Paul, “Al Qaeda’s Ground Zero”, 4/01 http: afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/04/01/al_qaedas_ground_zero] HURWITZ

Some of signals coming out of [...] by established jihadist groups in Pakistan. 


New disease control models allow us to effectively reduce diseases to extinction and predict rises in activity means no chance of an unpredicted out of control disease outbreak
Ira, American Physical Society, 2009 (Schwartz, “Fluctuations in epidemic modeling - disease extinction and control” Physical Society, 2009 APS March Meeting, March 16-20, 2009, abstract #D7.003http: adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2009APS..MAR.D7003S) 

The analysis of infectious disease fluctuations [...] disease where random vaccinations are prevalent. 


=Bulgaria DA= 

==1NC - MN RR (vs. Wayzata ES)== 

US-Bulgarian relations high over Afghanistan – new troop deployments and defense focus
RTT News ’10 “Bulgaria To Beef Up Troop Strength In Afghanistan” 10/26 http://www.rttnews.com/Content/GeneralNews.aspx?Id=1457472&SM=1&SimRec=2

(RTTNews) - Bulgaria is [...] Afghanistan," as its main topic. 


Afghanistan is a litmus test for US-Bulgarian relations – allows strategic coordination
Warlick ’10 Ambassador James B. Warlick, “New Partnership: Shared Values, Common Interests”
Atlantic Club of Bulgaria Sheraton Hotel, Sofia, published in the Standart, 2/13 http://paper.standartnews.com/en/article.php?d=2010-02-13&article=32194

Our greatest present threat lies in [...] logistics, maintenance, and supply. 


Plan would be a slap in the face to Bulgaria’s commitment of resources – undoes the coordinated comprehensive approach and falls outside NATO framework of unanimous mission coordination
Hurrieyet Daily News ’10 “Bulgaria vows to stay in Afghanistan 'until the end'” 10/28 http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/n.php?n=bulgaria-vows-to-stay-in-afghanistan-till-the-end-2010-10-28

Bulgaria will be setting no deadline [...] Afghanistan would require a comprehensive approach. 


US-Bulgaria relations have been key to Balkan stability
Warlick ’10 Ambassador James B. Warlick, “New Partnership: Shared Values, Common Interests”Atlantic Club of Bulgaria Sheraton Hotel, Sofia, published in the Standart, 2/13 http://paper.standartnews.com/en/article.php?d=2010-02-13&article=32194

The partnership between the United States [...] diplomacy and commitment to the region. 


Conflict in the Balkans will escalate to global nuclear war
Chicago Daily Herald, May 9, 1999, p. Lexis

We need to stop the war [...] war and incalculable self-destruction.




=Uniqueness CPs= 







==1NC - Greenhill (vs. GBS HJ)== 



The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of 1/3 of its forces in Europe. The United States Federal Government should close the Guantanamo Bay detainment facility and accept those affected by the closure into the United States of America. The United States Federal Government should effectuate a cultural engagement strategy in Afghanistan. 


The counterplan solves—a phased withdrawal saves money and allows forces to redeployed where needed 
Sustainable Defense Task Force 10—SDTF is a group of individuals from think tanks and political foundations and institutes (7/11/10, Report of the Sustainable Defense Task Force, Common Wealth Institute, “Debts, Deficits, and Defense A Way Forward” http: www.comw.org/pda/fulltext/1006SDTFreport.pdf) 

Conventional Forces – Options for Saving [...] for use worldwide, as needed. 

Closure solves terrorism, reputation, and soft power 
Massimino ‘8 (Elisa, CEO and Ex. Dir. Human Rights First, CQ Congressional Testimony, “RULE OF LAW; COMMITTEE: SENATE JUDICIARY; SUBCOMMITTEE: CONSTITUTION, CIVIL RIGHTS AND PROPERTY RIGHTS”, 9-16, L/N) 

Second, fueled by the assertion [...] commitment to treating all prisoners humanely. 

Tribal engagement resolves squo problems with the COIN strategy 
Gant, 9 – Major, US Army Special Forces (Jim, “One Tribe at a Time: A Strategy for Success in Afghanistan,” http: rohrabacher.house.gov/UploadedFiles/one_tribe_at_a_time.pdf 
Tribal Engagement Team (TET) challenges 

The situation at each tribe will [...] Information Operations (IO) campaign. 




=Counterterror CP (vs. Homewood Flossmoor OS)= 



CP Text: The United States federal government should change its strategy in Afghanistan to counterterrorism. 




=Case Answers= 







==Insurgency Answers== 






===1NC - Greenhill (vs. GBS HJ)=== 



1. The US will win - multiple reasons 
O’Hanlon 9 - Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings (Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, “In Afghanistan, The Odds Are With Us,” Brookings, December 14th, http: www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/1214_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx) 

We face huge challenges in Afghanistan [...] with us in this important mission. 


2. The war is winnable – larger numbers of troops, decreased civilian casualties and growing Afghan security forces will cause a peace deal 
Their, 10 - director for Afghanistan and Pakistan at the US Institute of Peace (J. Alexander, “Afghanistan’s Rocky Path to Peace,” Current History, April, 
http: www.usip.org/files/afghanistan/Thier%20-%20Path%20to%20Peace%20-%20Current%20History.pdf 

But several factors could conspire to [...] inform or even fight against them. 


5.The Afghan economy is improving and the population supports the U.S. 
Bergen,9 - Senior Fellow and the co-director of the Counterterrorism and Counterinsurgency Initiative at the New America Foundation (7/1/09, Peter, “Winning the Good War,” http: www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2009/winning_good_war_15908) 

Why should we believe that the [...] to let the grass grow back. 


No terrorism – hard to pull off, not many terrorists, and small attacks don’t cut it 
Schneier 5-5-2010 - masters degree in computer science from American University, chief technology officer and founder of BT Counterpane Internet Security (Bruce, “Why Aren't There More Terrorist Attacks?”, Schneier on Security, May 5th, http: www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2010/05/why_arent_there.html) 

As the details of the Times [...] to slip up and get caught. 


Al-Qaeda does not have nuclear capabilities—past evidence shows they won’t use nuclear attacks 
FROST 2005 (Robin, teaches political science at Simon Fraser University, British Colombia, “Nuclear Terrorism after 9/11,” Adelphi Papers, December) 

From time to time, it [...] fabricate a radiological dispersion device.’ 


Terrorists can’t get nuclear weapons by any means 
FROST 2005 (Robin, teaches political science at Simon Fraser University, British Colombia, “Nuclear Terrorism after 9/11,” Adelphi Papers, December) 

Nonetheless, there is considerable evidence [...] country under the protection of one. 


The Pakistan army won’t allow the transfer of nuclear weapons to the Taliban 
Simon, and Stevenson, 9 * adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009 http: www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409) 

The United States' next logical move [...] of nuclear weapons to the Taliban. 


No chance of US retaliation to non-nuclear attacks – 2010 NPR proves 
Rogin, 10 (Josh, 4/6/10, “Obama embraces missile defense in nuclear review,” Foreign Policy, http: thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/04/06/obama_embraces_missile_defense_in_nuclear_review) 

The document claims that missile defense [...] deterrence burden," the review reads. 



===1NC - MN RR (vs. Wayzata ES)=== 

FIRST, COIN key to solve – multiple warrants
George Grant, Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director, 2010, “Succeeding in Afghanistan”, The Henry Jackson Society, http://www.worldsecuritynetwork.com/documents/Succeeding_in_Afghanistan.pdf

The argument that has run throughout [...] as so many seem to think. 


SECOND, COIN is key to intel gathering, turns case
George Grant, Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director, 2010, “Succeeding in Afghanistan”, The Henry Jackson Society, http://www.worldsecuritynetwork.com/documents/Succeeding_in_Afghanistan.pdf

Though the separation of the population [...] insecurity with it whenever it appears. 


Winning the war now
Max Boot, Senior Fellow in National Security Strategies, 9/2/10, “Afghanistan: The Case for Optimism”, Council on Foreign Relations, http://www.cfr.org/publication/22878/afghanistan.html

The operation appears to be a [...] the country apart in the 1990s.


COIN checks Taliban takeover
George Grant, Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director, 2010, “Succeeding in Afghanistan”, The Henry Jackson Society, http://www.worldsecuritynetwork.com/documents/Succeeding_in_Afghanistan.pdf

Insurgencies are, in almost every [...] its allegiance to the government altogether.


CT fails – 3 reasons 
Riedel and O’Hanlon, 09 [Bruce, Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy at Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy at Brookings, “Why We Can't Go Small In Afghanistan,” Brookings, September 24, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0924_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx]

The fundamental reason that a counterterrorism [...] war, there is little choice.


CT fails – Somalia proves
Bennet, 09 [Richard, research associate in national security studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, recently returned from a research trip to the Horn of Africa, “A Recipe for Somalia: A light footprint won’t work in Afghanistan. Just look at the Horn of Africa for all the reasons why not,” 10/13, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/13/is_afghanistan_the_new_somalia?page=full]

As the Afghanistan strategy review dominates [...] al-Shabab and Hizbul Islam.



==Hegemony Answers== 




===1NC - Greenhill (vs. GBS HJ)=== 


Ending counterinsurgency leads to Taliban takeover, risking Afghan and Pakistan Collapse, prolif, and nuclear war 
Kagan and Kagan, 9 - * former prof of military history @ West Point AND military historian (Fredrick W., Kimberly, “Don't Go Wobbly on Afghanistan”, 10/12/2009, http: www.aei.org/article/101110) 

It is very likely that the [...] involving the use of nuclear weapons. 


And, that occurs in 24 hours 
Bergen, 9 - Senior Fellow and the co-director of the Counterterrorism and Counterinsurgency Initiative at the New America Foundation (8/1/09, Peter, “Two Arguments for What to Do in Afghanistan,” http: www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2009/two_arguments_for_what_to_do_in_afghanistan_13510) 

In August, President Obama laid [...] Afghan army are still so weak. 


It also destroys US leadership and conflict mediation capabilities globally 
Kissinger, 10 – former Secretary of State (6/24/10, Henry, The Washington Post, “America Needs an Afghan Strategy, Not an Alibi,” http: www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/06/23/AR2010062302193.html) 

Yet America needs a strategy, [...] in Afghanistan as well as internationally. 


Credible conflict resolution must be backed by the credible threat of US resolve – vital to preventing nuclear conflicts globally 
Bosco, 06 (David, senior editor at Foreign Policy magazine, Los Angeles Times, “Could This Be the Start of World War III?”, 7/23, http: www.latimes.com/news/opinion/commentary/la-op-bosco23jul23,0,7807202.story?coll=la-opinion-center) 

IT WAS LATE JUNE in Sarajevo [...] Russia or China would respond militarily. 


U.S. Hegemony will never collapse 
Friedman 09 [George Friedman is an American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. He has authored several books, The Next 100 Years p 13-31] 

We are now in an America [...] century will be the American century. 


Demise of the dollar overstated-weak European economies, Chinese wouldn’t let it happen, and Japan will stabilize 
Hugh 10 -Macroeconomist who specializes in growth and productivity theory (“Interview with Edward Hugh: The Dollar’s Demise is Vastly Overstated,” Blog Invest, 4/30/10, http: trick-bloggerinvest.blogspot.com/2010/04/interview-with-edward-hugh-dollars.html) 

Forex Blog: You wrote a [...] movements in one direction or another. 

No offense-arguments for dollar hegemony fail 
Palley 2 – US based economist, Director of Globalization Reform Project Open Society Institute (Thomas Palley, “THE OVER-VALUED DOLLAR AND THE U.S. SLUMP,” October 2002, http: www.thomaspalley.com/docs/articles/macro_policy/overvalued_dollar.pdf) 

The arguments against an over- [...] income identity from which they derive. 


US economic leadership is permanently tanked – can’t overcome alt causes 
Kim 2010 – Policy Analyst in Heritage's Center for International Trade and Economics, master's degree in international trade and investment policy from the Elliott School of International Affairs at the George Washington University (4/12, Anthony, Heritage Foundation, “A trade war averted for now”, http: blog.heritage.org/2010/04/12/a-trade-war-averted-for-now/, WEA) 

So, a trade war was [...] America’s leadership in advancing free trade. 


3. Afghanistan doesn’t kill heg 
Bergen, 09 - Senior Fellow and the co-director of the Counterterrorism and Counterinsurgency Initiative at the New America Foundation (7/1/09, Peter, “Winning the Good War,” http: www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2009/winning_good_war_15908) 

Objections to Obama's ramp-up [...] the Soviets' command of the air. 



==Russia Expansionism Answers== 

===1NC - MN RR (vs. Wayzata ES)=== 

Russia doesn’t have the means to expand its sphere of influence
Zhukov 8 (Yuri, PhD in government from Harvard, Masters with Honors from Georgetown, and AB with honors in International Relations, “A Russian Sphere of Influence is Geopolitical Reality” http://www.nextamerica.org/node/460)

Russia’s intervention in the Georgian- [...] these weaknesses for the foreseeable future. 


Collapse of Russia’s sphere of influence causes power vacuum, proliferation and instability 
Zhukov 8—Ph.D. candidate, Harvard, Dept. of Government. Masters with Honors, Georgetown School of Foreign Service (Yuri, A Russian “Sphere of Influence” is Geopolitical Reality, http://www.nextamerica.org/node/460, AMiles)

Finally, a policy of neo [...] limits of what it can achieve. 


Russian influence is essential to prevent a nuclear war with Russia or China
Newsweek 1995 (Michael Elliott, “Why Russia still matters to America,” May 15) 

"Russia," says Deputy Secretary [...] think May was nice, too.) 


Efforts to block Russian sphere of influence doom US-Russia relations and risks war
Eland, 2008 [Ivan, Nov, Sr. Fellow, Independent Inst., former Defense Analyst for Congressional Budget Office, The Independent Institute, http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2363]

But the bear is now coming [...] tension and possibly even cataclysmic war.


=Australia DA= 

==1NC - Harvard (vs. GBS HJ)== 

Relations high but on the brink – lack of conclusion over Afghanistan 
ABC 8/11/10 (Australian Broadcasting Corporation, “ Close Allies ” http://www.abc.net.au/7.30/content/2010/s3060678.htm)

KERRY O'BRIEN, PRESENTER: US Secretary … dangerous objects in space. 


Withdrawal crushes relations – Australia is committed to long-term engagement and maintaining troop levels 
Pak Tribune 1/19/11 (“ UK, Australia say 2011 ‘critical’ in Afghanistan ” http://www.paktribune.com/news/index.shtml?235585)

SYDNEY: Australia and Britain warned … of extremist attacks seen in the past.


US/Australian relations key to avoid space disaster
Business Recorder 11/8/10 (“ US, Australia agree plans on space surveillance ” http://www.brecorder.com/news/latest/15362:us-australia-agree-plans-on-space-surveillance.html)

Australia and the United States plan …international cooperation to avoid a potential disaster. 


Extinction
Jeff Hech, M.Ed. Higher Education –MA in Electronic Engineering - Editor @ Laser Focus World, ’84 [Beam Weapons: The Next Arms Race, p. 10-11]

It’s only appropriate that the obstacles …triggering an ultimate escalation to World War III.



==1NR Links== 

Plan kills relations – Afghanistan is a unique site for cooperation 
Bloomberg 11/7/10 (“ Gates Says U.S. to Increase Asia Military Presence, Australia Defense Ties ” http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/gates-says-u-s-to-increase-asia-military-presence-australia-defense-ties.html)

Australia and the U.S. are … space and counter-terrorism efforts.


Leaving Afghanistan kills relations – Australian commitment 
Sydney Morning Herald 11/8/10 (“ Australia can manage US, China ties: Smith ” http://news.smh.com.au/breaking-news-national/australia-can-manage-us-china-ties-smith-20101108-17jek.html)

"We support the commitment to Afghanistan but … get mutual benefit from that," she told Sky News. 


Australia is in Afghanistan for the US
Venturini 1/12/10 - formerly an avvocato at the Court of Appeal of Bologna, taught, administered, and advised on, law in four continents, ‘retiring’ in 1993 from Monash University Senior Associate in the School of Political and Social Inquiry at Monash; he is also an Adjunct Professor at the Institute for Social Research at Swinburne University, Melbourne. (Venturino Giorgio, “ Why Is Australia Involved In Afghanistan? ” http://www.countercurrents.org/venturini120111.htm)

Time has revolved the ‘reasons’ …passe-partout which is ‘the national interest’. 


Australia is concerned with maintaining high troop levels in Afghanistan 
Venturini 1/12/10 - formerly an avvocato at the Court of Appeal of Bologna, taught, administered, and advised on, law in four continents, ‘retiring’ in 1993 from Monash University Senior Associate in the School of Political and Social Inquiry at Monash; he is also an Adjunct Professor at the Institute for Social Research at Swinburne University, Melbourne. (Venturino Giorgio, “ Why Is Australia Involved In Afghanistan? ” http://www.countercurrents.org/venturini120111.htm)

Moving forward to deal with …arguably a client state of the U.S., is not a party in NATO. 


Australia is interested in long-term involvement in Afghanistan 
Venturini 1/12/10 - formerly an avvocato at the Court of Appeal of Bologna, taught, administered, and advised on, law in four continents, ‘retiring’ in 1993 from Monash University Senior Associate in the School of Political and Social Inquiry at Monash; he is also an Adjunct Professor at the Institute for Social Research at Swinburne University, Melbourne. (Venturino Giorgio, “ Why Is Australia Involved In Afghanistan? ” http://www.countercurrents.org/venturini120111.htm)

The Prime Minister expressed … Australia will remain engaged.”


==1NR Asia Impact== 

Relations key to Asian stability 
The Star 11/7/10 (“ US, Australia expand ties with an eye on China ” http://thestar.com.my/news/story.asp?file=/2010/11/7/apworld/20101107132125&sec=apworld) 

Ahead of that meeting, U.S. … for this new century," he said. 


Asia is the most probable scenario for escalation 
Tellis 4—Senior Associate at Carnegie. PhD from U Chicago. Served in the U.S. Department of State as Senior Advisor to the Ambassador at the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, and briefly on the National Security Council staff as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Strategic Planning and Southwest Asia (Ashley, Assessing America’s War on Terror: Confronting Insurgency, Cementing Primacy, December 2004, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/NBRAnalysis-Tellis_December2004.pdf, AMiles) 

One analyst, Gaurav Kampani, …disaster- prone region in the world.89 


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]