[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==__1AC-Meadows__== 
**Afghanistan is the global basing location for drone strikes**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turse 10</span>** Nick Turse is a fellow at New York University’s Center for the United States and the Cold War and the winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/|__http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/__]]</span> d.a. 7-27-10
<span class="Highlight"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: medium; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-left-width: medium; border-right-style: none; border-right-width: medium; border-top-style: none; border-top-width: medium; font-size: 12pt;">The Air …</span></span>quite literally, __paid.__

<span style="margin-top: 0.1pt;">Deployment of drones is set to double in 2011
Chris <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jenks</span></span>, Chief of the International Law Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>, University of North Dakota Law Review, “Law From Above: Unmanned Aerial Systems, Use Of Force, And The Law Of Armed Conflict”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.law.und.nodak.edu/LawReview/issues/web_assets/pdf/85-3/85NDLR649.pdf]]</span></span>
In September 2009, … targeted assassination, and outright murder


<span style="font-size: 14pt;">CONTENTION 2 IS VIRTUAL WARFARE</span>
Mechanized drone warfare pixallizes the enemy, hiding the suffering of the victim
James <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian</span></span>, Professor of Political Science at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and Research Professor of International Relations at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">00</span></span>, “Virtuous War/Virtual Theory”, jstor,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/2626459.pdf]]</span>
So, is the virtualization of violence a …<span class="Highlight"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: medium; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-left-width: medium; border-right-style: none; border-right-width: medium; border-top-style: none; border-top-width: medium; font-size: 12pt;"> on the same screen</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline">**.**</span>


Virtual war separates the pilot from any ethical relation to the victim
Derek <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gregory</span></span>, Department of Geography University of British Columbia at Vancouver, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">06</span></span>, Arab World Geographer, “‘In another time-zone, the bombs fall unsafely….’Targets, civilians and late modern war*”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://web.mac.com/derekgregory/iWeb/Site/The%20city-as-target_files/%27In%20another%20time%20zone%27_illustrated-2.pdf]]</span>
<span class="Highlight"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: medium; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-left-width: medium; border-right-style: none; border-right-width: medium; border-top-style: none; border-top-width: medium; font-size: 12pt;">The second refinement of late …</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"> been injured and killed there.</span> 34

This facilitates enemy construction—simulations of war replace reality with our misconceptions of the enemy
James <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian</span></span>, Professor of Political Science at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and Research Professor of International Relations at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span></span>, “War as a Game”, Brown Journal of World Affairs p. 45-46
The charge of moral equivalency—… unfolding of events, or at least a comforting conclusion.


**Continued drone deployment creates a Playstation killing mentality – it is impossible to assess a value system when lives are reduced to games**
Paul **Koring**, foreign correspondent, The Globe and Mail, June 4, 20**10**, “U.S. drone strikes blur the lines of war, UN warns,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/americas/us-drone-strikes-blur-the-lines-of-war-un-warns/article1591920/]]</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;">__Reapers and Predators__ – the grimly-named missile-firing <span class="Highlight"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: medium; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-left-width: medium; border-right-style: none; border-right-width: medium; border-top-style: none; border-top-width: medium; font-size: 12pt;">…</span></span>warned Mr. Alston, in his 29-page report to the to the UN Human Rights Council.</span>


It is our ethical obligation to condemn the distancing mediatization of drone warfare
Derek <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gregory</span></span>, Department of Geography University of British Columbia at Vancouver, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">06</span></span>, Arab World Geographer, “‘In another time-zone, the bombs fall unsafely….’Targets, civilians and late modern war*”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://web.mac.com/derekgregory/iWeb/Site/The%20city-as-target_files/%27In%20another%20time%20zone%27_illustrated-2.pdf]]</span>
On the other side, this erasure …t<span class="Highlight"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: medium; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-left-width: medium; border-right-style: none; border-right-width: medium; border-top-style: none; border-top-width: medium; font-size: 12pt;">urn to those frail bodies.</span></span>


<span style="font-size: 16pt;">THUS THE PLAN:
The United States federal government should renounce all of its remotely piloted vehicle programs in Afghanistan.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">CONTENTION 3 IS ETHICS</span>
The State is the beginning of all violence-not helping those who aren’t “its own” ignores responsibility which is the root cause of all violence.
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aronowicz, prof Judaism Franklin and Marshall, 2006</span></span>
Annette Aronowicz, professor of Judaic studies at Franklin and Marshall College, Summer 2006, “Levinas and Politics”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://66.102.1.104/scholar?q=cache:5L5lnjhcUSgJ:scholar.google.com/+levinas%2Bholocaust%2Bpolitics&hl=en]]</span>
What remains after so much bloodshed …<span class="DebateUnderline">ssible: for it is not only a question of seizing the evil-doer but also of not making the innocent suffer</span>(Levinas 1990:
110).


Current politics dooms us to violence - the only escape is through a norm of ethics
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fasching, professor of Religious Studies at South Florida, 1993</span></span>
Darrell J. Fasching, Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, “The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima”
Our modern technological civilization … apocalyptic self-destruction.


The aff’s focus on product is critical to adopting a proper ethical stance. Focus of process divorces this stance.
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Van Oenen, lecturer phil Erasmus, 2006</span></span>
Gijs Van Oenen, senior lecturer in the department of philosophy at Erasmus University Rotterdam, “A Machine That Would Go of Itself: Interpassivity and Its Impact on Political Life,” Theory and Event, 2006 (Project Muse)
<span class="reduce2">This metaphor signifies of course …</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> is involvement with itself.</span>

Policymakers have a personal responsibility to be ethical in their political decisions
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simmons, associate prof social sciences ASU, 2003</span></span>
William Paul Simmons, associate professor of social sciences at Arizona State University, 2003, “An-Archy and Justice: An Introduction to Emmanuel Levinas’s Political Thought”
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Politically, Levinas asks whether …a<span class="DebateUnderline">greement with the other history</span>?"</span>


Survival is not a value in itself- risks are part of life. We must uphold rights to avoid policy paralysis. Pure pragmatism fails.
Shue 89 <span style="text-decoration: none;">[</span><span class="FontStyle17"><span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">Henry </span></span><span class="FontStyle18"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Shue, </span></span><span class="FontStyle17"><span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">Professor of Ethics and Public Life, Princeton University, </span></span><span class="FontStyle18"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">1989 </span></span><span class="FontStyle17"><span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">(Nuclear Deterrence and Moral Restraint, pg. 45-6) (PDCL1167)]</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.5pt; margin-top: 11.3pt;"><span class="FontStyle17"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">When we pursue …and </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: medium; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-left-width: medium; border-right-style: none; border-right-width: medium; border-top-style: none; border-top-width: medium; font-size: 10pt;">moral reasoning</span></span><span class="FontStyle17"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span></span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ethics are a pre-requisite to utilitarian calculations, if we win our ethical framework then you vote aff before you ever consider a body count. Voting neg denies the value to life.</span>**
Manning, <span class="CitesChar">Professor of theology and philosophy at Quincy University,</span> 1993
(Robert, , Intepreting Otherwise than Heidegger, p. 123-125)
This is really the …ultimately, <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: medium; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-left-width: medium; border-right-style: none; border-right-width: medium; border-top-style: none; border-top-width: medium; font-size: 10pt;">violence</span></span><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and tyranny.</span></span>



<span style="font-size: 14pt;">CONTENTION 4 IS SOLVENCY</span>

U.S. has shifted its drones to Afghanistan from Iraq
**Barnes 10** Julie, LA Times reporter U.S. Shifting Drone Focus to Taliban
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://2scottmontgomery.blogspot.com/2009/07/los-angeles-times-us-shifting-drones.html]]</span>
But <span class="Highlight"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: medium; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-left-width: medium; border-right-style: none; border-right-width: medium; border-top-style: none; border-top-width: medium; font-size: 12pt;">the Obama …</span></span>, officials said.

**Thousands of drones are being surged**
**Press TV 10** US deploys 1000s drones in Afghanistan <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.presstv.ir/detail.aspx?id=125382&sectionid=351020403|__http://www.presstv.ir/detail.aspx?id=125382&sectionid=351020403__]]</span> d.a. 7-27-10
<span class="Highlight"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: medium; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-left-width: medium; border-right-style: none; border-right-width: medium; border-top-style: none; border-top-width: medium; font-size: 12pt;">The US is deploying …</span></span> Middle East <span class="Highlight"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: medium; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-left-width: medium; border-right-style: none; border-right-width: medium; border-top-style: none; border-top-width: medium; font-size: 12pt;">region</span></span>.

**The surge is substantial—The military impact of the drones dwarfs the impact of the ground troop surge**
**Turse 10** //Nick Turse is a fellow at New York University’s Center for the United States and the Cold War and the winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction// <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/|__http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/__]]</span> d.a. 7-27-10
What were once …and Reaper drone flights through

**Current US drone use sets precedent**
**Horton 10** (Scott, A New York attorney known for his work in emerging markets and international law, especially human rights law and the law of armed conflict, Horton lectures at Columbia Law School, “The Trouble with Drones” May 3 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.harpers.org/archive/2010/05/hbc-90006980]]</span>, 06/25/10. HR)

<span style="margin-left: 0.1in;">__No weapons system … a vehicle for targeted killings.__</span>
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]