[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Cites and other stuff - [[mailto:kviveth@gmail.com|kviveth@gmail.com]]
==1AC - round 7 NDCA== 
First i want to acknowledge teh fact that Will wasn't the 2a for this. 
We read this aff agianst the Race K
im really lazy & will deleted the 1AC soooooo
- i'll give u a run down of what it was (we'ere probably not going to read this)

Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw all military presence from Afghanistan

Advantage 1- diplomcacy (same as below) - only warming impact

Advantage 2 - Structural violence
A. COIN is an excuse to murder the afghanis
B. COIN murders the ethinic population - murders their cluture and kills innocent people- ignore structual race problems
C. Striving for afghan stabiltiy is a form of cultural domination that cause a biopolitical reign of the afghanis
D. Afghani war kills the culture of the afghanis

Impacts - 
Cuomo - Militarsm focus / Pos peace
Culutral survival = Drule
Biopwer - Foucoult
No nuclear war - nuke war is racist

Solvency - 
Plan solves 

==COIN 1AC - NDCA== 

Will cut this and its beautiful. 
<span class="s1">**NDCA 1ac**</span>
<span class="s1">**Plan Text** </span>
**Plan:**
**The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of United States counterinsurgency troops in Afghanistan.**

<span class="s1">**ADV 1**</span>
**Advantage 1- Deterrence**
**Reducing COIN in Afghanistan is the only way to make U.S. efforts sustainable, but a small footprint allows for deterrence**
<span class="s2">**Stewart, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights, 9**</span> Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan)

<span class="s1">The best Afghan policy would be to reduce the number of </span><span class="s3">… </span><span class="s1">and work out how to work with fewer troops and less money over a longer period. In Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more.</span>

**Also, perception of the Afghanistan quagmire destroys deterrence and hamstrings the military**
<span class="s2">**Haass 10** </span>(Richard N. Haas, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, “Let’s Un-Surge in Afghanistan,” 12/20/10)
http://www.cfr.org/publication/23669/lets_unsurge_in_afghanistan.html

To justify adopting a more narrow policy toward Afghanistan this spring … It is for this reason that the perspectives of Gen. Petraeus and President Obama must necessarily diverge.
**Coin specifically causes overstrech**
<span class="s2">**Boyle, Lecturer in International Relations and Research Fellow at Univ of St. Andrews, 10**</span> Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?**”** http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract)

<span class="s1">This episode indicates the extent of the confusion over counterterrorism</span><span class="s3"> …</span>
<span class="s1">as they treat</span><span class="s3"> an ever-increasing number of localized </span><span class="s1">insurgencies as the incubators of future terrorist threats.</span>
**Overstretch kill deterrence, causes Nuclear wars and miscalc**
<span class="s2">**Florig, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, 10**</span> (Dennis, “Hegemonic Overreach vs. Imperial Overstretch,” 2/6, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/Delivery.cfm/SSRN_ID1548783_code1259934.pdf?abstractid=1548783&mirid=1)

There is an even larger question than whether the U.S. will remain the hegemonic state within a western dominated system. …
Some of the burden the hegemon has to assume is inevitable, but <span class="s4">the U.S. is particularly prone to massive miscalculation. </span>

**Ending COIN in Afghanistan prevents future activist warfare.**
<span class="s2">**ASG 11**</span>
The Afghanistan Study Group 1-13-2011 (“The Military-Industrial Complex and the Future of COIN”, January 13th,[[http://progressiverealist.org/blogpost/military-industrial-complex-and-future-coin]])

January 17th marks the fiftieth anniversary of Dwight D Eisenhower’s farewell .... Let’s hope Professor Adams is right.

**That’s key to deterrence**
**Goure 10**
Daniel Goure, Vice President of the Lexington Institute, former Director of the Office of Strategic Competitiveness in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, former Deputy Director of the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, holds an M.A. and Ph.D. International Relations and Russian Studies from Johns Hopkins University and a B.A. in Government and History from Pomona College, 2010 (“Future Defense Budget Choices Require Clear Strategic Priorities,” Early Warning Blog—the official blog of the Lexington Institute, September 3rd, Available Online at http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/future-defense-budget-choices-require-clear-strategic-priorities?a=1&c=1171,)

<span class="s1">The United States cannot afford its national security strategy. </span><span class="s3"> … </span><span class="s1">Instability, insurgency and terrorism must take lesser priority. The consequence of this means focusing more on capabilities related to air and sea power, outer space and cyber space. </span>

**Force flexibility is the only way to preserve pre eminence**
**Grant 09** – Research Analyst @ Lexington Institute w/ emphasis on joint doctrine, air power, aerospace defense [Dr. Rebecca Grant (PhD in International Relations from the London School of Economics and Former lecturer at Air University and Air Command and Staff College, Maxwell Air Force Base), “Global Deterrence: The Role of F-22,” Lexington Institute, February 2009]

However, the balance may be shifting again. In the last two years, <span class="s1"> … </span>and whether they turn out to be occasional jostling or more serious face-offs. Pg. 1-3

**Ending Coin is key to a politically sustainable defense budget- this is key to our military power**
**McGregor and Dombey 3/6**
[ Richard McGregor is a reporter for the Financial Times and the publication's former China bureau chief, Daniel Dombey is the FT’s US Diplomatic Correspondent, covering the State Department, the Pentagon, the US intelligence agencies and foreign and national security policy generally. Based in Washington, he covers issues such as the dispute over Iran’s nuclear programme, policy towards Afghanistan and Pakistan and the US’s bilateral relations with established and emerging world powers. He also follows debate on related issues in the US Congress. Other areas he focuses on include Washington’s diplomatic scene and the work of the US capital’s many think-tanks. 3/6/11, Financial Times, [[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/695f48d8-4823-11e0-b323-00144feab49a.html%22%20%5Cl%20%22axzz1G2vpnUWe|http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/695f48d8-4823-11e0-b323-00144feab49a.html#axzz1G2vpnUWe]]]

All this – in parallel with <span class="s1">$185bn to modernise America’s nuclear weapons</span> [ … ]Northrop is spinning off its shipbuilding unit.

**The guiding impact is Great Power War**
**Khalilzad 2/8**<span class="s6">/11 </span>
[Zalmay Khalilzad, United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992<span class="s7">.</span> [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]]

We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid economic growth. […] <span class="s8">Still, </span><span class="s4">the United States is the most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression.</span>


**Prefer our impacts- they are the most probable**
**Mearsheimer**, **1** (professor of political science at University of Chicago, //The Tragedy of Great Power Politics//, pg. 361, 2001)

<span class="s1">The optimists' claim that security competition and war among the great powers has been burned out of the system is wrong […]</span>
<span class="s1"> Northeast Asia for the explicit purpose of keeping the major states in each region at peace.</span>

**Specifically, withdrawal is key to prevent a hostile China rise and war**
<span class="s9">**Paal 11/2**</span> (Douglas H. Paal, vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, served as vice chairman of JPMorgan Chase International and as unofficial U.S. representative to Taiwan as director of the American Institute in Taiwan, was on the National Security Council staffs of Presidents Reagan and George H. W. Bush as director of Asian Affairs, and then as senior director and special assistant to the President, held positions in the policy planning staff at the State Department, as a senior analyst for the CIA, and at U.S. Embassies in Singapore and Beijing, studied at Brown and Harvard Universities, “China: Actions Belie Rhetoric,” 11/2/10) [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41882]]

A recent senior Chinese official visiting Washington bluffly told listeners not to pay attention to what’s said in China’s media, but to listen to the words of China’s leaders.[…]. If the United States requires the traditional interval to regenerate itself, that may give China further time to mistakenly estimate the correlation of forces.

**This goes Nuclear**
<span class="s9">**Dodge 5**</span> (Paul, Department of Defense and Strategic Studies – Missouri State University, “China’s Naval Strategy and Nuclear Weapons: The Risks of Intentional and Inadvertent Nuclear Escalation”, Comparative Strategy, 24(5), December, p. 415-416)

<span class="s10">In the summer of 2005, […] </span><span class="s1">that the full escalatory dangers of Chinese warfighting strategy may be revealed. </span>

**Even a limited War Causes Extinction**
<span class="s3">**Takai ‘9,** </span>Retired Colonel and Former Researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force (“U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, October 7, [[http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/]]]

<span class="s3">What would happen</span><span class="s4"> […] </span>Accordingly, the FAS and NRDC conclusively advised U.S. leaders to get out of the vicious cycle of nuclear competition, which costs staggering sums, and to promote nuclear disarmament talks with China. Such advice is worth heeding by nuclear hard-liners.




<span class="s1">**ADV 2**</span>
**Adv 2- Diplomacy**
**Current Afghan strategy makes winning the war impossible**
**ASG 10**
Afghanistan Study Group 8-16-10 ("A NEW WAY FORWARD: RETHINKING U.S. STRATEGY IN AFGHANISTAN", http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/NewWayForward_report.pdf)

President Obama has repeatedly said that we are fighting in Afghanistan in order to prevent the country […]
<span class="s1">Protecting our vital interests requires a fundamentally different approach. </span>

**Even if we are winning in some areas, we are still losing key aspects**
**Cohen 4/7**
[Michael Cohen, Straight Thug and senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, 4/7/11, [[http://www.democracyarsenal.org/2011/04/further-confirmation.html%22%20%5Cl%20%22comments|http://www.democracyarsenal.org/2011/04/further-confirmation.html#comments]]]

<span class="s1">One of the key elements about US policy in Afghanistan</span><span class="s3"> […] </span><span class="s1">before we shift our strategy to what actually is possible? </span>

**Coin shreds US effective diplomacy**
<span class="s2">**Haddick 10**</span> (Robert Haddick, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, former Marine Corps Officer, holds a B.A. and M.B.A. from the University of Illinois, “This Week at War: The Afghanistan Vortex,” Foreign Policy, June 25, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/25/this_week_at_war_the_afghanistan_vortex]])

<span class="s4">Afghanistan is becoming a deepening vortex for</span> […] But such a course would have its own risks, which Obama has presumably considered and rejected.


**That’s key to solve every international problem-including iran and warming**
<span class="s2">**Cohen 09**</span> (11/30, Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ... ", http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html)

<span class="s4">Sending from 30,000 to 40,000 troops to that tumultuous […] </span>The opportunity costs will be profound, and Obama will risk becoming the one thing he likely did not want to be: a war President.

**Warming causes Extinction**
Lester R. <span class="s2">**Brown**</span>, founder of the Worldwatch Institute and the Earth Policy Institute, <span class="s2">**08**</span>
[“Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization,” http://www.earth-policy.org/index.php?/books/pb3]

Researchers such as James Hansen, a leading climate scientist at NASA, believe that global <span class="s4">warming […] Civilization itself could begin to unravel</span> under these extreme stresses.



**Specifically, A major withdrawal from Afghanistan is vital to credible diplomacy to denuclearize Iran – prevents proliferation and nuclear war**
<span class="s11">**Garfinkle 9**</span> – editor of The American Interest, former professor of Middle East Politics at the University of Pennsylvania and at the School of Advanced International Studies of The Johns Hopkins University (Adam, “<span class="s12">[["http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/mesh/2009/11/the-real-linkage-afghanistan-and-iran/" \o "Permanent Link to The real linkage: Afghanistan and Ira|The real linkage: Afghanistan and Iran]]</span>,” 11/4,<span class="s5"> <span class="s13">[[http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/mesh/2009/11/the-real-linkage-afghanistan-and-iran/%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/mesh/2009/11/the-real-linkage-afghanistan-and-iran/]]</span></span>)
As President Obama decides how to proceed in the Afghan war, he needs to add one more variable that is rarely mentioned: Iranian determination to acquire nuclear weapons<span class="s4">[…]</span>. And <span class="s4">Tehran’s knowledge that all U.S. military options are off the table is not liable to be helpful. </span>

**And Ending coin key to Iran Co-operation**
**Kenney 11/29**<span class="s5">/10</span>
[ Edward Kenney, writer for Afghanistan Study Group, [[http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/2010/11/29/112910-afghanistan-update/]], ]
The Lisbon conference also highlighted the growing public feud between Washington DC and Kabul. At Lisbon, Obama responded sharply to Karzai for his recent comments criticizing U.S. special operations and night raids […]<span class="s4"> This is what should “alarm” and “infuriate” anyone who favors a sensible policy in Afghanistan. </span>

**Iran is acquiring weapon grade material now**
<span class="s2">**Henderson 3-5**</span> [Simon Henderson is a Baker fellow and director of the Gulf and Energy Policy Program at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, “Arab World: New evidence of Iran’s nuclear ambitions”, March 5th, 2011,<span class="s15"> <span class="s12">[[http://www.jpost.com/Features/FrontLines/Article.aspx?id=210731%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.jpost.com/Features/FrontLines/Article.aspx?id=210731]]</span></span>, Chetan]
Tehran admitted the existence of the latter facility in 2009, days before it was revealed by US and European surveillance. […]Nuclear devices for missiles must also be more durable than those dropped from aircraft because they need to cope with the huge acceleration and high reentry temperatures associated with rocket launches.

**Iranian proliferation leads to pre-emptive nuclear strikes and broader Middle East proliferation**
<span class="s2">**Edelman et al 11** </span>[Eric S. Edelman is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9. Andrew F. Krepinevich is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. Evan Braden Montgomery is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. “The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran”, Foreign Affairs; Jan/Feb2011, Vol. 90 Issue 1, p66-81, 16p, Chetan]
<span class="s5">Given Israel's status as an assumed but undeclared nuclear weapons state</span><span class="s1">, […]due to a heightened sense of threat, a desire for prestige, domestic pressure, or all three. </span>

**Extinction**
<span class="s17">**Hirsch 06**</span> - Professor of physics @ University of California, San Diego. [Jorge Hirsch, “Israel, Iran and the US: Who Will be Blamed for Nuclear War?,” <span class="s1">Global Research</span>, July 24, 2006, pg. [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=2807%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=2807]].]

In the end of course we will all lose. […]
<span class="s1">And then the blaming will wither away as</span><span class="s6"> a three-billion-year old experiment, </span><span class="s4">life on planet Earth, comes to an end</span>**.**

**No risk of turns – even if there is a short term decline in credibility – withdrawal sustains long term leadership**
<span class="s2">**Innocent and Carpenter, CATO, 9** </span>*foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND **vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)**

**Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode America’s Global Status […]**
**<span class="s3">Overall, </span><span class="s1">remaining in Afghanistan is more likely to tarnish America’s reputation and undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal.</span>**

Iran prolif causes chain reaction of fast proliferation, causes preventive nuclear war
Wimbush 7** (Enders, senior fellow at Hudson Institute and director of its Center for Future Security Strategies.1/11/“The End of Deterrence: A nuclear Iran will change everything.”]
<span class="s1">.A nuclear Iran will</span> change all of the critical strategic dynamics of this volatile region[…] Small, emerging nuclear forces could also <span class="s1">raise the risk of preventive war, as leaders are tempted to attack before enemy arsenals grow</span>bigger and more secure.


==COIN 1AC - GFCA State== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of United States counterinsurgency troops in Afghanistan.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Counterinsurgency is failing in Afghanistan, taking away important resources needed in other international disputes, and building up the Taliban – failure is inevitable</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Afghanistan Study Group 8-16-10 ("A NEW WAY FORWARD: RETHINKING U.S. STRATEGY IN AFGHANISTAN", http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/NewWayForward_report.pdf)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">President Obama has repeatedly said that …. requires a fundamentally different approach.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Advantage 1 is Hegemony</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The current mixture of counterinsurgency and counterterrorist strategies kills heg.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Boyle, Lecturer in International Relations and Research Fellow at Univ of St. Andrews, 10 Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?” http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This episode indicates the extent ,,, the incubators of future terrorist threats.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">And it causes political exhaustion, withdrawal helps our reserves</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Kretkowski, 10</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;"> – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog),<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html]]</span>)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Over the winter break I had an epiphany about the interrelation of U.S. hard and soft power: </span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">I</span> </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">now </span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">oppose</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> a ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Such challenges may involve humanitarian crises (think Darfur, a Rwanda-style genocide, Indian Ocean tsunamis); Latin American instability (Mexico, Venezuela, post-Castro Cuba); rogue-state nuclear development (Iran, North Korea); or complex challenges from a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia).</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Also, perception of the Afghanistan quagmire destroys deterrence and hamstrings the military</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Haass 12/20 (Richard N. Haas, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, “Let’s Un-Surge in Afghanistan,” 12/20/10)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">http://www.cfr.org/publication/23669/lets_unsurge_in_afghanistan.html</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">To justify adopting a more narrow policy toward Afghanistan this spring, President Obama would need to cite several factors ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">But it is the commander-in-chief's responsibility to take into account the nation's capacity to meet all of its challenges, national and international. It is for this reason that the perspectives of Gen. Petraeus and President Obama must necessarily diverge.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Coin shreds US effective diplomacy**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="s1">**Haddick 10**</span> (Robert Haddick, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, former Marine Corps Officer, holds a B.A. and M.B.A. from the University of Illinois, “This Week at War: The Afghanistan Vortex,” Foreign Policy, June 25,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/25/this_week_at_war_the_afghanistan_vortex]]</span>)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="s2">Afghanistan is becoming a deepening vortex for</span><span class="s3"> both the </span><span class="s2">U</span><span class="s3">nited </span><span class="s2">S</span><span class="s3">tates ... </span>But such a course would have its own risks, which Obama has presumably considered and rejected.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Effective Diplomacy key internal link to sustaining US Credibility and Leadership**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="s1">**Cohen 09**</span> (11/30, Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ... ", http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="s2">Sending from 30,000 to 40,000 troops to that tumultuous nation will likely wreak havoc on Obama's ... </span>The opportunity costs will be profound, and Obama will risk becoming the one thing he likely did not want to be: a war President.</span>




<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">No risk of turns –Withdrawal sustains long term leadership and credibility</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Innocent and Carpenter, CATO, 9 *foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Former national security adviser Henry Kissinger, … undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Reducing COIN in Afghanistan is the only way to make U.S. efforts sustainable.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Stewart, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights, 9 Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The best Afghan policy would be to reduce …. In Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Extinction</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kagan, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 7 [Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Finally, there is the United States itself. … global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Advantage 2 is the Insurgency</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">COIN fails in Afghanistan – tactical progress ignores key flaws and makes winning the war impossible</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Cohen 12/27</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;"> (Michael Cohen, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, “The Lost Year in the Afghan War,” 12/27/10)<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.aolnews.com/2010/12/27/opinion-the-lost-year-in-the-afghan-war/]]</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">The Counterinsurgency Disconnect While the West Point speech was supposed to clarify U.S. policy in Afghanistan, ... </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">to dig in and wait out U.S. forces rather than quickly ending the war.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">We will lose the war in Afghanistan – multiple reasons</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First: No local support</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Dorronsoro, scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, 10 expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia (5/11/10, Gilles, “Karzai comes to Washington,” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40779)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Current U.S. strategy in Afghanistan … further eroding the coalition’s political capital.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Second: Lack of understanding and geographic complexity</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Bandow, Senior Fellow at CATO, 10-7-10 (Doug, "Book Review: Afghanistan: A Cultural and Political History", http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12458&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+CatoRecentOpeds+(Cato+Recent+Op-eds))</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Nine years after the United States … Jalalabad represent very different peoples and experiences.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Third: A large military footprint plus perception of an illegitimate government</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Galston, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies a Brookings, 10 (William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Are the basic premises of our current policy in Afghanistan fatally flawed?</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The fact that I feel compelled to pose this question so soon after the …presence and political force in Afghanistan.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Fourth: Poor intelligence</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Welch, Reporter on Afghanistan Policy, 10 (Dylan, "Afghan War Unwinnable Quagmire, Ex-CIA Man Says", Sept 1, http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2010/09/01-5)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">THE war in Afghanistan is an unwinnable … allow the Coalition to win in Afghanistan.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Impacts:</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First – Pakistan – COIN drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Taliban – leads to collapse</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Akhtar, professor of International Realtions, Baluchistan University, 10 (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#1)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">If it is a war against extremists … moment, thus destabilizing the state.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Draws in China, India, Russia</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Pitt, New York Times, 9 international bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed … about addressing the situation. So should we all.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Second – nuclear terrorism – the risk of a nuclear attack against from Afghanistan or Pakistan towards the US is high</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Wohlstetter, Senior Fellow at Discovery Institute and form advisor to the DoD, 10 (John, Letter from the Capitol: a global cyber-tour of events and analysis pertaining to war, security, economic & cultural issues, “LFTC - Nuclear Terrorism Threat Growing?,” 2010, 2-2, http://www.letterfromthecapitol.com/letterfromthecapitol/2010/02/lftc-nuclear-terrorism-threat-growing.html)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Of all the WMD threats, nuclear weapons … WMD threat persists and grows as Pakistan's stability erodes.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Nuclear terrorism causes extinction</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Sid-Ahmed, Political Analyst, 4 [Mohamed, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A nuclear attack by terrorists will …the whole planet, we will all be losers.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Withdrawal will kill Al-Qaida’s support globally</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Farrall,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Senior Counter-Terrorism Intelligence Agent, <span style="background-color: aqua;">9</span></span></span> Australian Federal Police (Leah, “Al-Qaida prefers U.S. to stick around,” The Australian, November 12th, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/opinion/al-qaida-prefers-us-to-stick-around/story-e6frg6zo-1225796639320]]</span>)</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And statistical data is on our side – occupation is the root cause of terrorism</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Pape 10 - professor at the University of Chicago and is co-author of Cutting the Fuse: The Explosion of Global Suicide Terrorism and How to Stop It.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[10/18/10 "It's the Occupation, Stupid" http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/18/it_s_the_occupation_stupid?page=0,3]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">New research provides strong evidence that … in fact, they are at the heart of the problem.</span>


==Japan 1AC - UGA== 
Contention 1- Inherency

Futenma is not being moved off of Okinawa now- Kan is failing to resolve opposition.
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">The Japan Times Online</span>__, <span style="font-weight: normal;">12-18-</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10</span>__
(“Kan pays Futenma first visit” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20101218x3.html]]</span>)

NAHA, Okinawa Pref. (Kyodo) Prime … <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">would be moved out of the prefecture</span></span>

**Resolving the Futenma issue now is key to sustain the long-term security alliance**
<span class="s1">**Kelman 2/20/11**</span> - writer for Pacific Daily News "US, Japan debate Futenma" http://www.guampdn.com/article/20110221/NEWS01/102210301/US-Japan-debate-Futenma

<span class="s2">The Department of Defense ... </span><span class="s1">which gives the Okinawa governor final authority over reclaimed land.</span>




Tensions are rising now- only closing down the Futenma base can solve.
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Dyer</span>__, <span style="font-weight: normal;">journalist and former intelligence analyst, who served internationally for US Naval intelligence from 1983 to 2004</span>, __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10</span>__
[[#_Toc141422198]]<span class="Author-Date"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">,” </span></span><span class="NothingChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://hotair.com/greenroom/archives/2010/03/11/past-time-to-rethink-our-approach-to-japan/]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">”)</span></span>

But <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">the current situation</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> is troubling, because</span></span> … to think ahead of current conditions to what will.

**The alliance is structurally strong but functionally weak – a new bargain on Japanese security is key**
<span class="s1">**Finnegan 9**</span><span class="s2">**,** </span>Senior Research Associate at The National Bureau of Asian Research (NBR), the principal investigator and led an interdisciplinary team assembled by NBR for this project, a Northeast Asian security specialist, former Senior Country Director in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, and former Special Assistant for Regional Security to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs, 20<span class="s3">09</span>, [Michael, National Bureau on Asian Research, “Managing Unmet expectations in the U.S.-Japan Alliance”] SM

Although the two partners are not looking at the alliance through the lens of potential failure, one actor certainly is ... <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;"><span class="s1">It may indeed be time for a new bargain on Japanese security.</span></span>


**Plan: The United States federal government should close the Marine Corps Air Station Futenma and implement a phased withdrawal to the point of elimination of all Marines stationed on Okinawa, except for the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit.**

Contention 2- Solvency


Multiple internal links to the alliance

<span class="DebateUnderline"> 1. Grassroots movements and total base closure </span>
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Auslin 10</span>__**
(Michael, director of Japan studies at the American Enterprise Institute, “The Real Futenma Fallout” 6/22/10<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/102196]]</span>)

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A great sigh of relief erupted in Washington …his predecessor and should work to heal them. </span></span>


<span class="DebateUnderline"> 2. Public Opposition </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">MSNBC, 09 </span>__
(“U.S., Japan wrangle over ‘most dangerous base’” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/34618216/ns/world_news-asia-pacific/]]</span>)

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Futenma facility, home to about 2,000 Marines…<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">,</span> another Okinawan city, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">sparked intense protests</span></span></span>

3. Equal alliance
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Yamaguchi 10,</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">Professor at the National Defense Academy of Japan, National Defense Academy of Japan graduate, Master’s from the Fletcher School of Law & Diplomacy, former Visiting Scholar at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard, form Senior Defense Attached at the Embassy of Japan in the U.S., former Vice Commandant of the Japan Ground Self Defense Force Ground Research & Development Command, & former Deputy Director of the National Institute for Defense Studies, 3-17-10</span>
<span style="color: black;"> (Noboru, “Beware Resignation in Washington Toward the Japan-US Alliance,”</span> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.tokyofoundation.org/en/articles/2009/beware-resignation-in-washington-toward-the-japan-us-alliance]]</span><span style="color: black;">)</span>


In this context<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, we must not forget the asymmetry in the …existence as a state may be altered fundamentally. </span></span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"> 4. Obama- Kan relations </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Smith,</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">Senior Fellow for Japan at the Council on Foreign Relations, 7-26</span><span style="color: black;">-</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10 </span>__
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: black;">(Sheila, “Successful U.S.-Japan agenda must meet public expectations,”</span> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://e.nikkei.com/e/fr/tnks/Nni20100728D28JF008.htm]]</span><span style="color: black;">)</span></span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Our shared interests are broad,</span></span> and the means by … <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">a</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> vibrant and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">confident</span> U.S.-Japan <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">partnership</span></span></span>


Contention 3- Alliance Good

Scenario One- Asian Stability

Maintaining a strong U.S.-Japan alliance is key to deterring Chinese aggression and preventing complete destabilization
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Tkacick,</span>__ <span style="font-weight: normal;">Senior Research Fellow at the Heritage Foundation,</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">04 </span>__
[[#_Toc141422214]][[#_Toc141294659]]<span style="color: black;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2004/07/Chinas-New-Challenge-to-the-US-Japan-Alliance]]</span>,</span> )

<span style="color: black;"> As Chinese warships and naval survey vessels ply …</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">of the country's rapidly expanding submarine fleet. </span></span>

U.S. commitment to Japan is vital to overall East Asian stability
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Goh,</span>__ <span style="font-weight: normal;">Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford International Relations of the Asia-Pacific,</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">08</span>__
(Evelyn, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” </span><span class="NothingChar">2008</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 8(3):353-</span>377, Oxford Journals Database)

The centrality of these mutual processes of assurance …a result of not doing so would appear to be much worse.

This Causes Korean war, Taiwan War and Indo Pak war all which go nuclear. The alliance is the only way to solve
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Armitage et al., 2k </span>__
(Richard L. Armitage et al., 2000 Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye et al. fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm]]</span>)

Asia, in the throes of historic change, should carry major …<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">is central to America’s </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">global </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">s<span style="border: initial none initial;">ecurity strategy</span></span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span></span>

Taiwan war causes extinction
<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Straits Times, 2k</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span> [“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 25, LN]

THE high-intensity scenario postulates <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">a cross-strait </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span></span>he said in a recent interview given to the Chinese press.

North Korean war causes extinction
<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Hayes and Green, 10</span>__</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">- *Victoria University AND **Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute (Peter and Michael, “-“The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 1/5,** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]</span>) </span>**

**<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The consequences of failing to address</span></span> the proliferation …that warrants priority consideration from the international community.**

**Indo Pak war causes extinction**
**<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">GSN,</span>__</span> 3-16-20<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10 </span>__</span>**
**[Global Security Newswire, “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate World Population, Report Warns,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100315_4193.php]]</span>]**

**<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Computer modeling suggests <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">a nuclear exchange between </span>...</span></span><span class="NothingChar">at the University of Colorado at Boulder. </span>**




**AND, China’s rise is real and aggressive.**
**<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Lee </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">is a foreign-policy fellow at the Centre for Independent Studies in Sydney, a visiting scholar at the Hudson Institute in Washington and the author of "Will China Fail” China's Rise and the Road to War</span>” <span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">10</span>__</span>**
**(John, August 5, <span style="color: black;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703748904575410580240721848.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]]</span>) </span>**

**Four years before World War I, British author and politician Norman Angell …Asia should not commit the same failure of imagination.**

**Scenario Two- Warming**

**Alliance key to innovation to solve warming**
**<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Calder,</span>__</span><span class="underline"> <span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">Director, Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies SAIS/Johns Hopkins University</span><span style="color: black;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">2-1-</span></span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10</span>__</span>**
**<span class="underline"><span style="color: black;"> (Kent E, “U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span><span style="color: black;">JAPAN COOPERATION,”</span></span> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf]]</span><span class="underline"><span style="color: black;">) </span></span>**

**<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Active <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">U.S.</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 12pt;">‐</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Japan cooperation</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">on energy</span> and environmental …</span></span>configuration of embedded political interests in both countries.**

<span style="color: black;">And- Cooperation Spills to get all major emitters onboard</span>
**<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Patel, 7 </span>__</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">(Nirav, Bacevich fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance Should Evolve to Encompass Environmental Cooperation,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/1420/the-u-s-japan-alliance-should-evolve-to-encompass-environmental-cooperation]]</span> ) </span>**

**Historically<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, U.S.-Japan <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">relations have benefited from</span> …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">peace, stability and security.</span> </span></span>**


**And, there’s no question about warming—it’s real and anthropogenic**
**<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Rahmstorf,</span>__</span> <span style="font-weight: normal;">Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change</span>, <span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">08</span>__</span>**
**(Stefan, Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49)**

**It is time to turn to statement B: human activities are altering …<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">that anthropogenic global warming is a reality</span></span> with which we need to deal.**


**And, global warming leads to extinction**
**<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Tickell,</span>__</span> <span style="font-weight: normal;">environmental researcher</span>, <span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">08</span>__</span>**
**<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Oliver, </span></span>environmental researcher, 2008<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, </span></span>8/11, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]</span>)**

**<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of</span></span> global <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">warming</span></span>, …<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">human emissions </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">could propel us towards a</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">similar </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">hothouse Earth</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span></span>**



**Scenario Three- The Economy**

**Bilateral relations are key to global economic growth**
**<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Nye and Armitage, 7 </span>__</span>**
**(Joseph Nye University Distinguished Service Professor and Richard Armitage Deputy Secretary of State, “The U.S. Japan Alliance”, Feburary 2007, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070216_asia2020.pdf]]</span> )**

**The strength of China’s booming economy over the past …<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">and provide energy to the whole world economy. </span></span>**

**Growth solves extinction**
**<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Silk 93</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Leonard, Professor of Economics – Pace University, “Dangers of Slow Growth”, Foreign Affairs, 72(1), Winter, p. 173-174) </span>**

**<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">In the absence of </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">such shifts of human and capital <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">resources </span>…<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">and more liberal and open economies and societies</span>. </span></span>**

**<span class="DebateUnderline"> No offense- any alternative causes societal collapse and war </span>**
**<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Tilford,</span>__</span> <span style="font-weight: normal;">PhD in history from George Washington University and served for thirty-two years as a military officer and analyst with the Air Force and Army</span>, <span class="Author-Date">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">08</span>__</span>**
**<span class="NothingChar">(Earl, “Critical Mass: Economic Leadership or Dictatorship,” The Cedartown Standard, Lexis)</span>**

**<span class="NothingChar"> Could it happen again? Bourgeois democracy requires …affairs move; </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the world could devolve</span></span><span class="NothingChar"> to that point </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">very quickly</span></span><span class="NothingChar">. </span>**



View their authors with extreme skepticism – pro alliance authors have cultivated a deep bias towards the alliance that ignores the blatant lack of utility present in the alliance

<span class="s1">**Finnegan 9** </span><span class="s2">**,** </span>Senior Research Associate at The National Bureau of Asian Research (NBR), the principal investigator and led an interdisciplinary team assembled by NBR for this project, a Northeast Asian security specialist, former Senior Country Director in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, and former Special Assistant for Regional Security to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs, 20<span class="s3">09</span>, [Michael, National Bureau on Asian Research, “Managing Unmet expectations in the U.S.-Japan Alliance”] SM

<span class="s3">The U.S.-Japan alliance continues to be viewed by both countries as the linchpin of stability in the Asia-Pacific region and as key to the national security strategies of each country ... </span><span class="s1">These friction points could plausibly lead one or the other partner to consider options or alternatives beyond the alliance’s current configuration.</span>

===Add - ons - Japan=== 
====Rape add on==== 
**Okinawan marines commit rapes**
**CNN Wire Staff,’10**
<span class="s1">(5/4/10, Cable News Network, “ Japan PM: Moving U.S. base ‘difficult’ ” , <span class="s2">[[http://www.cnn.com/2010/WORLD/asiapcf/05/04/japan.okinawa.base.protest/index.html?iref=allsearch%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.cnn.com/2010/WORLD/asiapcf/05/04/japan.okinawa.base.protest/index.html?iref=allsearch]]</span>)</span>
<span class="s2">Okinawans say the U.S. military has been responsible for a number of blights</span><span class="s3"> .. </span><span class="s1">a 12-year-old Okinawan schoolgirl</span><span class="s2">.</span>



**D- RULE**
**Halley, 08**
(Janet is Royall Professor of Law, Harvard Law School. Fall 2008. “ARTICLE: RAPE AT ROME: FEMINIST INTERVENTIONS IN THE CRIMINALIZATION OF SEX-RELATED VIOLENCE IN POSITIVE INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL LAW” Michigan Journal of International Law. 30 Mich. J. Int'l L. 1)

Emphasis on the gender dimension of rape ... <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;"><span class="s1">a vehicle of terrorizing and subordinating women</span></span>



**Dehumanization outweighs and causes all other impacts.**
**Berube, 97**
[David M., Professor of Communication Studies and Associate Director of NanoScience and Technology Studies at University of South Carolina, “NANOTECHNOLOGICAL PROLONGEVITY: The Down Side,” <span class="s1">[[http://www.cas.sc.edu/engl/faculty/berube/prolong.htm%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.cas.sc.edu/engl/faculty/berube/prolong.htm]]</span>]
We don’t endorse gendered language.

This means-ends dispute is at the core of Montagu and Matson's treatise on the dehumanization of humanity ...
<span style="display: inline !important;"><span class="s1">dehumanization is evil's most powerful weapon</span><span class="s2">.</span></span>






==Most Recent 1AC- entire (COIN)== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of United States counterinsurgency troops in Afghanistan.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Counterinsurgency is failing in Afghanistan, taking away important resources needed in other international disputes, and building up the Taliban – failure is inevitable</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Afghanistan Study Group 8-16-10 ("A NEW WAY FORWARD: RETHINKING U.S. STRATEGY IN AFGHANISTAN", http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/NewWayForward_report.pdf)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">President Obama has repeatedly said that …. requires a fundamentally different approach.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Advantage 1 is Hegemony</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The current mixture of counterinsurgency and counterterrorist strategies kills heg.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Boyle, Lecturer in International Relations and Research Fellow at Univ of St. Andrews, 10 Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?” http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This episode indicates the extent ,,, the incubators of future terrorist threats.</span>

<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">And it causes political exhaustion, withdrawal helps our reserves</span></span>
<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;"> Kretkowski, 10</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;"> – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), [[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Over the winter break I had an epiphany about the interrelation of U.S. hard and soft power: </span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">I</span> </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">now </span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">oppose</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> a ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Such challenges may involve humanitarian crises (think Darfur, a Rwanda-style genocide, Indian Ocean tsunamis); Latin American instability (Mexico, Venezuela, post-Castro Cuba); rogue-state nuclear development (Iran, North Korea); or complex challenges from a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia).</span>

Also, perception of the Afghanistan quagmire destroys deterrence and hamstrings the military
Haass 12/20 (Richard N. Haas, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, “Let’s Un-Surge in Afghanistan,” 12/20/10)
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">http://www.cfr.org/publication/23669/lets_unsurge_in_afghanistan.html</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">To justify adopting a more narrow policy toward Afghanistan this spring, President Obama would need to cite several factors ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">But it is the commander-in-chief's responsibility to take into account the nation's capacity to meet all of its challenges, national and international. It is for this reason that the perspectives of Gen. Petraeus and President Obama must necessarily diverge.</span>

**Coin shreds US effective diplomacy**
<span class="s1">**Haddick 10**</span> (Robert Haddick, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, former Marine Corps Officer, holds a B.A. and M.B.A. from the University of Illinois, “This Week at War: The Afghanistan Vortex,” Foreign Policy, June 25, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/25/this_week_at_war_the_afghanistan_vortex]])

<span class="s2">Afghanistan is becoming a deepening vortex for</span><span class="s3"> both the </span><span class="s2">U</span><span class="s3">nited </span><span class="s2">S</span><span class="s3">tates ... </span>But such a course would have its own risks, which Obama has presumably considered and rejected.


**Effective Diplomacy key internal link to sustaining US Credibility and Leadership**
<span class="s1">**Cohen 09**</span> (11/30, Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ... ", http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html)

<span class="s2">Sending from 30,000 to 40,000 troops to that tumultuous nation will likely wreak havoc on Obama's ... </span>The opportunity costs will be profound, and Obama will risk becoming the one thing he likely did not want to be: a war President.




<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">No risk of turns –Withdrawal sustains long term leadership and credibility</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Innocent and Carpenter, CATO, 9 *foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Former national security adviser Henry Kissinger, … undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Reducing COIN in Afghanistan is the only way to make U.S. efforts sustainable.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Stewart, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights, 9 Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The best Afghan policy would be to reduce …. In Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Extinction</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kagan, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 7 [Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Finally, there is the United States itself. … global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Advantage 2 is the Insurgency</span>
<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">COIN fails in Afghanistan – tactical progress ignores key flaws and makes winning the war impossible</span></span>
<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;"> Cohen 12/27</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;"> (Michael Cohen, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, “The Lost Year in the Afghan War,” 12/27/10)[[http://www.aolnews.com/2010/12/27/opinion-the-lost-year-in-the-afghan-war/]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;"> The Counterinsurgency Disconnect While the West Point speech was supposed to clarify U.S. policy in Afghanistan, ... </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">to dig in and wait out U.S. forces rather than quickly ending the war.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">We will lose the war in Afghanistan – multiple reasons</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First: No local support</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Dorronsoro, scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, 10 expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia (5/11/10, Gilles, “Karzai comes to Washington,” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40779)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Current U.S. strategy in Afghanistan … further eroding the coalition’s political capital.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Second: Lack of understanding and geographic complexity</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Bandow, Senior Fellow at CATO, 10-7-10 (Doug, "Book Review: Afghanistan: A Cultural and Political History", http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12458&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+CatoRecentOpeds+(Cato+Recent+Op-eds))</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Nine years after the United States … Jalalabad represent very different peoples and experiences.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Third: A large military footprint plus perception of an illegitimate government</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Galston, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies a Brookings, 10 (William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Are the basic premises of our current policy in Afghanistan fatally flawed?</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The fact that I feel compelled to pose this question so soon after the …presence and political force in Afghanistan.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Fourth: Poor intelligence</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Welch, Reporter on Afghanistan Policy, 10 (Dylan, "Afghan War Unwinnable Quagmire, Ex-CIA Man Says", Sept 1, http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2010/09/01-5)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">THE war in Afghanistan is an unwinnable … allow the Coalition to win in Afghanistan.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Impacts:</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First – Pakistan – COIN drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Taliban – leads to collapse</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Akhtar, professor of International Realtions, Baluchistan University, 10 (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#1)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">If it is a war against extremists … moment, thus destabilizing the state.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Draws in China, India, Russia</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Pitt, New York Times, 9 international bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed … about addressing the situation. So should we all.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Second – nuclear terrorism – the risk of a nuclear attack against from Afghanistan or Pakistan towards the US is high</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Wohlstetter, Senior Fellow at Discovery Institute and form advisor to the DoD, 10 (John, Letter from the Capitol: a global cyber-tour of events and analysis pertaining to war, security, economic & cultural issues, “LFTC - Nuclear Terrorism Threat Growing?,” 2010, 2-2, http://www.letterfromthecapitol.com/letterfromthecapitol/2010/02/lftc-nuclear-terrorism-threat-growing.html)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Of all the WMD threats, nuclear weapons … WMD threat persists and grows as Pakistan's stability erodes.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Nuclear terrorism causes extinction</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Sid-Ahmed, Political Analyst, 4 [Mohamed, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A nuclear attack by terrorists will …the whole planet, we will all be losers.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Withdrawal will kill Al-Qaida’s support globally</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Farrall,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Senior Counter-Terrorism Intelligence Agent, <span style="background-color: aqua;">9</span></span></span> Australian Federal Police (Leah, “Al-Qaida prefers U.S. to stick around,” The Australian, November 12th, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/opinion/al-qaida-prefers-us-to-stick-around/story-e6frg6zo-1225796639320]]</span>)</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And statistical data is on our side – occupation is the root cause of terrorism</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Pape 10 - professor at the University of Chicago and is co-author of Cutting the Fuse: The Explosion of Global Suicide Terrorism and How to Stop It.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[10/18/10 "It's the Occupation, Stupid" http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/18/it_s_the_occupation_stupid?page=0,3]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">New research provides strong evidence that … in fact, they are at the heart of the problem.</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">AND – internal documents prove AL QAEDA is planning an agro-terror attack on the US from Afghanistan</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Morris 2007 – Major in the US Army</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[MAJ Grant L. Morris (US Army) , A New Kind of War: Are We Prepared for Agroterrorism? A Monograph, United States Army School of Advanced Military Studies, 01-05-07]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Today, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) focuses most of its efforts on port security and border enforcement; however, probably ... terrorists recognize that our agriculture and food industry provides tempting targets.”44 pg. 14-15</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Public would freak out – force reactionary solutions and retaliation</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Foxell 2003 - Member of the Academic Board of Advisers of the National Committee on American Foreign Policy. His research focuses on the effects of biological terrorism on agriculture [Joseph W. Foxell, Jr. (Professor of history at the City University of New York/College of Staten Island.), “The Terrorist Threat to U.S. Food Security,” American Foreign Policy Interests, 25: 99-126, 2003]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">An antilivestock, anticrop, or antisoil agroterror assault that does not become evident for weeks or months ... “opponents who resort to terrorism are trying to affect the politics of democracy, not simply make war on it.”23 pg. 109</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The world would end the world through retaliation</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Corsi 2005 [Jerome, PhD in Poli Sci from Harvard, Expert in Antiwar Movements and Political Violence, Atomic Iran, p176-178]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The combination of horror and outrage that will surge upon the nation ... while the country was still capable of exacting revenge.</span>

==1AC - Novice / JV state== 
Mostly the smae

No More Dollar decline -
Coin shreds US effective diplomacy
Haddick 10 (Robert Haddick, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, former Marine Corps Officer, holds a B.A. and M.B.A. from the University of Illinois, “This Week at War: The Afghanistan Vortex,” Foreign Policy, June 25, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/25/this_week_at_war_the_afghanistan_vortex)

Afghanistan is becoming a deepening vortex for ... But such a course would have its own risks, which Obama has presumably considered and rejected.

Effective Diplomacy key internal link to sustaining US Credibility and Leadership
Cohen 09 (11/30, Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ... ", http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html)

Sending from 30,000 to 40,000 troops to that tumultuous nation will likely wreak havoc on Obama's ... The opportunity costs will be profound, and Obama will risk becoming the one thing he likely did not want to be: a war President.

New Impact - Agro Terror
AND – internal documents prove AL QAEDA is planning an agro-terror attack on the US from Afghanistan
Morris 2007 – Major in the US Army
[MAJ Grant L. Morris (US Army) , A New Kind of War: Are We Prepared for Agroterrorism? A Monograph, United States Army School of Advanced Military Studies, 01-05-07]
Today, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) focuses most of its efforts on port security and border enforcement; however, probably ... terrorists recognize that our agriculture and food industry provides tempting targets.”44 pg. 14-15


Public would freak out – force reactionary solutions and retaliation
Foxell 2003 - Member of the Academic Board of Advisers of the National Committee on American Foreign Policy. His research focuses on the effects of biological terrorism on agriculture [Joseph W. Foxell, Jr. (Professor of history at the City University of New York/College of Staten Island.), “The Terrorist Threat to U.S. Food Security,” American Foreign Policy Interests, 25: 99-126, 2003]
An antilivestock, anticrop, or antisoil agroterror assault that does not become evident for weeks or months ... “opponents who resort to terrorism are trying to affect the politics of democracy, not simply make war on it.”23 pg. 109


The world would end the world through retaliation
Corsi 2005 [Jerome, PhD in Poli Sci from Harvard, Expert in Antiwar Movements and Political Violence, Atomic Iran, p176-178]
The combination of horror and outrage that will surge upon the nation ... while the country was still capable of exacting revenge.





==1AC - BF== 
Same Stuffs - couple replacements
North Korea and Iran threat grow as the US becomes more overstretched
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Schoen,</span> political strategist and Newsweek researcher, <span style="background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">1-8</span></span>-11 (Douglas, "The Risky Rush to Cut Defense Spending", http://www.newsweek.com/2011/01/08/the-risky-rush-to-cut-defense-spending.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> As we begin a new year, the United States is at a major crossroads in foreign policy</span> ...
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">would potentially </span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 12pt;">even undermine the capability of our armed forces</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span></span>

All life on the planet will be destroyed
**Hirsch 06** - Professor of physics @ University of California, San Diego. [Jorge Hirsch, “Israel, Iran and the US: Who Will be Blamed for Nuclear War?,” __Global Research__, July 24, 2006, pg. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=2807]]</span>.]

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">In the end of course we will all lose. Because </span>__<span style="background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">the nuclear genie, unleashed from </span>__ ...
**__<span style="background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">life on planet Earth, comes to an end</span>__<span style="background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>**


==1AC Lex - Rest of tourny== 
same as ohio valley

Replace Pape with

Withdrawal will kill Al-Qaida’s support globally
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Farrall,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Senior Counter-Terrorism Intelligence Agent, <span style="background-color: aqua;">9</span></span></span> Australian Federal Police (Leah, “Al-Qaida prefers U.S. to stick around,” The Australian, November 12th, [[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/opinion/al-qaida-prefers-us-to-stick-around/story-e6frg6zo-1225796639320]])

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A key objective is the denial of … and, more importantly, sustain al-Qa'ida. </span></span>


==1AC Lex - Round 5== 
The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of United States counterinsurgency troops in Afghanistan.

Advantage one is PTSD

Two Reasons for overstretch

A. Conflation of Strategies
Boyle, Lecturer in International Relations and Research Fellow at Univ of St. Andrews, 10 Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?” http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract)

This episode indicates the extent ,,, the incubators of future terrorist threats.

B. Failure of COIN
Mixing the strategies leads to overstretch
Dorronsoro, Visiting Scholar at Carnegie, 10 (Gilles, “The Case for Negotiations,” May 24th, Carnegie, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40863)

The coalition's strategy in Afghanistan is at an impasse ... To replicate such strategy, even in one province, would overstretch the U.S. military.

IMPACT - PTSD
Overstretch is causing tradeoff of funds that could be used to help PTSD
Jamail, Global Research, 9 (Dahr, "A Military Health Care System Over-Stretched by Two Ongoing Wars", http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=16530)

MARFA, Texas, Dec 11 (IPS) - With a military health care system over-stretched by ... mental health care treatment from the military for their PTSD

We have a moral obligation to vote for PTSD – ignoring the problem closes space for better society
Maarda and Verweij, Editors, 9 (Th.A. van, associate professor of Military Ethics at the Netherlands Defence Academy and head of the Bureau for Ethics and the Armed Forces, and D.E.M., professor in Philosophy and Ethics at Netherlands Defence Academy, "The Moral Dimenstion of Asymmetrical Warfare: Counter-terrorism, Democratic Values, and Military Ethics", pg. 360-361, Google Books)

This chapter cannot explain all or even most of the nature of mental health in the aftermath of war ... enable a group of people to freely construct a cohesive narrative of their own future.

Advantage 2 is Japanese relations

Afghanistan diverts Obama’s attention necessary to prevent erosion of US-Japanese relations
Walt, Professor of International Affairs at Harvard, 9 Stephen M., Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, academic dean from 2002-2006; previously taught at Princeton University and the University of Chicago; resident associate of the Carnegie Endowment for Peace and a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution; consultant for the Institute of Defense Analyses, the Center for Naval Analyses, and Singapore's S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, December 3, 2009, http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/12/03/the_hidden_costs_of_the_afghan_escalation)

But there is another cost to digging in deeper in Afghanistan... and a lot of important issues are going to get less attention than they deserve.

Relations solve warming
Calder, director of the Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies, 9 (Kent E., “Pacific Alliance” Page: 168. 8/24/2009)

Given the present and prospective future turbulence of the Middle East ... Asia being the continent most disastrously affected.

Extinction
Tickell, 8 [Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Guardian, 8-11, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]

We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told the Guardian last week. ... emissions could propel us towards a similar hothouse Earth.

Risk assessment is necessary for climate debates - allows effective policy making
SCHNEIDER & LANE 06 Prof. Bio. Sci., Senior Fellow of Institute for Int’l. Studies & Co-Director of Center for Environmental Science and Policy @ Stanford
(Stephen and Janica, Research Assistant to Dr. Schneider, “An Overview of ‘Dangerous’ Climate Change”, http://www.metoffice.gov.uk/corporate/pressoffice/adcc/BookCh2Jan2006.pdf)

Ultimately, scientists cannot make expert value judgments about what climate change ... brief explanation of how that confidence was arrived at.

Even 1% risk of outweighs because of the irreversible nature.
STROM 07 Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA
(Robert, , “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246)

Keep in mind that the current consequences of global warming ... The time for action is now.

Warming results in genocide.
Sharon Burke, senior fellow and director of the energy security project at the Center for a New American Security, 08,
[“Climatic Cataclysm: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Climate Change,” p. 157-165]

By mid-century, communal genocide will rage unchecked ... given the collapse of the MOC, which will compromise agricultural productivity.

Genocide must be prevented at all costs; its corporate nature makes it morally worse than extinction
Lang 85 Berel, Prof Philosophy, The Philisophical Forum, vol. XVI, #1-2 Winter 84/85

A number of further questions arise in connection with the act of genocide, ... to produce the larger corporate act.

Advantage 3 is the Insurgency
We will lose the war in Afghanistan – multiple reasons

First: No local support
Dorronsoro, scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, 10 expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia (5/11/10, Gilles, “Karzai comes to Washington,” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40779)

Current U.S. strategy in Afghanistan … further eroding the coalition’s political capital.

Second: Lack of understanding and geographic complexity
Bandow, Senior Fellow at CATO, 10-7-10 (Doug, "Book Review: Afghanistan: A Cultural and Political History", http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12458&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+CatoRecentOpeds+(Cato+Recent+Op-eds))

Nine years after the United States … Jalalabad represent very different peoples and experiences.

Third: A large military footprint plus perception of an illegitimate government
Galston, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies a Brookings, 10 (William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx)

Are the basic premises of our current policy in Afghanistan fatally flawed?
The fact that I feel compelled to pose this question so soon after the …presence and political force in Afghanistan.

Impacts:

First – Pakistan – COIN drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Taliban – leads to collapse
Akhtar, professor of International Realtions, Baluchistan University, 10 (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#1)

If it is a war against extremists … moment, thus destabilizing the state.

Draws in China, India, Russia
Pitt, New York Times, 9 international bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)
But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed … about addressing the situation. So should we all.


Second – nuclear terrorism – the risk of a nuclear attack against from Afghanistan or Pakistan towards the US is high
Wohlstetter, Senior Fellow at Discovery Institute and form advisor to the DoD, 10 (John, Letter from the Capitol: a global cyber-tour of events and analysis pertaining to war, security, economic & cultural issues, “LFTC - Nuclear Terrorism Threat Growing?,” 2010, 2-2, http://www.letterfromthecapitol.com/letterfromthecapitol/2010/02/lftc-nuclear-terrorism-threat-growing.html)

Of all the WMD threats, nuclear weapons … WMD threat persists and grows as Pakistan's stability erodes.

Nuclear terrorism causes extinction
Sid-Ahmed, Political Analyst, 4 [Mohamed, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]

A nuclear attack by terrorists will …the whole planet, we will all be losers.

And statistical data is on our side – occupation is the root cause of terrorism
Pape 10 - professor at the University of Chicago and is co-author of Cutting the Fuse: The Explosion of Global Suicide Terrorism and How to Stop It.
[10/18/10 "It's the Occupation, Stupid" http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/18/it_s_the_occupation_stupid?page=0,3]

New research provides strong evidence that … in fact, they are at the heart of the problem.





==1AC Ohio Valley== 
The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of United States counterinsurgency troops in Afghanistan.


Counterinsurgency is failing in Afghanistan, taking away important resources needed in other international disputes, and building up the Taliban – failure is inevitable
Afghanistan Study Group 8-16-10 ("A NEW WAY FORWARD: RETHINKING U.S. STRATEGY IN AFGHANISTAN", http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/NewWayForward_report.pdf)

President Obama has repeatedly said that …. requires a fundamentally different approach.


Advantage 1 is Hegemony

The current mixture of counterinsurgency and counterterrorist strategies kills heg.
Boyle, Lecturer in International Relations and Research Fellow at Univ of St. Andrews, 10 Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?” http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract)

This episode indicates the extent ,,, the incubators of future terrorist threats.

That collapses hegemony and causes nuclear miscalc.
Florig, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, 10 (Dennis, “Hegemonic Overreach vs. Imperial Overstretch,” 2/6, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/Delivery.cfm/SSRN_ID1548783_code1259934.pdf?abstractid=1548783&mirid=1)

There is an even larger question than …the U.S. is particularly prone to massive miscalculation.

Second – COIN is the cause of dollar vulnerability – collapses heg in the long term
Layne, Professor and Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at Texas, 10 (Christopher Layne, “Graceful Decline,” The American Conservative, May 2010, http://www.amconmag.com/article/2010/may/01/00030/)

The dollar’s vulnerability is the United States’ …. so-called “global counterinsurgency” being waged in Afghanistan and Iraq.

No risk of turns –Withdrawal sustains long term leadership and credibility
Innocent and Carpenter, CATO, 9 *foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)

Former national security adviser Henry Kissinger, … undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal.

Reducing COIN in Afghanistan is the only way to make U.S. efforts sustainable.
Stewart, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights, 9 Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan)

The best Afghan policy would be to reduce …. In Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more.

Extinction
Kagan, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 7 [Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]

Finally, there is the United States itself. … global involvement will provide an easier path.



Advantage 2 is the Insurgency


We will lose the war in Afghanistan – multiple reasons

First: No local support
Dorronsoro, scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, 10 expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia (5/11/10, Gilles, “Karzai comes to Washington,” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40779)

Current U.S. strategy in Afghanistan … further eroding the coalition’s political capital.

Second: Lack of understanding and geographic complexity
Bandow, Senior Fellow at CATO, 10-7-10 (Doug, "Book Review: Afghanistan: A Cultural and Political History", http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12458&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+CatoRecentOpeds+(Cato+Recent+Op-eds))

Nine years after the United States … Jalalabad represent very different peoples and experiences.

Third: A large military footprint plus perception of an illegitimate government
Galston, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies a Brookings, 10 (William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx)

Are the basic premises of our current policy in Afghanistan fatally flawed?
The fact that I feel compelled to pose this question so soon after the …presence and political force in Afghanistan.

Fourth: Poor intelligence
Welch, Reporter on Afghanistan Policy, 10 (Dylan, "Afghan War Unwinnable Quagmire, Ex-CIA Man Says", Sept 1, http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2010/09/01-5)

THE war in Afghanistan is an unwinnable … allow the Coalition to win in Afghanistan.

Impacts:

First – Pakistan – COIN drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Taliban – leads to collapse
Akhtar, professor of International Realtions, Baluchistan University, 10 (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#1)

If it is a war against extremists … moment, thus destabilizing the state.

Draws in China, India, Russia
Pitt, New York Times, 9 international bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)
But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed … about addressing the situation. So should we all.


Second – nuclear terrorism – the risk of a nuclear attack against from Afghanistan or Pakistan towards the US is high
Wohlstetter, Senior Fellow at Discovery Institute and form advisor to the DoD, 10 (John, Letter from the Capitol: a global cyber-tour of events and analysis pertaining to war, security, economic & cultural issues, “LFTC - Nuclear Terrorism Threat Growing?,” 2010, 2-2, http://www.letterfromthecapitol.com/letterfromthecapitol/2010/02/lftc-nuclear-terrorism-threat-growing.html)

Of all the WMD threats, nuclear weapons … WMD threat persists and grows as Pakistan's stability erodes.

Nuclear terrorism causes extinction
Sid-Ahmed, Political Analyst, 4 [Mohamed, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]

A nuclear attack by terrorists will …the whole planet, we will all be losers.

And statistical data is on our side – occupation is the root cause of terrorism
Pape 10 - professor at the University of Chicago and is co-author of Cutting the Fuse: The Explosion of Global Suicide Terrorism and How to Stop It.
[10/18/10 "It's the Occupation, Stupid" http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/18/it_s_the_occupation_stupid?page=0,3]

New research provides strong evidence that … in fact, they are at the heart of the problem.

==COIN 1AC - Johns Creek / Calhoun== 

Plan: The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of United States counterinsurgency troops in Afghanistan.


Advantage 1 is Hegemony

The current mixture of counterinsurgency and counterterrorist strategies undermines influence and overstretches the military
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Boyle, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lecturer in International Relations and Research Fellow at Univ of St. Andrews, <span style="background-color: aqua;">10</span></span></span> Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?**”** <span style="color: black;">[[http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract]]</span>)

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">This episode indicates the extent of the confusion … insurgencies as the incubators of future terrorist threats.</span></span>

Reducing counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan is the only way to make U.S. efforts sustainable in the long term
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Stewart, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights, <span style="background-color: aqua;">9</span></span></span> Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan]])

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">The best </span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Afghan</span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;"> policy would be to reduce</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the … <span style="background-color: aqua;">over a longer period.</span> In Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more. </span></span>


Multiple other internals:

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">First –Counterinsurgency overstretches the military </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Dorronsoro,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Visiting Scholar at Carnegie,</span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;"> 10</span></span> (Gilles, “The Case for Negotiations,” May 24th, Carnegie, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40863]])

The coalition's strategy in Afghanistan is at an impasse…<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">one province, would overstretch the</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> U.S<span style="background-color: yellow;">. military.</span> </span></span>


Overstretch kills heg - risks miscalc and nuke wars
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Florig,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, <span style="background-color: aqua;">10</span></span></span> (Dennis, “Hegemonic Overreach vs. Imperial Overstretch,” 2/6, [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/Delivery.cfm/SSRN_ID1548783_code1259934.pdf?abstractid=1548783&mirid=1]])

There is an even larger question than …<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">U.S. is</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> particularly <span style="background-color: yellow;">prone to</span> massive <span style="background-color: yellow;">miscalculation.</span> </span></span>


Second – counterinsurgency in Afghanistan is main cause of dollar vulnerability – collapses heg in the long term
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Layne,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Professor and Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at Texas, <span style="background-color: aqua;">10</span> </span></span>(Christopher Layne, “Graceful Decline,” The American Conservative, May 2010, [[http://www.amconmag.com/article/2010/may/01/00030/]])

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">The dollar’s</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> vulnerability is the U</span></span>nited <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span></span>tates’ <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">… <span style="background-color: yellow;">counterinsurgency”</span> being waged <span style="background-color: yellow;">in Afghanistan</span></span></span> and Iraq.

No risk of turns – even if there is a short term decline in credibility – withdrawal sustains long term leadership
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Innocent and Carpenter,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> CATO, <span style="background-color: aqua;">9</span> </span></span>*foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND **vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf]]</span>)**

**Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode America’s Global Status****…<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;"> U.S. security</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> than would withdrawal. </span></span>**

**Extinction**
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, <span style="background-color: aqua;">7</span></span></span> [Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” [[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]]**

**<span style="color: black;">Finally, there is the United States itself. …</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">involvement will provide an easier path. </span></span>**


**Advantage 2 is the Insurgency**


**We will lose the war in Afghanistan – multiple reasons**

**<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">First: No local support </span></span>**
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Dorronsoro,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, <span style="background-color: aqua;">10</span></span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;"> expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia (5/11/10, Gilles, “Karzai comes to Washington,” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace,</span></span> <span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40779]]</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">) </span></span>**

**<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Current</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> U.S. <span style="background-color: yellow;">strategy</span> in …</span></span>** **further <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">eroding the coalition’s political capital. </span></span>**


**Second: Troop requirements, geography, and politics**
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Eland et al,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The Independent Institute, <span style="background-color: aqua;">9</span></span></span> Senior Fellow and Director of the <span style="color: black;">Center on Peace & Liberty</span> at The Independent Institute, graduate of Iowa State University and received an M.B.A. in applied economics and a Ph.D. in Public Policy from George Washington University, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute (December 9, Ivan Eland, Peter Galbraith - Former Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations to Afghanistan and Assistant Secretary-General of the U.N.; former Ambassador to Croatia , Charles Pena Senior Fellow, The Independent Institute , <span class="hdr"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Can the U.S. Withdraw from Afghanistan and Iraq?</span></span>” <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.independent.org/events/transcript.asp?eventID=145]]</span> )**

**Now, even if the surge had been the …** **we’re moving back to a counter-insurgency strategy.**

**Third: A large military footprint combined with the perception of an illegitimate government**
**<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Galston,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Senior Fellow of Governance Studies a Brookings, <span style="background-color: aqua;">10</span> </span></span>(William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th, [[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx]])**

**Are the basic premises of our …<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and political force in Afghanistan. </span></span>**


**Impacts:**

**First – Pakistan –**
**A large counterinsurgency footprint drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Pakistani Taliban and will cause Pakistan to collapse**
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Akhtar,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> professor of International Realtions, Baluchistan University, <span style="background-color: aqua;">10</span></span></span> (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” [[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#]]**1)

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">If it is a war against extremists and … </span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">erupt at any moment</span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">,</span></span> thus <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">destabilizing the state</span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">.</span> </span>

AND – Pakistan is on the brink of collapse – flooding, economics, government failures. Now is key
<span class="Underline">Financial Times 9/1 <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(James Lamont, Farhan Bokhari, 9/1/10, " Pakistan: A precarious position ", http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/dfc28556-b5fe-11df-a048-00144feabdc0.html)</span> </span>

<span class="Underline">As the waters start to recede, aid agencies are tallying up </span> ...
<span class="Underline">Its leaders consider today’s crisis to be the gravest since the mass migration between India and newly created Pakistan during partition at the time of independence from Britain in 1947.</span>

Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Pitt,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> New York Times, <span style="background-color: aqua;">9</span> </span></span>international bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” [[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]])


Second – nuclear terrorism –
the risk of a nuclear attack against the US is high – it will come from Afghanistan or Pakistan – plan key
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Wohlstetter,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Senior Fellow at Discovery Institute and form advisor to the DoD, <span style="background-color: aqua;">10</span></span></span> (John, Letter from the Capitol: a global cyber-tour of events and analysis pertaining to war, security, economic & cultural issues, “LFTC - Nuclear Terrorism Threat Growing?,” 2010, 2-2, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.letterfromthecapitol.com/letterfromthecapitol/2010/02/lftc-nuclear-terrorism-threat-growing.html]]</span>)

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of all the WMD threats, nuclear … grows as Pakistan's stability erodes. </span></span>

Nuclear terrorism causes extinction
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Sid-Ahmed,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Political Analyst, <span style="background-color: aqua;">4</span></span></span> [Mohamed, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]]

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A nuclear attack by terrorists …infects the whole planet, we will all be losers</span></span>**.**

Withdrawal will kill Al-Qaida’s support globally
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Farrall,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Senior Counter-Terrorism Intelligence Agent, <span style="background-color: aqua;">9</span></span></span> Australian Federal Police (Leah, “Al-Qaida prefers U.S. to stick around,” The Australian, November 12th, [[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/opinion/al-qaida-prefers-us-to-stick-around/story-e6frg6zo-1225796639320]])

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A key objective is the denial of … and, more importantly, sustain al-Qa'ida. </span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Terrorism causes state collapse and global conflicts</span>**</span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Alexander,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Professor at George Washington, <span style="background-color: aqua;">2</span> </span></span>(Yonah, FDCH Testimony before the Immigration and Claims subcommittee, 2/28, [[http://judiciary.house.gov/legacy/alexander022802.htm]])

Scores of countries have experienced … __to the reality of terrorism.__

==__Add Ons__== 
===__Red Spread Add- on__=== 
__2010 is the key year for Russia to expand its sphere of influence and consolidate power over the region –ending counterinsurgent strategy allows containment__
__Steff 10— Intern, Centre for Strategic Studies. Dissertation on ballistic missiles and deterrence. MA, IR (Reuben, The Russian Resurgence, America and the Great Crisis of 2010, 7 January 2010, http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1001/S00022.htm,)__

__Well 2010 will be a period of consolidation for Russia. It now has a sphere of influence ... rapprochement between Iran and the US remains impossible.__

Russian expansionism in Central Asia triggers global nuclear war and extinction
Stephen J. Blank, strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago, March 2009. “RUSSIA AND ARMS CONTROL: ARE THERE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?”

Proliferators or nuclear states like China and Russia __... perhaps make wars of aggression on their neighbors or their own people.__

This is the only existential threat to Human Existence
Nick Bostrom, Ph.D. and Professor at Oxford University, 02
[www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html]

A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR __... humankind’s potential permanently.__

==Soft Power Add - on== 
COIN allows local leaders to use the US to fight their local conflicts – kills our human rights credibility
Haddick, managing editor of Small Wars Journal at Foreign Policy, 8-20-10 (Robert, "This Week at War: War Is Hell. COIN Is Worse", http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/08/20/this_week_at_war_war_is_hell_coin_is_worse)

Covert and proxy wars require local allies... embarrass their American sponsors.

That kills soft power
Cassel, Director of the Center for Civil and Human Rights at University of Notre Dame Law, 8 (Doug, “Next President Must Restore America’s Human Rights Credibility.” May 21, 2008. http://www.wbez.org/content.aspx?audioid=23280)

What can the next President do to restore American credibility on human rights ... demeans and weakens this nation’s voice abroad.”

That’s key to hegemony – outweighs military power
Seib, Director of the USC Center on Public Diplomacy, 9 Professor of Journalism and Public Diplomacy and Professor of International Relations (Philip, “Toward a New Public Diplomacy”, pg. 8)

The case for soft power rests partly on the fact that ... undermining respect for the United States.

==Trade Add - on== 
Dollar decline guts trade
Caploe, MA in Political Science and PhD in International Political Economy from Princeton, 8 (David, “It's the fiscal deficit, stupid,” The Straits Times, 9/2/08, lexis)

The origins of this system lie in the shattered condition of the world economy after World War II ... helped maintain the flow of not just trade, but international investment as well.

Prevents all wars
Boudreaux, Chairman of the Economic Department at George Mason, 6 (Donald J. Bourdreaux, “Want Word Peace? Support free trade.” Christian Science Monitor, 11/20/06, http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html)

These activities employ workers here at home and raise their wages ... (that is, countries with scores of 8 or higher).


=Negative= 
==Topicality== 
===T - Phased Withdrawal=== 
**'Phased withdrawal' means nothing**
<span class="s1">**Newsday '6**</span> (11/26/06, "Beware the Lure of 'Phased Withdrawal'," http://www.commondreams.org/views06/1126-27.htm, RG)

In the recent elections, the voters expressed their intense opposition to the Iraq war. But we can discern how those hopes are being betrayed. ... what reason is there to suppose some smaller number will achieve these ends?


===T Substantial - Futenma=== 
A. First, A substantial reduction is 25% - military regulations prove.
Tomanelli et al, Judge Advocate in the United States Air Force, Chief of Acquisition and Fiscal Law for the Air Force s Air Mobility Command, and Senior DoD Counsel for the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO), Army Lawyer, 94
(Major Steven N. February, Lexis)

1. Regulatory Changes--Notification Requirements for Termination ... employees and subcontractors of the proposed termination or reduction.

B. Futenma houses less than four percent of troops in Japan
BBC News, 10
[“Japan 'May Rethink' US Futenma Air Base After Poll”, 1-25, http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2010/01/25-5]

Japan signed a deal with the US four years ... the 47,000 American troops based in Japan.

C. Voting issue-
Limits – we can’t prepare for the infinite number of cases they justify. Holding the Line on 25% is necessary to prevent the Aff From Removing One Type of Weapon or One Brigade from ANY Of the Topic Countries

===T Non- Combat=== 
[[#_Toc271459289]] **Interpretation - Presence requires regular, non-combat activities – forces engaged in combat or one-time noncombat missions aren’t part of U.S. presence**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Thomason, 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf)</span>
WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE? <span style="font-size: 11pt;">... </span>
__security operation or contingency should call for them__.

====<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2NC Violation Ev</span>==== 

COIN is combat whenever - every operation
<span style="color: #141413;">Petraeus </span>& Amos 06, <span style="color: #141413;">Lieutenant General, U.S. Army & Lieutenant General, U.S. Marine Corps</span> ( 12/2006, “Counterinsurgency”, [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=2&ved=0CCcQFjAB&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.fas.org%2Firp%2Fdoddir%2Farmy%2Ffm3-24.pdf&ei=8eFATJSGO4T78Aa-qIQX&usg=AFQjCNF_J-r1sJq92wfkv5V-eJZuVcSu5Q&sig2=Mj79Ntjg9im4fWcv8kjCeg]] )
<span style="background: aqua none repeat scroll 0% 0%; color: black;">During COIN operations, every logistic package or resupply ...</span>
<span style="color: black;">unusable but also vulnerable to insurgent attacks.</span>

==Politics== 
===UGA - SKFTA=== 
**SKFTA will pass- momentum and bipart**
<span class="s1">Hyang **Doo-Yong, 2-16**-11, “Obama Wants FTA with Korea, Panama, Columbia Ratified this Year”</span><span class="s2"> <span class="s3">[["http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/nat|http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2011/02/17/52/0301000000AEN20110217000400315F.HTML]]</span></span>
<span class="s1">The Obama administration is committed to pass through Congress pending free trade deals with South Korea ... </span>Some studies show the deal would increase annual two-way trade by more than $20 billion.


**Military cutbacks ALWAYS cause fierce political firestorms, even if the substance of the plan is popular**
Matthew **Yglesias** 20**10**<span class="s1">.</span> (Center for American Progress). April 8, 2010. “How Politically Feasible Are Defense Spending Cuts?”
<span class="s1"> <span class="s2">[["http://yglesias.thinkprogress.org/archives/2010/04/how-politically-feasible-are-defense-spending-cuts.php" \|http://yglesias.thinkprogress.org/archives/2010/04/how-politically-feasible-are-defense-spending-cuts.php]]</span></span>
The most relevant issue, when thinking about cuts, is thinking about the political fight that ensues. ... This seems to me to be a huge problem in American political life, but it’s not obvious to me what steps will resolve it.


**PC key to SKFTA – solves the economy and relations.**
<span class="s1">**GALLI 10**</span>. [Teresa, Global Market Research Analyst @ Global Marketing Associates, “The South Korea - US Free Trade Agreement” June 21 -- http://ezinearticles.com/?The-South-Korea---US-Free-Trade-Agreement&id=4520289]
Although riddled with the imperfections inherent to free trade agreements, the KORUS FTA represents an significant opportunity for American exporters ... <span class="s1">**However, doing so will require strength, persistence, and much compromise.**</span>



Passage sparks global trade

**Hill** <span class="s1">0</span>**7** (Christopher, US Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs assistant secretary, “The United States-South Korea FTA: The Foreign Policy Implications.”, 6-13, [["http://seoul.usembassy.gov/41|http://seoul.usembassy.gov/413_061407.html]])

<span class="s2">Fourth, and finally, </span><span class="s3">the KORUS FTA will give impetus to global trade liberalization ... </span>It will create a new dynamic, reflecting both the growing sophistication of our bilateral relationship and the Republic of Korea’s increasingly positive role in the world.




<span class="s1">**Global Nuclear and bio war** </span>
<span class="s2">**PANZNER 08**</span><span class="s1"> Faculty – New York Institute of Finance. Specializes in Global Capital Markets. MA Columbia</span>
<span class="s1">[Michael J. Panzner, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, Revised and Updated Edition [Paperback], p. 137-138]</span>
<span class="s1">**<span class="s3">Continuing </span><span class="s1">calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the U</span><span class="s3">nited </span><span class="s1">S</span><span class="s3">tates </span><span class="s1">and other nations to spew forth protectionist legislation like</span><span class="s3"> the notorious </span><span class="s1">Smoot-Hawley</span><span class="s3"> bill. ... </span>** </span>
<span style="display: inline !important;"><span class="s1">.</span> <span class="s3">Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts</span><span class="s2"> between Muslims and Western societies </span><span class="s3">as the beginnings of a new world war. </span></span>

====Other Impacts==== 
=====Trade===== 
**And the bill is key to the economy- that’s Galli**
**That causes extinction**
<span class="s1">**Austin 9**</span> (Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman<span class="s2">,</span> Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6, http://www.aei.org/article/100187)

What do these trends mean in the short and medium term? ... <span style="font-size: 8px;"><span class="s1">The result may be a series of small explosions that coalesce into a big bang</span><span class="s2">.</span></span>


=====Food===== 
**KORUS key to strong US ag**
**Southwest Farm Press 1/31**/11 ("Ag groups supporting U.S., Korea trade agreement," http://southwestfarmpress.com/markets/ag-groups-supporting-us-korea-trade-agreement)

**The National Cattlemen’s Beef Association**<span class="s1"> (NCBA), ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8px;">**Korea could eventually be a one billion dollar market for U.S. beef producers.**</span>


Key to global food security

**Wiebe 00** (Keith, US Dept of Agriculture, "7.1 Sustainable Resource Use and Global Food Security," http://www.ers.usda.gov/publications/arei/ah722/arei7_1/7-1sustain9-20.pdf)

Sustainable resource use refers to a pattern of resource use that meets the needs ... The issue of sustainability will be considered in greater depth after a review of concepts and trends in resource use and food security.

**Spreading access to food is the highest good**
**Watson ‘77**, philosophy professor @Washington University
[World Hunger and Moral Obligation, 1977, pp. 118-9.]

<span class="s1">One may even have to sacrifice one’s life</span> or one’s nation <span class="s1">to be moral</span> in situations where practical behavior would preserve it. ...
<span style="display: inline !important;">**The ultimate test always harks back to the highest principle – recant or die – and <span class="s1">it is pathetic to profess morality if one quits when the going gets rough.</span>**</span>

=====Human rights===== 
**Free Trade spurs Human Rights**
Ismail **Serageldin**<span class="s1">**,** </span>Vice-President of Environmental Sustainable Development for the World Bank, Nurturing Development: Aid and Cooperation in Today’s Changing World, **1995**, p.<span class="s2">5</span>-<span class="s2">6</span>

Let’s look at these constituent elements and just how Western they really are. ... Furthermore, <span class="s1">the needs of the public in terms of health. Security, and environmental protection will require a degree of regulation and control and standard setting, even if pragmatically one would rely on incentives and markets to obtain the desired results.</span>

=====Indo Pak===== 
**Free Trade prevents indopak nuclear war**
**Eland, 2005** [Ivan, Director of the <span class="s1">[[http://www.independent.org/research/copal/|Center on Peace & Liberty]]</span> at The Independent Institute, 3/21, The Independent Institute, http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=1482]

Republican administrations always tout the free market, but when it clashes with the perceived interests of the national security state—of which they are so fond—it gets outgunned ... <span style="font-size: 11px;"><span class="s1">Clearer thinking about U.S. security is needed</span>.</span>

=====Democracy===== 
**Expanding trade expands democracy**
Daniel **Griswold**, associate director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, February 18, **2004**, FoxNews, “Free Trade Sows Seeds for Democracy,” http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,111819,00.html

<span class="s1">One of the most powerful forces for spreading democracy and human rights in East Asia and the rest of the world today may be the freedom to trade (search). ... Expanding the freedom of people to engage in transactions across international borders over time enlarges their freedom to exercise autonomy over other, non-commercial aspects of their daily lives and to shape and chose a government that will protect those basic rights.</span>

=====Terror===== 
**Free Trade is key to stop terrorism**
**Schaefer 01**, Fellow in International Regulatory Affairs in the Center for International Trade and Economics at The Heritage Foundation (Brett, “Expand Freedom to Counter Terrorism”, Heritage Research Backrounder no 1508)

<span class="s1">Economic Repression Breeds Terrorism </span><span class="s2">Some policymakers</span> in Europe and the United States, and some leaders of international organizations ... <span style="font-size: 11px;"><span class="s1">Bahrain's lead is followed by the United Arab Emirates, Israel, Jordan, and Kuwait--all moderate states that have been relatively supportive of America's war on terrorism</span><span class="s2">.</span></span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">**Emory - SKFTA**</span>===== 
SKFTA Will Pass
LA Times, 1-25-11
(“On South Korea trade deal, Obama and chamber are on same side” http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-korea-fta-20110125,0,2282064.story)

On the eve of President Obama's expected push for American competitiveness in his State of the ... she said, "It makes it much easier to fight these local battles."

CAPITAL is key
WHARTON 1 – 12 – 11 Wharton School’s Online Business Journal – Editorial Post – including the Deupty Dean & Executive Director of the University of Pennsylvania’s Business School
[U.S.-South Korea Trade Pact: A Turning Point for American Exports?, http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2671]

The Tea Party Factor
During the fall election season, some Democratic and Republican ... foundation of Republican economic and foreign policy for decades.

The debate over Bagram is controversial in Congress and with human right activists.
Christian Science Monitor, 09
(“Obama's Guantánamo, counterterror policies similar to Bush's?” http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/2009/1016/p02s07-usgn.html)

The debate over America's counterterrorism policies ... good, strong people with character and principles."

North Korea war
GERWIN 10 Senior Fellow for Trade and Global Economic Policy
Edward F. Gerwin , Jr., "Guest Contribution: 5 Reasons America Needs Korea Free Trade Deal" Dec 16 blogs.wsj.com/economics/2010/12/16/guest-contribution-5-reasons-america-needs-korea-free-trade-deal/

5. China is Not a Fan. The Korea FTA would solidify America’s ... beefy” benefits for American trade.

EXTINCTION
Hamel-Green and Hayes 10 (Michael, Dean and Prof. Faculty of Arts – Victoria U., and Peter, Nautilus Institute, Special Report 100-001, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 2010, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)

At worst, there is the possibility of nuclear attack1... consideration from the international community.

===Ohio Valley- START=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">START will pass – has the votes & is close – politics could trip it up</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Foreign Policy 12/3 (Josh Rogin, 12/3/10, "The Cable: Exclusive: Clinton: Agreement with GOP on New START very close", http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/12/03/exclusive_clinton_agreement_with_gop_on_new_start_very_close)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">MANAMA, Bahrain—The Obama ... But I'm not counting the chickens until they vote."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Capital is key</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">GROSSMAN 11 – 17 – 10 Global Security Newswire Nuclear Specialist Reporter</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Elaine M. Grossman, Senators Retreat to Caucus Meetings Amid Dimmed Prospects for Nuclear Treaty, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20101117_7409.php]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"I talked with Senator Kyl today ... effort and political capital to achieve ratification.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">START failure will destroy US-Russian relations</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Collins, 09 - Director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and US Ambassador (James, “A Chance for a Nuclear-Free World,” Foreign Policy, 7/6, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=23356)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Two decades later, as U.S. President Barack Obama meets in Moscow .... arms race, but even the specter of such a possibility is enough to make achieving other goals that much more difficult.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">RELATIONS solve environment destruction, regional wars, fast prolif, and US-Russian war – each risks extinction</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">COHEN 2k Professor of Russian Studies at NYU</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Stephen Cohn, “Failed Crusade”, p. 196-205]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">These assurances are manifestly untrue .... grandchildren will reap the benefits or pay the pric</span>


==Disadvantages== 
===Russia Surprise DA=== 

2010 is the key year for Russia to expand its sphere of influence and consolidate power over the region – pulling out allows the US to contain Russian expansion
Steff 10— Intern, Centre for Strategic Studies. Dissertation on ballistic missiles and deterrence. MA, IR (Reuben, The Russian Resurgence, America and the Great Crisis of 2010, 7 January 2010, http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1001/S00022.htm,)

Well 2010 will be a period of consolidation for Russia. It now has a sphere of influence ... Therefore Russia has an interest in keeping Iran close and ensuring that a rapprochement between Iran and the US remains impossible.

US/Russian relations are at a turning point – US encroachment on Russia’s sphere of influence kills cooperation
Eyal 10 (Jonathan, U.S.,
Russia truly committed to improving their relations, 26 June 2010, http://www.chinapost.com.tw/commentary/the-china-post/special-to-the-china-post/2010/06/26/262241/US-Russia.htm, )

Yet the meeting between the Russian and American leaders also cements a blossoming ... and a mere fraction of the total value of America's trade with China, a figure which is 15 times larger.

That results in numerous scenarios for nuclear war
Cohen 10—prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen,)

The third post-1991 conflict is stated like a mantra by American policymakers ... Congress, or the mainstream media, or, I should add in the think tanks, can connect these dots.


===CMR DA=== 
Civil-military relations are being boosted by Petraeus’s new leadership but remain on the brink after the McChrystal crisis.
AP 6/29 [Associated Press, “Petraeus Vows Long-Term Commitment In Afghan War,” 6/29/10, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=103363131]

Gen. David Petraeus is on a mission to convince a war-weary Congress ... by traveling to Afghanistan and neighboring Pakistan.

Plan decimates CMR – Unilateral Decisions made by Obama cause military backlash
Baker 8 (Anni P., Assistant Professor of History – Wheaton College, Life in the Armed Forces: (Not) Just Another Job, p. 192-195)
THE INFLUENCE OF THE MILITARY ON CIVILIAN SOCIETY ... of tactics, strategy, and other military considerations.

Obama will succeed in Afghanistan now due to CMR- slighting military ensures backlash and failure causing instability
Feaver 09 (Peter D. Feaver, professor of political science at Duke University and director of the Triangle Institute for Security Studies, 12-19-09, The good and the bad news on the prospects for Obama's Afghanistan policy, Foreign Policy)

Those who urged Obama to give McChrystal what he asked for must line up in support ... It would not take much to fan these embers into a real civil-military fire.

===Japanese Rearm DA=== 
A. Japan won’t nuclearize now but the door is open
Hughes, doctoral candidate in the Department of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Spring, 07
(Llewelyn “Why Japan Will Not Go Nuclear (Yet); International and Domestic Constraints on the Nuclearization of Japan”, International Security, Lexis)

Japan's status as a nonnuclear weapons ... before, should leader preferences change.

B. Troop withdrawal causes nuclearization – undermines security credibility – Cold War proves
Yoshihara and Holmes, associate professors of strategy at the U.S. Naval War College, 09
(Toshi and James R. “Thinking about the unthinkable: Tokyo's nuclear option”, Summer 2009, Naval War College Review, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0JIW/is_3_62/ai_n32144580)

Indeed, historical precedents in Cold War ... the possibility of a Japanese nuclear option.

Withdrawing From Futenma Either Cause Korean War or Japanesse Rearm
Matsubara, @ Heritage Foundation, 10
[Mihoko, Much Ado About Nothing on Futenma, http://blog.heritage.org/2010/08/03/much-ado-about-nothing-on-futenma/]

Okinawa has been a cornerstone of the Japan... however, does not seem to be ready for taking more security responsibility.

C. Japanese nuclearization triggers a regional arms race causing nuclear war
Interfax, 06,
( “Nuclear Japan Would Trigger Terrible Arms Race in Asia,” http://lists.econ.utah.edu/pipermail/a-list/2006-November/063410.html)

The emergence of nuclear weapons in Japan ... the Russian expert said. "This race could ultimately result in the use of such weapons,"

===South Korea Alliance DA=== 
**U.S.** <span class="s1">**ground forces**</span> **key to maintain a** <span class="s1">**credible**</span> **nuclear guarantee for Seoul**
<span class="s2">**Payne, et. al, 10 –** </span>Professor in Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University (March 2010, Dr. Keith Payne, Study Director Thomas Scheber Kurt Guthe, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,” [[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf]], JMP<span class="s2">**)**</span>

<span class="s1">Forward deployment of forces,</span><span class="s3"> then, </span><span class="s1">is one of the principal ways in which the</span> <span class="s4">U</span><span class="s3">nited </span><span class="s4">S</span><span class="s3">tates ... </span><span class="s1">While U.S. nuclear weapons in the past were forward deployed in South Korea, </span><span class="s2">a nuclear presence on the peninsula has not been essential to the nuclear guarantee. </span>


**Prevents South Korean prolif**
**Hughes, 2007**
[Christopher W., PhD University of Sheffield, 1997, Reader/Associate Professor, University of Warwick. “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan,” January, Asia Policy No 3, http://www.nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP3/AP3Hughes.pdf]

<span class="s1">South Korea’s history of considering its nuclear options closely corresponds with</span><span class="s2"> ... </span><span class="s1">U.S. nuclear umbrella</span> in the absence of its own deterrent, thus enabling the reaffirmation of U.S. security guarantees.54



**Escalates to global nuclear war**
<span class="s1">**Cirincione, 2000 –** </span>Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor<span class="s1">**)**</span>

The blocks would fall quickest and hardest in Asia, where proliferation pressures are already building more quickly than anywhere else in the world. ...
<span style="display: inline !important;"><span class="s1">, </span><span class="s2">the first combat use of a nuclear weapon since</span><span class="s1"> 19</span><span class="s2">45</span><span class="s3">.</span></span>



===South Korea- Investors DA=== 
<span class="s1">**Plan guts investment in South Korea which collapses its economy**</span>
<span class="s2">**Magnum 04**- </span><span class="s1">Brigadier Commanding General for Special Operations in South Korea</span>
<span class="s1">(Spring 2004, Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, “Joint Force Training: Key to ROK Military Transformation”, pg online @ [http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/13/06_ronald_s_mangum.pdf]//au)//</span>

//<span class="s3">Many </span><span class="s1">Koreans ignore</span><span class="s3"> the fact </span><span class="s1">that while the ROK economy performed exceptionally well during the Asian economic crisis</span><span class="s3"> ... </span><span class="s1">public may not let its government spend the money necessary to improve the capability of its forces. **Independently, withdrawal will stop U.S. foothold in the Asian Pacific Market which will collapse the U.S. economy**</span> <span class="s2">**Kinne 04-** </span><span class="s1">Colonel and US Army Researcher (5/3/04, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea” pg online @ [http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691]</span>//
au)

<span class="s3">Strategic </span><span class="s1">withdrawal of U.S. forces from South Korea would present</span><span class="s3"> ... </span><span class="s1">and shape China’s ascendancy into the global marketplace.</span>



**Global nuclear war**
<span class="s1">**Mead 09 (**</span><span class="s2">Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, New Republic, February 4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]</span>

So far, such half-hearted experiments not only have failed to work; they have left the societies that have tried them in a progressively worse position, farther behind the front-runners as time goes by ...
<span style="display: inline !important;"><span class="s1">back on track, we may still have to fight. </span></span>


==Kritiks== 
===Cap K=== 
Link - The affirmatives construction of a strategic withdrawal underlies and masks the motives of capitalist imperialism to remain undetected
Patnaik 1990 (Prabhat, Eminent and prolific economist who has worked creatively for 40 years at the intersection of Marxian and Keynesian theoretical traditions, professor at the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning in the School of Social Sciences at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. He is currently Vice-Chairman of the Planning Board of the Indian state of Kerala., “Whatever happened to imperialism?,” Monthly Review Foundation, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1132/is_n6_v42/ai_9101140/?tag=content;col1)

It is unnecessary to go on. The point is not ... extraordinary strength and vigor it is displaying at present.

And all their impacts are inevitable under a system of capital - conflicts between the orbiting state and the hegemon will always happen
International Perspective 07 (Internationalist Perspective, Collection of essays by an International Team of Contributors, http://internationalist-perspective.org/IP/ip-archive/ip-archive.html)

Clearly in a capitalist world, the hegemonic power ... constitutes a challenge to the awesome power of capital.

The alternative is to reject the affirmative as a means of rejecting capitalism. Rejecting every instance of capitalism is key or else we’ll become slaves to the system.
Herod 4
[James, http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/4thEd/4-index.htm, “Getting Free”, 4th Edition]

It is time to try to describe, at first abstractly and later concretely, ... we are doomed to perpetual slavery and possibly even to extinction.

===Security K=== 
The affirmatives disaster scenarios are mere constructions of threats that foster an environment of unending securitization. The social context of realist security discourse outweighs the affirmative’s advantage claims.
David Grondin, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 2004, (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17)

Neorealist and neoclassical realism offer themselves up as a narrative ... that the state’s very conditions of existence are generated18.

This quest for security in an inherently chaotic and insecure world guarantees extinction
Burke, IR prof, 7—lecturer of IR at U New South Wales (Anthony, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” 7 December 2007, http://www.hopkins-debate.com/pdf/Burke.pdf,)

This closed circle of existential and strategic reason generates ... necessary policy responses, however ineffective, dysfunctional or chaotic.

Vote neg to reject the 1ac’s securitized discourse. Critical praxis outweighs policy making- voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecy
Graeme Cheeseman, Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert Bruce Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ, ‘96 (Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)

This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of international relations ... or resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?

====2NC - Overview==== 

**The construction of threats ensures any agencies of power to authorize force including annihilation and genocide**
**Coviello 2000** (Peter, Assist. Prof. of English @ Bowdoin College, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations, "Apocalypse from Now On")

Apocalypse, as I began by saying, changed – it did not go away. And here I want to hazard my second assertion ... of its collective life, the threat of an apocalyptic demise, nuclear or otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.

**The aff artificially constructed advantages with random factoids just to make the plan seem like a good idea. This makes solvency a rigged game – vote neg to avoid serial policy failure and error replication**
<span class="s1">**Dillon and Reid, 00** </span>(Michael and Julian, Global Governance, Liberal Peace, and Complex Emergency. By: Dillon, Michael, Reid, Julian, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, 03043754, Jan-Mar2000, Vol. 25, Issue 1)

More specifically, where there is a policy problematic there is expertise, and where there is expertise there, too, a policy problematic will emerge. Such problematics are detailed and elaborated in terms of discrete forms of knowledge as well as interlocking policy domains ... <span style="font-size: 11px;"><span class="s1">through the very detailed ways in which life is variously (policy) problematized by it</span><span class="s2">.</span></span>




====Link - Warming==== 
**Focusing on the catastrophes of warming and trying to manage it replicates the logic of control which triggers their impact.**
Andrew <span class="s1">**McLaughlin 93**</span>, Associate Professor of Philosophy, Regarding Nature: Industrialism and Deep Ecology, 1993, p 97-98

The Russian scientist <span class="s2">Federov</span>. noting predicted changes in, global climate ... <span class="s1">if it is to truly reconcile humanity and the rest of nature.</span>



====Link - China Threat con==== 
**China threat construction makes war inevitable**
<span class="s1">**Pan, 04**</span> (Political Science, Australian National U, Chengxin, Department of Political Science at Australian National University, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics”, Alternatives, June-July, ebscohost)

<span class="s2">I have argued above that </span><span class="s3">the "China threat" argument in mainstream U.S. IR literature is derived ... </span><span class="s1">so that alternative, more nuanced, and less dangerous ways of interpreting and debating China might become possible</span><span class="s2">.</span>


**That becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy and makes their impacts inevitable**
<span class="s1">**Foster, 94** </span>(Professor at the National Defense University), Gregory, Alternatives, v. 19 n.1 p. 86-88)

By ridding oneself of the many bad habits of English usage we have adopted, one can think more clearly .. <span style="font-size: 11px;">—it produces feelings of helplessness, not among the purveyors of the deception, but amoung those of us who have so carelessly relinquished our fate to them. </span>


====Link - Korea==== 
<span class="s1">**Trying to ‘fix’ the East is grounded in paternalistic Orientalism—all their arguments stand on shaky epistemological ground that legitimizes endless violence—turns the case** </span>
<span class="s2">**Anand 07**</span><span class="s1">—Reader, IR, U Westminster. PhD, politics, Bristol (Dibyesh, Western Colonial Representations of the Other, http://staff.bath.ac.uk/ecsda/DAnandNPSArticleMar07.pdf, AMiles) Note – epiphenomenal = a secondary question/phenomenon </span>

<span class="s1">Within the context of European imperialism, </span><span class="s2">the issue of the representation</span><span class="s1"> of natives ... </span><span style="font-size: 11px;"><span class="s1">lead to the debasement and negation of most non-Western natives and idealization of some.</span></span>



**The impact outweighs and turns the case – Orientalist understandings of the world guarantee extinction**
<span class="s1">**Bilgin 05**</span> – Assistant Prof of International Relations at Bilkent University, “REGIONAL SECURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST A CRITICAL PERSPECTIVE”, PAGE 164-165

Thinking about the future from a critical security perspective need not be limited to 'desired' futures only. ... <span style="font-size: 11px;"><span class="s1">would be complicit in perpetuating regional insecurity in the Middle East.</span></span>





====AT: Perm==== 
<span class="s1">**6. Cloaking DA**</span> **- The reasons for pursuing a policy are central to understanding it, we must reject liberal reforms that mask the security apparatus by shifting the frame of debate because they effectively kill critique and sustain security logic.**
<span class="s2">**Burke**</span><span class="s3"> 20</span><span class="s2">**07**</span> (Anthony, Senior Lecturer @ School of Politics & IR @ Univ. of New South Wales, 2007, //Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence//, p. 3-4,)

<span class="s1">These frameworks are interrogated at the level both of their theoretical ... become hostage to a claustrophic structure of political and ethical possibility that **systematically wards off critique.**</span>




7. Framing DA - Discourse that humanizes security by utilizing it and trying to change it only strengthens the elite strategy that remains within the ontological confines of security sustaining contemporary political order.

<span class="s2">**Burke**</span><span class="s3"> 20</span><span class="s2">**02**</span> (Anthony, School of Political Science and International Studies, University of Queensland , “Aporias of Security”, Questia,)

<span class="s4">My particular concern with</span><span class="s1">humanist discourses of security ... </span>Locke, the utilitarian philosopher Jeremy Bentham, and Hegel, using Foucault's writings on governmental reason as a loose template<span class="s1">.</span>





**8.** <span class="s1">**Co-option DA**</span> **- Orthodox security studies remains a firm hegemony, alternatives that do not challenge disciplinary norms by utilizing the rhetoric of security causes co-option and kills future potential alternatives.**
<span class="s2">**Jones**</span><span class="s3"> 19</span><span class="s2">**99**</span> (Richard Wyn is Dr Richard Wyn Jones becomes the Director of the University’s Wales Governance Centre – a key centre for knowledge and research on governance, devolution and constitutional affairs.Derek Jones, Cardiff University’s Director of Business and Strategic Partnerships, formerly the Senior Director of the Welsh Assembly Government. “Security, Strategy and Critical Theory” pg. 145-147. 1999. Questia,)
If this analysis of the conceptualization of the theory-practice nexus in the work of critical theorists is correct, ...
<span style="display: inline !important;">**<span class="s1">the material and professional benefits enjoyed by their less radical colleagues</span><span class="s2"> (see, for example, Booth 1997a: 96–97).</span>**</span>








====AT: Realism==== 
**Realism is a self-fulfilling prophecy --- states create the rules of the international system --- if they act differently, the system adapts.**
**Wendt****1999 –** Alexander, Associate Professor of Political Science at Yale, Social Theory of International Politics, p. 331-2.

The underlying logic here is the self-fulfilling prophecy ... <span style="font-size: 11px;"><span class="s1">If states start out thinking like “Realists” then that is what they will teach each other to be</span>, <span class="s2">and the kind of anarchy they will make</span><span class="s3">.</span></span>



**2. Realism is false and it makes war inevitable—voting negative is key to a ethical version of IR that solves root causes**
**Inan 3**—prof, Department of Political Science at the University of Amsterdam as well as the Amsterdam School for Social Science Research. PhD in IR (Annette, What Moves Man: The Realist Theory of International Relations and Its <span class="s1">Judgment of Human Nature, GoogleBooks, 134-141,)</span>
<span class="s2">134 Richard </span>Ned Lebow as well as Lebow and Janice Gross Stein have examined the risks posed by motivational and unmotivational biases for deterrence and nuclear crisis management ... <span style="font-size: 11px;"><span class="s1">creates a threatening situation, which confirms these policies ex post facto</span><span class="s2">. </span><span class="s1">If it chose a different strategy, the threat would never occur.”</span><span class="s4">145 </span></span>











====AT: Mearshimer==== 

<span class="s1">**Mearsheimer’s analysis only takes into account short-term needs, leading to longer-term wars and proliferation**</span>
<span class="s2">**Rosecrance, 02**</span><span class="s1"> Research Professor of Political Science at the University of California, former Professor in Public Policy at the University of Harvard (Richard, 55 World Politics 1, “Review: War and Peace”, <span class="s3">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/25054212]]</span>, JSTOR, pg. 161-162,)</span>
<span class="s1">This suggests a role for the United States very different from that recommended by Mearsheimer. Viewing America as an offshore balancer ... </span><span style="font-size: 11px;"><span class="s1">Nor do his prescriptions deal with the omnipresent threat of terrorism</span><span class="s2">.</span></span>


====AT: Framework==== 
**- Representations are intrinsically tied to policy action. Separation of discourse and representations from policy debate is impossible and discourse shapes the way these policies are enacted**
**Doty, Assistant professor of Political Science at Arizona State University, 96**
**(“Imperial Encounters” page 5-6)**

This study begins with the premise that <span class="s1">representation is an in­herent ... how they are articulated with the exercise of political, military, and economic power. </span>



**And this turns your offense - The affirmative’s securitization of the plan can be overcome through de-securitizing the issue and pushing it through normal decision making process.**
<span class="s1">**Hellman, Schlag, Herborth**</span><span class="s2"> 20</span><span class="s1">**08**</span> (Dr. Gunther Hellmann holds a chair in Political Science at Johann Wolfgang Goethe-University Frankfurt/Main, specializing in International Relations. Gabi Schlag M.A. Political Science, research assistant, project assistant in the research project [["http://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_c?hl=en&ie=UTF-8&sl=de&tl=en&u=http://www.soz.uni-frankfurt.de/hellmann/west.htm&prev=_t&rurl=translate.google.com&twu=1&usg=ALkJrhhP4jjjX5-qtR|"Secur (itiz) ing the West"]]. Institute for Political Science, Benjamin Herborth Research Associate and Lecturer at the [[http://www.uni-frankfurt.de/fb03/%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|Department of the Social Sciences]] (Institut for Comparative Politics and International Relations), [[http://www.uni-frankfurt.de/%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|Johann Wolfgang Goethe-University]] Frankfurt am Main, Teaching Assistant at the Department of the Social Sciences, Johann Wolfgang Goethe-University Frankfurt am Main, M.A. in Political Science and Sociology specializing in International Relations at the University Of Chicago.“SECUR(ITIZ)ING THE WEST The Transformation of Western Order” Paper prepared for presentation at the joint conference of the British International Studies Association (BISA) and the German Political Science Association (DVPW) in Arnoldshain/Germany May 2008, p. 16,)
In following the Copenhagen School we assume that the identification of successful moves of de-/securitization hinges ... <span style="font-size: 11px;">securitization are conceived of as processes which transform the normative foundation of the West as a transnational community via the institutional consequences they yield.</span>







**And their tunnel vision of “rational actors” distorts the policies they create – guts solvency**
<span class="s1">**Marston, 04** – B.A. in Social Sciences (QUT), Ph.D. (UQ) (Greg, </span>Social policy and Discourse Analysis , 2004 p. 14-15)

<span class="s1">The positivist paradigm informs an idealized **rational actor** ... </span> that offer social policy researchers different ways of thinking about language and culture<span class="s1">.</span>




**Excluding Rep Ks reinforces violent national identities and makes their impacts inevitable**
<span class="s1">**Anand, 07**</span> – Ph.D. (Bristol), MA (Hull), BA Honours (St Stephen’s College, Delhi) Reader in International Relations Centre for the Study of Democracy, Westminster University, London (Dibyesh, <span class="s2">Geopolitical exotica: Tibet in western imagination</span> p. 12-16 2007)

WORLD POLITICS AS THE POLITICS OF IMAGINATION Social and cultural identities by their very nature have always been discursively constructed ..
<span style="display: inline !important;"> This helps us look at Tibctanness as a politicized identification process, instead of some pregiven, essentialzed, fixed object.</span>








====AT: Cede the Political==== 
**Pragmatism fails – only the alt solves for the root cause of political paralysis**
**Reinsborough, 03** (Organizer, Rainforest Action Network and Wake Up America Campaign, 2003 (Journal of Aesthetics and Protest, August 2003, Volume 1, Issue 2, Patrick)

<span class="s1">The worst thing that can happen to our movements right now is to settle for too little ... **Frequently political pragmatism is used as an excuse for a lack of vision**</span><span class="s2">.</span>






====AT: Predictions==== 
**That’s the link—the idea that experts can somehow make claims about the world while others can’t maintains security logic—their arguments are empirically denied**
**Menand 5**—PhD from Columbia. Attended Harvard Law for one year. (Louis, 12/5, Everybody's an Expert, The New Yorker,<span class="s1"> <span class="s2">[[http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005/12/05/051205crbo_books1?printable=true%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005/12/05/051205crbo_books1?printable=true]]</span></span>)
<span class="s3">It i</span>s the somewhat gratifying lesson of Philip Tetlock’s new book, “Expert Political Judgment: How Good Is It? How Can We Know?” ... They<span class="s1">were seduced by the detail.</span>



**We’ll straight turn—their invocation of predictions is an independent reason to vote neg—The 1AC’s disaster gaming locks us into states of permanent war and makes catastrophes inevitable**
**Der Derian** **5**— [James Der Derian is a Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University HIR,<span class="s1"> <span class="s2">[[http://www.harvardir.org/articles/1430/2/%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.harvardir.org/articles/1430/2/]]</span></span>]
<span class="s3">It oft</span>en takes a catastrophe to reveal the illusory beliefs we continue to harbor in national and homeland security.<span class="s4"> ... </span>prolongation of total war by other means.”





====AT: Threats Real==== 
**Even if they win that their impacts are real, it only masks the root cause—questioning the securitization of the 1AC solves**
**Mack**, former prof, **91**—former prof at Harvard Medical School. MD in Psychiatry. (John E., Psychodynamics of International Relationships Vol 1 p. 58-59)
<span class="s2">Attempts to explore the psychological roots of enmity are ... </span><span class="s1">we never see our enemy’s motives and we never labor to asses his will with anything approaching objectivity.”</span>



**Our alternative solves the case better - by de-securitizing we can solve political issues while avoiding the baggage of their representations - It’s not a question of military deployment but the method for such withdrawal.**
<span class="s1">**Wæver**</span><span class="s2"> 19</span><span class="s1">**98**</span> (Ole, Professor of International Relations at the Department of Political Science, University of Copenhagen, “Securitization and Desecuritization,” On Security, ed. Lipschutz, Columbia University Press,)
Finally, the approach I have proposed above points toward a study of the mechanisms leading ... <span style="font-size: 11px;">or one will be pulled into the process as co-securitizer. </span>



**Threats are constructed – they can’t solve them**
<span class="s1">**Rule, 10**</span> (James, PhD Harvard, MA Oxford, BA Brandeis, <span class="s2">The Military State of America and the Democratic Left</span>, Dissent Vol. 57 No 1, Winter 20<span class="s2">10)</span>

<span class="s3">So </span><span class="s2">what can the democratic Left offer as an alternative to the endless agenda of American world domination ... </span>
<span style="display: inline !important;"><span class="s1"> Such **justifications must never come from the democratic Left.**</span></span>


===Heg Good K=== 
====1NC==== 
**The 1ac functions as a criticism of the status quo US foreign policy creating a rhetoric that risks unraveling the current unipolar world. Each criticism contributes to neo-isolationist tendencies that create a potential foil to American predominance.**
**KAGAN 98** senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace<span class="s2"> [Robert, “The Benevolent Empire,” </span><span class="s3">Foreign Policy</span><span class="s2">, summer]</span>

<span class="s4">Those contributing to the growing chorus of antihegemony</span><span class="s5"> and multipolarity </span><span class="s4">may know they are playing a dangerous game</span><span class="s5">, </span><span class="s4">one that needs to be conducted with the utmost care</span><span class="s5">, as French leaders did during the Cold War, lest the entire international system come crashing down around them. [ … ] </span><span class="s4">. World leaders may want to keep this in mind when they pop the champagne corks in celebration of the next American humbling</span><span class="s6">**.**</span>
**Threats are inevitable – if the US calls a timeout, the world is doomed – conflicts will escalate and natural disaster victims will be left to die**
<span class="s7">**Thayer, professor of security studies at Missouri State,** </span>**November** <span class="s7">**06** </span> **(Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)**

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's number one power‑the diplomatic, economic and military leader. […]
<span class="s4">As the War on Terror is a war of ideas and opinion as much as military action, for the U</span><span class="s5">nited </span><span class="s4">S</span><span class="s5">tates </span><span class="s4">humanitarian missions are the equivalent of a blitzkrieg</span><span class="s6">.</span>

**Even if the current world sucks – the alternative is worse - The collapse of US heg causes a multipolar vacuum leading to multiple scenarios for extinction**
<span class="s7">**Ferguson** </span>**– Professor of History at New York University's Stern School of Business and Senior fellow at the Hoover Institution**<span class="s7"> **– 2004** </span><span class="s8">**[Niall, “A world without power,” Foreign Policy 143, p. 32-39, July-August]** </span>

<span class="s4">So what is left? [ … ] And far more dangerous forces than rival great powers would benefit from such a not-so-new world disorder</span><span class="s6">.</span>

<span class="s4">**The alternative is to reject the aff as a signal of commitment to US imperial resolve.** </span>

**It is necessary to maintain support for US hegemony because our academic discourse actually effects foreign policy**
<span class="s7">**MEARSHEIMER 95** </span>**Professor of Political Science and the co-director of the Program on International Security Policy at the University of Chicago. West Point graduate, retired Air Force officer**
**(John, Professor Political Science at the University of Chicago, International Security, Summer, p. 93)**

<span class="s4">The discussion of institutions up to now has a distinct academic flavor. […] </span><span class="s5">Thus</span><span class="s4">, it would seem to make sense, from both a moral and a strategic perspective, for institutionalists to tone down their claims about the peace-causing effects of institutions until they have solid evidence to support their positions</span>


====Links - Discourse==== 
**The policy of the aff is irrelevant – we must prioritize our rhetoric. The lack of moral confidence in US hardline policies of prioritizing security over liberty risks a collapse in US primacy. The rhetoric and confidence of the polis is the most important aspect of American hegemony.**
<span class="s1">**KRISTOL & KAGAN 96** </span>**Editor of the Weekly Standard & senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [**<span class="s2">**William and Robert, “Toward a Neo-Reaganite Foreign Policy,”** </span><span class="s3">**Foreign Affairs**</span><span class="s2">**, july/august]**</span>

<span class="s4">TWENTY YEARS later, </span><span class="s5">it is time</span><span class="s4"> once again </span><span class="s5">to challenge an indifferent America</span><span class="s4"> and a confused American conservatism. Today's lukewarm consensus about America's reduced role in a post-Cold War world is wrong. [… ] </span><span class="s5">The appropriate goal of American foreign policy</span><span class="s4">, therefore, </span><span class="s5">is to preserve that hegemony as far into the future as possible. To achieve this goal, the United States needs a</span><span class="s4"> neo-Reaganite </span><span class="s5">foreign policy of military supremacy and moral confidence. </span>



**Acceptance of our imperial role in public discourse and debate must be considered before the impact of imperial policies**
<span class="s6">**Lal 02** </span>James S. Coleman Professor of International Development Studies at UCLA
**[Deepak “In Defense of Empires” AEI Henry Wendt Lectures, October 30th (http://www.aei.org/publications/pubID.14835,filter.all/pub_detail.asp)]**

<span class="s7">My conclusions can be brief.</span><span class="s5">[…] A beginning would be the acceptance in domestic politics that the U.S. is an imperial power. The real debate about how best to use that power could then sensibly ensue.</span>

**The Affirmative’s discourse of trying to get to the root cause of problems by changing the status quo of American military strategy destroys hegemony- only by maintaining our imperial presence across the globe can we solve inevitable conflict**
**Kagan 10**
[Robert Kagan, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace<span class="s2">, </span>The Wall Street Journal “The Need for Power” January 20th, 2010.]
<span class="s7"> If there is one thing that 2009 confirmed, it is that </span><span class="s5">the U.S. under Barack Obama remains a martial nation [ … ] The year 2009 showed that **the U.S., perhaps alone among the world's democracies, still sees war as an unfortunate but unavoidable fact of international life.** </span>


====Alt solves - Public support==== 
**FIRST - The choice is between US hegemony or absolute withdrawal from the world – maintaining support in the citizenship for active involvement is vital**
**KRISTOL & KAGAN 96** Editor of the Weekly Standard & senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
**[William and Robert, “Toward a Neo-Reaganite Foreign Policy,”** <span class="s1">**Foreign Affairs**</span>**, july/august]**

<span class="s1">History</span><span class="s2"> also </span><span class="s1">shows</span><span class="s2">, however, </span><span class="s1">that the American people can be summoned to meet the challenges of global leadership if states</span><span class="s2">men </span><span class="s1">make the case loudly</span><span class="s2">, </span><span class="s1">cogently, and persistently</span><span class="s2">. </span><span class="s1">[ … ] </span><span class="s2">This is as true today -- if less obviously so -- as it was at the beginning of the Cold War.</span>


====AT: No reps==== 
**Questions of policy can’t even be attempted without first examining the rhetoric of the policy – it proves our framework should come first. It isn’t that you create an artificial world where you ignore their aff – its just that ours is more important and we have evidence to support it.**
**DOTY 96 Assistant professor of Political Science at Arizona State University** <span class="s1">[Roxanne Lynn, </span><span class="s2">Imperial Encounters</span><span class="s1">, p. 170-171]</span>

<span class="s1">North-South relations have been constituted as a structure of deferral [ … ] </span><span class="s3">The price that</span><span class="s1"> international relations </span><span class="s3">scholarship pays for its inatten­tion to</span><span class="s1"> the issue of </span><span class="s3">representation is perpetuation of the dominant modes of making meaning and deferral of its responsibility and com­plicity in dominant representations</span><span class="s4">.</span>

**Rhetorical questions are the most important – the representations used are key to determining the value of the policy and its likelihood of implementation. This means you have to evaluate our impacts before considering theirs – this proves that you prioritize the risk of a link above and beyond solvency for the aff.**
**GORHAM 99 Professor of Communications – University of Wisconsin** <span class="s1">[Bradley, Howard Journal of Communications, spring]</span>

Racial stereotypes in the media : So what ? [ …] <span class="s5">These thus become important effects to understand</span>.


====AT: Threat con==== 
Threat con good - Solves war - be skeptical of their autors
<span class="s1">**Murray**</span>**, Professor of Political Theory at the University of Edinburgh,** <span class="s1">**1997**</span> **[Alastair J. H., //Reconstructing Realism: between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics//, p. 180]**

Yet, with this point, Wendt's discussion of realism has become detached from its reality. <span class="s1">[… ] As such, Wendt's attempt to attribute it 'a relentless pessimism' proves untenable.</span>


====AT: Predictions Bad==== 
**predicitons are possible and useful, despite the risk of error**
**Mearsheimer, 01** (John, professor of political science at the University of Chicago, <span class="s1">The Tragedy of Great Power Politic</span>s, 2001 p. 8, googleprint)

As a result, <span class="s1">all political forecasting is bound to include some error</span><span class="s2">.</span> […] In that spirit I employ offensive realism to peer into the future, mindful of both the benefits and the hazards of trying to predict events.


====AT: No VTL==== 
**2. Avoiding extinction is the basis for other values**
**Schell, 1984** (Jonathan Schell, <span class="s1">The Abolition</span>, 1984, p. 4-5)

<span class="s1">Sometimes it is suggested that</span> […]<span class="s1">And it is our desire to save those things—not merely the desire to save our own necks—which moves us to choose to save our species.</span>

**3. every life is an end in and of itself—killing or letting die can be justified on the grounds to maximize all life. we don’t calculate the value of life—we think all lives are infinitely valuable, but you should still save as many as you can**
**Cummisky, 96** **(David, professor of philosophy at Bates,** <span class="s1">**Kantian Consequentialism**</span>**, p. 131)**

Finally, <span class="s1">even if one grants that saving two persons with dignity cannot outweigh and compensate for killing one—because dignity cannot be added and summed this way—this point still does not justify deontological constraints. […]</span> In short, it is not clear how the extreme interpretation justifies the ordinary killing/letting-die distinction or even how it conflicts with the conclusion that <span class="s1">the more persons with dignity who are saved, the better.</span>


====AT: Consequences Bad==== 
**3. Consequentialism is necessary to minimalize suffering and conflict—this straight turns their arguments, no matter how cool they sound**

<span class="s1">**Murray**</span><span class="s2">**, Professor of Political Theory at the University of Edinburgh,** </span><span class="s1">**1997**</span> [Alastair J. H., //Reconstructing Realism: between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics//, p. 110]

Weber emphasised that, while the 'absolute ethic of the gospel' must be taken seriously, it is inadequate to the tasks of evaluation presented by politics. [ … ] This led Morgenthau to argue, in terms of the concern to reject doctrines which advocate that the end justifies the means, that <span class="s3">the impossibility of the logic underlying this doctrine 'leads to the negation of absolute ethical judgements altogether'.</span>13


====AT: Heg bad- noko war==== 
**Hegemony is key to stabilize Korea and prevent regional arms races**
**Lieber 2005** – PhD from Harvard, Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown, former consultant to the State Department and for National Intelligence Estimates (Robert, “The American Era”, pages 164-166, WEA)
<span class="s1">On the Korean peninsula</span>, in one of the world’s most dangerous and most heavily armed regions, <span class="s1">the American military</span> commitment <span class="s1">has deterred North Korea from seeking to invade</span> the South. [… ] The changes also modernized the foundation for a sustained American regional role by shifting to more flexible force structures with emphasis on high-tech weaponry and long-range precision strikes.


====AT: Interventionism==== 
**Heg is key to decease excess American interventionalism**
<span class="s1">**Kagan and Kristol, 2000**</span> (Robert and William, “Present Dangers”, Kagan is a Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and Kristol is the editor of The Weekly Standard, and a political analyst and commentator, page 13-14 )

It is worth pointing out, though, that a foreign policy premised on <span class="s3">American hegemony</span>, and on the blending of principle with material interest, <span class="s3">may in fact mean fewer, not more, overseas interventions than under the "vital interest" standard. [ … ] </span>By contrast, the vital interest standard is that of a "normal" power that awaits a dramatic challenge before it rouses itself into action.


====AT: Heg Unsustainable==== 
# **1. Be skeptical of their authors**
Charles <span class="s1">**Krauthammer**</span>, American Pulitzer Prize-winning syndicated columnist and political commentator, <span class="s1">**09**</span>
[“Decline Is a Choice,” The Standard, Volume 15, Issue 5, October 2009]

<span class="s2">The weathervanes of conventional wisdom are engaged in another round of angst about America in decline [ … ] American decline is a straight-line projection of the fearful, pessimistic mood of a country war-weary and in the grip of a severe recession</span><span class="s3">.</span>


# **2. Primacy is completely sustainable – cries of decline are one-sided and historically disproven.**
Steven G. <span class="s1">**Brooks --AND--**</span> William C. <span class="s1">**Wohlforth**</span>, Associate Professors of Government at Dartmouth College, <span class="s1">**09**</span>
[“Reshaping the World Order,” Foreign Affairs, March/April 2009, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/64652/stephen-g-brooks-and-william-c-wohlforth/reshaping-the-world-order]

<span class="s4">Now, </span><span class="s2">the conventional wisdom is that the world is rapidly approaching the end of the unipolar […] the United States will long be in a far stronger position to lead the world than any other state</span><span class="s5">.</span>


====AT: Case outweighs==== 
# **1. Even if the status quo sucks, cutting foreign commitments results in a much worse world, only a risk that the alt is better**
Robert J. <span class="s1">**Lieber**</span> (Professor of Government and International Affairs @ Georgetown University) <span class="s1">**2005**</span> The American Era: Power and Strategy for the 21st Century p 53-4
<span class="s2">Withdrawal from foreign commitments might seem to be a means of evading hostility toward the United States [ ...] of economic stagnation and civilization’s retreat into a few fortified enclaves</span><span class="s3">.”23</span>




===D&G (State PIK)=== 
====1NC==== 
**Contention One is the Advocacy:**
**We affirm the micropolitics of the 1AC rhizomatically as a means of political strategy but reject the use of a government based plan of action.**

**The 1AC simultaneously defends two interpretations of political strategy. There is a plan-oriented pragmatic strategy which surrounds the one sentence traditional plan text. There is also a bottom-up movement which takes the form of micrpolitics described in the 1AC** Meinzerin et al. **evidence. We defend the micropolitical process as described in their 1AC Meinzerin et al evidence and reject the goals-oriented form of politics which constructs the plan.**
**And this is sufficient to solve**
Conley in 2006
(Verena Andermatt, <span class="s2">**professor of literature at Harvard**</span>, “Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, 95-100)

In their dialogues and collaborations, Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari enquire of the nature of borders. They summon principles of inclusion and exclusion associated with borderlines. They eschew expressions built on the polarities of ‘either … or’ and in their own diction replace binary constructions with the conjunctive ‘and’. Furthermore, in ‘Rhizome,’ the introduction to A Thousand Plateaus, they argue for rhizomatic connections – fostered in language by ‘and … and … and’ – to replace what they call the arborescent model of the ubiquitous Western tree (Deleuze and Guattari 1987). In constant movement, the tissues and tendrils of rhizomes call attention to the horizontal surfaces of the world in which they proliferate. They bring to their observer a new sense of space that is seen not as a background but a shape that, with the rhizome, moves and forever changes. In the field of play Deleuze and Guattari often produce hybrid, even viral connections and downplay the presence of genealogies conveyed in the figure of the tree bearing a stock-like trunk. Rhizomatic connections form open territories that are not constricted by the enclosing frame of a rigid borderline. In the same breath the two philosophers argue for ‘smooth’ space of circulation. They take a critical view of ‘striated’ spaces, replete with barriers and borders that are part of an ‘arborescent’ mentality. Striated spaces cross-hatched by psychic or real borderlines drawn by the state (social class, race, ethnicities) or by institutions (family, school), prevent the emergence of new ways of thinking. Crucial, Deleuze and Guattari declare, is the mental and social construction of new territories and the undoing of inherited barriers. Institutional, familial and even psychoanalytical striations that impede a person’s mobility in mental and physical spheres need to be erased or, at least, drawn with broken lines. When guilt is at the basis of the unconsciousness, productivity and creativity are diminished. Movement is also arrested wherever the state erects barriers between social classes, races and sexes. To facilitate connections and erase mental or physical borders, Deleuze and Guattari want to do away with the state as well as its institutions. It is as anarchists of sorts and with an insistence on aesthetic paradigms that Deleuze and Guattari argue for making connections and for an ongoing smoothing of striated spaces. In the pages to follow, I will argue that today the problems of broders and barriers is as acute as ever. I will probe how Deleuze and Guattari’s findings on rhizomes and smooth spaces elaborated in a post-1968, European, context might work today in a changed world-space. Is the struggle still between a paternal, bourgeois state and its subjects? Are the state and its institutions still targeted in the same way? Is the undoing of the subject – often through aesthetics – still valid, or is there a need for a more situated subject? We will first rehash the Deleuzian concept of rhizome and smooth space before investigating whether and how these concepts are operative in the contemporary world. Since 1968, the world has undergone many changes. Over the last few decades decolonization, transportation and electronic revolutions have transformed the world. They have led to financial and population flows. Financial flows seem to be part of a borderless world. Today, human migrations occur on all continents. They are producing multiple crossings of external borders that in many places have resulted in local resistance and, in reaction, to the erection of more internal borders that inflect new striated spaces in the form of racism and immigration policy. The ultimate goal for the utopian thinking espousing the cause of thrizomatic thinking is smooth space that would entail the reassure of all borders and the advent of a global citizenry living in ease and without the slightest conflict over religion or ideology. In the transitional moment in which we find ourselves arguing for smooth space can easily lead to a non-distinction between alternative spaces in which goods and currencies circulate to the detriment of the world at large. To account for the transformation specifically of the state and its subjects in a global world, I will argue by way of recent writings by Etienne Balibar for the continued importance of rhizomatic connectivity and also for a qualified notion of smooth space. Striated spaces will have to be continually smoothed so that national borders would not simply encircle a territory. Borders would have to be made more porous and nationality disconnected from citizenship so as to undo striated space inside the state by inventing new ways of being in common. Such a rethinking of borders would lead to further transformations by decoupling the nation from the state. It would open the possibility of – rhizomatic – connections and new spaces. It would produce new hybrids everywhere without simply a ‘withering away of the state’ as advocated by Deleuze and Guattari. Currently, subjects (defined as humans who are assuettis [subjected] to paternal state powers) also want to be citizens (who can individually and collectively define the qualities of their habitus or environment). Yet, the latter are still part of the state. They are not yet entirely global, transnational citizens or cyber-citizens. While information networks seem to operate like rhizomes, it is of continued importantance to retain the notion of state but to define it with more porous, connective borderlines so as ultimately to disconnect citizens from nationality. Deleuze and Guattari figure with other philososphers, anthropologists or sociologists who, following 1968, pay renewed attention to space. Their focus on space reappers at the very time Cartesian philosophies ondergo radical changes due to the acceleration of new technologies and rapid globalization. Many thinkers – Henri Lefebvre, Michel de Certeau, Jean Baudrillard, Paul Virilio – condemn what they perceive as the increasing encroachment of technologies that quickly replace more traditional ways of being in the world. People who find themselves out of synch with their environment urge recourse to the body and new ways of using language. Deleuze and Guattari insert themselves into that line of thinking. Their criticism of the static order is twofold. They criticize an inherited special model defined by vertical orderings that has dominated the West. In that model, space was considered to be pre-existing. It became a simple décor for human action. Deleuze and Guattari propose not only a criticism of the static model but also invent an entirely new way of thinking space. They propose a more horizontal – and, paradoxically, if seemingly two-dimensional, even more spatial – thinking of the world in terms of rhizomatic lines and networks. In accordance with Deleuze and Guattari’s way of thinking through connections, the two regimes always coexist in an asymmetrical relation. They can never be entirely separated or opposed. In ‘Rhizome’, first published in French in 1976 and translated into English as ‘On the Line’, Deleuze and Guattari claim that for several hundred years it was believed that the world was developing vertically in the shape of a tree (Deleuze and Guattari 1983). The choice of a tree limits possibilities, the mature tree is already contained in the seed. There is some leeway as to form and size, but the seed will become nothing more than the tree that it is destined to be. In lieu of the tree, Deleuze and Guattari propose an adventitious network, a mobile structure that can be likened to underground filaments of grass or the mycelia of fungi. A rhizome moves horizontally and produces offshoots from multiple bifurcations at its meristems. It changes its form by connecting and reconnecting. It does not have finite or ultimate shape. Space does not pre-exist the rhizome; rather, it is created through and between the proliferating lines. Rhizomes connect and open spaces in-between which, in the rooted world of the trees, an inside (the earth) is eparated from an outside (the atmosphere). Unlike the tree, the rhizome can never be fixed or reduced to a single point or radical core. It’s movement is contrasted with the stasis of the arborescent model. In ‘Rhizome’ the vertical, arborescent model contributes to the creation of striated spaces. In the ebullient imagination of the two authors it appears that the latter slow down and even prevent movement of the kind they associate with emancipation and creativitiy. Instead of imitating a tree, Deleuze and Guattari exhort their readers to make connections by following multiple itineraries of investigation, much as a rhizome moves about the surfaces it creates as it goes. Rhizomes form a territory that is neither fixed nor bears any clearly delimited borders. In addition to this novel way of thinking rhizomatically, the philosophers make further distinction between smooth and striated spaces. Smooth spaces allow optimal circulations and favour connections. Over time, however, smooth spaces tend to become striated. They lose their flexibility. Nodes and barriers appear that slow down circulation and reduces the number of possible connections. Writing Anti-Oedipus in a post-1968 climate, Deleuze and Guattari propose rhizomatic connections that continually rearticulate smooth space in order not only to criticize bourgeois capitalism with its institutions – the family, school, church, the medical establishment (especially psychiatry) – but also to avoid what they see as a deadened or zombified state of things. They criticize the state for erecting mental and social barriers and for creating oppositions instead of furthering connections. Institutions and the state are seen as the villains that control and immobilize people from the top down. They argue that when the family, the church or the ‘psy’ instill guilt in a child, mental barriers and borders are erected. The child’s creativity, indeed its mental and physical mobility are diminished in the process. Such a condition cripples many adults who have trees growing in their heads. Deleuze and Guattari cite the example of Little Hans, a child analysed by Freud and whose creativity, they declare, was blocked by adults who wrongly interpreted his attempts to trace lines of flights within and through the structure of the family into which he had been born (Deleuze and Guattari 1987: 14). The state, too, functions by ordering, organizing and arresting movement, by creating relations of inclusion and exclusion. The state facilitates the creation of rigid and often ossified institutions. It enacts laws of inclusion and exclusion that order the family and the social in general. It tries to immobilise and dominate the social world. Yet the social cannot be entirely dominated. The organising régime of the order-word is never stable. It is constantly being transformed. Lines detach themselves from fuzzy borders and introduce variations in the constant of the dominant order. These variations can lead to a break and produce lines of flight that bring about entirely new configurations. Of importance in the late 1960s and 1970s is the doing away with institutions and the state that repress subjects. In Anti-Oedipus, the philosophers show how institutions like the family and psychiatry repress sexuality and desire in order to maximise their revenue. They argue for the creation of smooth spaces where desire can circulate freely. In A Thousand Plateaus, the bourgeois state ordered by the rules of capitalism is criticised. Deleuze and Guattari rarely contextualise the ‘state’ in any specific historical or political terms. Constructing a universal history of sorts, the philosophers note that the state apparatus appears at different times and in different places. This apparatus is always one of capture. It appropriates what they call a ‘nomadic war machine’ that never entirely disappears. The nomadic war machine eludes capture and traces its own lines of flight. It makes its own smooth spaces. Here Deleuze and Guattari have faith in ‘subjects’ who undermine control by creating new lines of flight. These subjects deviate from the dominant order that uses ‘order-words’ to obtain control. Orderwords produce repetitions and reduce differences. They produce molar structures and aggregates that make it more difficult for new lines to take flight. Yet something stirs, something affects a person enough to make her or him deviate from the prescriptive meanings of these words. Deleuze and Guattari would say that the subject molecularises the molar structures imposed by the state. People continually trace new maps and invent lines of flight that open smooth spaces. Deleuze and Guattari call it a ‘becoming-revolutionary’ of the people. In 1980, the philosophers also claim that humans inaugurate an age of becoming-minoritarian. The majority, symbolised by the 35-year-old, white, working male, they declare, no longer prevails. A new world is opening, a world of becoming-minoritarian in which women, AfroAmerican, post-colonial and queer subjects of all kinds put the dominant order into variation. Changes of this nature occur at the limit of mental and social territories, from unstable borders without any clearly defined division between inside and outside. They occur in and through affects, desire and language. For Deleuze and Guattari, becoming-minoritarian Borderlines 99 must be accompanied by a withering of the state and its institutions without which any generalised transformation would be impossible. Though they make clear in ‘Rhizome’ that the connections they advocate are different from those of computers that function according to binary oppositions, the philosophers keep open the possibilities of transformations of subjectivities by means of technologies (Deleuze and Guattari 1987: 475). Deleuze and Guattari are keenly aware both of the ways that technologies transform subjectivities and of writing in a postcolonial, geopolitical context. Nonetheless, they write about the state in a rather general and even monolithic way without specifically addressing a given ‘nationstate’. It is as if the real villain were a general European concept of state inherited from the romantic age. The institutional apparatus of the state dominates and orders its subjects, preventing them from being creative or pursuing their desires. It keeps them from making revolutionary connections (Deleuze and Guattari 1987: 473). To construct rhizomes and create smooth spaces for an optimal circulation of desire, the state, armed with its ‘order-words’, has to be fought until, finally, it withers away and, in accord with any and every utopian scenario, all identity is undone.

**Disconnect yourself from the state, from collectives, from everything bigger than our agency. It is only when desire is confined and controlled, added to some larger pool, that we lose sight of our ability to form unique judgments and come to unique conclusions. Recognizing this individualism is necessary to challenge fascism**
Deleuze and Guattari, 1987
[A Thousand Plateaus pg 158-159]

We come to the gradual realization that the BwO is not at all the opposite of the organs. The organs are not its enemies. The enemy is the organism. The BwO is opposed not to the organs but to that organization of the organs called the organism. It is true that Artaud wages a struggle against the organs, but at the same time what he is going after, what he has it in for, is the organism: The body is the body. Alone it stands. And in no need of organs. Organism it never is. Organisms are the enemies of the body. 11 The BwO is not opposed to the organs; rather, the BwO and its "true organs," which must be composed and positioned, are opposed to the organism, the organic organization of the organs. The judgment of God, the system of the judgment of God, the theological system, is precisely the operation of He who makes an organism, an organization of organs called the organism, because He cannot bear the BwO, because He pursues it and rips it apart so He can be first, and have the organism be first. The organism is already that, the judgment of God, from which medical doctors benefit and on which they base their power. The organism is not at all the body, the BwO; rather, it is a stratum on the BwO, in other words, a phenomenon of accumulation, coagulation, and sedimentation that, in order to extract useful labor from the BwO, imposes upon it forms, functions, bonds, dominant and hierarchized organizations, organized transcendences. The strata are bonds, pincers. "Tie me up if you wish." We are continually stratified. But who is this we that is not me, for the subject no less than the organism belongs to and depends on a stratum? Now we have the answer: the BwO is that glacial reality where the alluvions, sedimentations, coagulations, foldings, and recoilings that compose an organism—and also a signification and a subject—occur. For the judgment of God weighs upon and is exercised against the BwO; it is the BwO that undergoes it. It is in the BwO that the organs enter into the relations of composition called the organism. The BwO howls: "They've made me an organism! They've wrongfully folded me! They've stolen my body!" The judgment of God uproots it from its immanence and makes it an organism, a signification, a subject. It is the BwO that is stratified. It swings between two poles, the surfaces of stratification into which it is recoiled, on which it submits to the judgment, and the plane of consistency in which it unfurls and opens to experimentation. If the BwO is a limit, if one is forever attaining it, it is because behind each stratum, encasted in it, there is always another stratum. For many a stratum, and not only an organism, is necessary to make the judgment of God. A perpetual and violent combat between the plane of consistency, which frees the BwO, cutting across and dismantling all of the strata, and the surfaces of stratification that block it or make it recoil. Let us consider the three great strata concerning us, in other words, the ones that most directly bind us: the organism, signifiance, and subjectifi-cation. The surface of the organism, the angle of signifiance and interpretation, and the point of subjectification or subjection. You will be organized, you will be an organism, you will articulate your body—otherwise you're just depraved. You will be signifier and signified, interpreter and interpreted—otherwise you're just a deviant. You will be a subject, nailed down as one, a subject of the enunciation recoiled into a subject of the statement—otherwise you're just a tramp. To the strata as a whole, the BwO opposes disarticulation (or n articulations) as the property of the plane of consistency, experimentation as the operation on that plane (no signifier, never interpret!), and nomadism as the movement (keep moving, even in place, never stop moving, motionless voyage, desubjectification). What does it mean to disarticulate, to cease to be an organism? How can we convey how easy it is, and the extent to which we do it every day? And how necessary caution is, the art of dosages, since overdose is a danger. You don't do it with a sledgehammer, you use a very fine file. You invent self-destructions that have nothing to do with the death drive. Dismantling the organism has never meant killing yourself, but rather opening the body to connections that presuppose an entire assemblage, circuits, conjunctions, levels and thresholds, passages and distributions of intensity, and territories and deterritorializations measured with the craft of a surveyor. Actually, dismantling the organism is no more difficult than dismantling the other two strata, signifiance and subjectification. Signifiance clings to the soul just as the organism clings to the body, and it is not easy to get rid of either. And how can we unhook ourselves from the points of subjectification that secure us, nail us down to a dominant reality? Tearing the conscious away from the subject in order to make it a means of exploration, tearing the unconscious away from signifiance and interpretation in order to make it a veritable production: this is assuredly no more or less difficult than tearing the body away from the organism. Caution is the art common to all three; if in dismantling the organism there are times one courts death, in slipping away from signifiance and subjection one courts falsehood, illusion and hallucination and psychic death. Artaud weighs and measures every word: the conscious "knows what is good for it and what is of no value to it: it knows which thoughts and feelings it can receive without danger and with profit, and which are harmful to the exercise of its freedom. Above all, it knows just how far its own being goes, and just how far it has not yet gone or does not have the right to go without sinking into the unreal, the illusory, the unmade, the unprepared ... a Plane which normal consciousness does not reach but which Ciguri allows us to reach, and which is the very mystery of all poetry. But there is in human existence another plane, obscure and formless, where consciousness has not entered, and which surrounds it like an unilluminated extension or a menace, as the case may be. And which itself gives off adventurous sensations, perceptions. These are those shameless fantasies which affect an unhealthy conscious. ... I too have had false sensations and perceptions and I have believed in them." 18


**Contention Two is the Net Benefits**
**Link 1 is the Fixidity of the Plan – the plan is a certainty – regardless of the process which results in the plan, it stands as a transcendent monument to the future goals of the movement. Because the plan dictates what the possible outcomes of politics can and cannot be, it has already sacrificed the ability to think creatively which is necessary to overcome the states attempt at counter-revolution**
Goddard in 2k6
(July 6th, 2006: The Encounter between Guattari and Berandi and the Post – Modern Era “Felix and Alice in Wonderland”; <span class="s3">[[http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpbifo1.htm]]</span>)

What this type of radio achieved most of all was the short-circuiting of representation in both the aesthetic sense of representing the social realities they dealt with and in the political sense of the delegate or the authorised spokesperson, in favour of generating a space of direct communication in which, as Guattari put it, “it is as if, in some immense, permanent meeting place—given the size of the potential audience—anyone, even the most hesitant, even those with the weakest voices, suddenly have the possibility of expressing themselves whenever they wanted. In these conditions, one can expect certain truths to find a new matter of expression.” In this sense, Radio Alice was also an intervention into the language of media; the transformation from what Guattari calls the police languages of the managerial milieu and the University to a direct language of desire: “direct speech, living speech, full of confidence, but also hesitation, contradiction, indeed even absurdity, is charged with desire. And it is always this aspect of desire that spokespeople, commentators and beaureaucrats of every stamp tend to reduce, to filter. [...] Languages of desire invent new means and tend to lead straight to action; they begin by ‘touching,’ by provoking laughter, by moving people, and then they make people want to ‘move out,’ towards those who speak and toward those stakes of concern to them.” It is this activating dimension of popular free radio that most distinguishes it from the usual pacifying operations of the mass media and that also posed the greatest threat to the authorities; if people were just sitting at home listening to strange political broadcasts, or being urged to participate in conventional, organised political actions such as demonstrations that would be tolerable but once you start mobilising a massive and unpredictable political affectivity and subjectivation that is autonomous, self-referential and self-reinforcing, then this is a cause for panic on the part of the forces of social order, as was amply demonstrated in Bologna in 1977. Finally, in the much more poetic and manifesto-like preface with which Guattari introduces the translation of texts and documents form Radio Alice, he comes to a conclusion which can perhaps stand as an embryonic formula for the emergence of the post-media era as anticipated by Radio Alice and the Autonomia movement more generally: In Bologna and Rome, the thresholds of a revolution without any relation to the ones that have overturned history up until today have been illuminated, a revolution that will throw out not only capitalist regimes but also the bastions of beaureaucratic socialism [...] , a revolution, the fronts of which will perhaps embrace entire continents but which will also be concentrated sometimes on a specific neighbourhood, a factory, a school. Its wagers concern just as much the great economic and technological choices as attitudes, relations to the world and singularities of desire. Bosses, police officers, politicians, beuareaucrats, professors and psycho-analysts will in vain conjugate their efforts to stop it, channel it, recuperate it, they will in vain sophisticate, diversify and miniaturise their weapons to the infinite, they will no longer succede in gathering up the immense movement of flight and the multitude of molecular mutations of desire that it has already unleashed. The police have liquidated Alice—its animators are hunted, condemned, imprisoned, their sites are pillaged—but its work of revolutionary deterritorialisation is pursued ineluctably right up to the nervous fibres of its persecutors.” This is because the revolution unleashed by Alice was not reducible to a political or media form but was rather an explosion of mutant desire capable of infecting the entire social field because of its slippery ungraspability and irreducibility to existing sociopolitical categories. It leaves the forces of order scratching their heads because they don’t know where the crack-up is coming from since it doesn’t rely on pre-existing identities or even express a future programme but rather only expresses immanently its own movement of auto-referential self-constitution, the proliferation of desires capable of resonating even with the forces of order themselves which now have to police not only these dangerous outsiders but also their own desires. This shift from fixed political subjectivities and a specified programme is the key to the transformation to a post-political politics and indeed to a post-media era in that politics becomes an unpredictable, immanent process of becoming rather than the fulfilment of a transcendental narrative. In today’s political language one could say that what counts is the pure potential that another world is possible and the movement towards it rather than speculation as to how that world will be organised. As Guattari concludes: “ The point of view of the Alicians on this question is the following: they consider that the movement that arrives at destroying the gigantic capitalist-beaureaucratic machine will be, a fortiori, completely capable of constructing an other world—the collective competence in the matter will come to it in the course of the journey, without it being necessary, at the present stage to outline projections of societal change.”

**Link 2- It’s basically a prisoner’s dilemma – the state will adapt and follow your politics. It is worthless to challenge the state in a race to control – they have the lead and will copy our strategies before they can become successful. Their political strategy is doomed to failure.**
Dixit and Nalebuff 1993
(Avinash, John F. Sherrard University Professor of Economics at Princeton and Barry, Professor of economics and management at the yale school of organization and management. "Thinking Stategically")

After the first four races in the 1983 America’s Cup final Dennis Conner’s Liberty led 3-1 in a best-of-seven series. On the morning of the fifth race, “cases of champagne had been delivered to Liberty’s dock. And on their spectator yachy, the wives of the crew were wearing red-white-and-blue tops and shorts, in anticipation of having their picture taken after their husbands had prolonged the United States’ winning streak to 132 years.” It was not to be. At the start, Liberty got off to a 37-second lead when Australia II jumped the gun and had to recross the starting line. The Australian skipper, John Bertrand, tried to catch up by sailing way over to the left of the course in hopes of catching a wind shift. Dennis Connor chose to keep Liberty on the right-hand side of the course. Bertrand’s gamble paid off. The wind shifted five degrees in Australia II’s path. Two races later, Australia II won the series. Sailboat racing offers the chance to observe an interesting reversal of a “follow the leader” strategy. The leading sailboat usually copies the strategy of the trailing boat. When the follower tacks, so does the leader. The leader imitates the follower even when the follower is clearly pursuing a poor strategy. Why? Because in sailboat racing (unlike ballroom dancing) close doesn’t count: only winning matters. If you have the lead, the surest way to stay ahead is to play monkey see, monkey do.* Stock-market analysts and economic forecasters are not immune to this copycat strategy. The leading forecasters have an incentive to follow the pack and produce predictions similar to everyone else’s. This way people are unlikey to change their perception of these forecaster’s abilities. On the other hand, newcomers take the risky strategies: they tend to predict boom or doom. Usually they are wrong and are never heard of again, but now and again they are proven correct and move to the ranks of the famous. Industrial and technological competition offer further evidence. In the person-computer market, IBM is less known for its innovation than for its ability to bring standardized technology to the mass market. More new ideas have come from Apple, Sun, and other start-up companies. Risky innovations are their best and perhaps only chance of gaining market share. This is true not just of high-technology goods. Proctor and Gamble, the IBM of diapers, followed Kimberly Clark’s innovation of resealable diaper tape, and recaptured its commanding market position. There are two ways to move second. You can imitate as soon as the other has revealed his approach (as in sailboat racing) or wait longer until the success or failure of the approach is known (as in computers). The longer wait is more advantageous in business because, unlike sports, the competition is usually not winner-take-all. As a result, market leaders will not follow the upstarts until they also believe in the merits of their course.

**Link Three is the Agency Trade-off DA:**
**Their focus on the government as the site for transformative politics trades-off with immediate micropolitical activism. Waiting for the rev to gain momentum ignores the power we already have to create change. Your role is to dismiss the promise of future change to affirm already existing struggles**
Deleuze and Parnet 87
(Gilles and Claire, profs of philosophy: Dialogues II: p. 146-147)

What characterizes our current situation is both beyond and on this side of the State. Beyond national States, the development of a world market, the power of multinational companies, the outline of a ‘planetary’ organization, the extension of capitalism to the whole social body, clearly forms a great abstract machine which overcodes the monetary, industrial and technological fluxes. At the same time the means of exploitation, control and surveillance become more and more subtle and diffuse, in a certain sense molecular (the workers of the rich countries necessarily take part in the plundering of the Third World, men take part in the over-exploitation of women, etc.). But the abstract machine, with its dysfunctions, is no more infallible than the national States which are not able to regulate them on their own territory and from one territory to another. The State no longer has at its disposal the political, institutional or even financial means which would enable it to fend off the social repercussions of the machine; it is doubtful whether it can eternally rely on the old forms like the police, armies, bureaucracies, even trade union bureaucracies, collective installations, schools, families. Enormous land slides are happening on this side of the state, following lines of gradient or of flight, affecting principally: (1) the marking out of territories; (2) the mechanisms of economic subjugation (new characteristics of unemployment, of inflation; (3) the basic regulatory frameworks (crisis of the school, of trade unions, of the army, of women …); (4) the nature of the demands which become qualitative as much as quantitative (‘quality of life’ rather than the ‘standard of living’). All this constitutes what can be called a right to desire. It is not surprising that all kinds of minority questions – linguistic, ethnic, regional, about sex, or youth – resurge not only as archaisms, but in up-to-date revolutionary forms which call once more into question in an entirely immanent manner both the global economy of the machine and the assemblages of national States. Instead of gambling on the eternal impossibility of the revolution and on the fascist return of a war-machine in general, why not think that a new type of revolution is in the course of becoming possible, and that all kinds of mutating, living machines conduct wars, are combined and trace out a plane of consistence which undermines the plan of organization of the World and the States? For, once again, the World and its States are no more masters of their plane than revolutionaries are condemned to the deformation of theirs. Everything is played in uncertain games, ‘front to front, back to back, back to front…’. The question of the future of the revolution is a bad question because, in so far as it is asked, there are so many people who do not become revolutionaries, and this is exactly why it is done, to impede the question of the revolutionary-becoming of people, at every level, in every place.

**Link Four is Goals versus the Process - The status quo is paranoiac even in its attempt at counter culture. Status quo methodology confines experimentation to only processes with set goals in mind, destroying these movements from the beginning. We must instead abandon these final goals and embrace free thought.**
Deleuze and Guattari 1972<span class="s1">**, Anti-Oedipus, 370-1**</span>

The codes and their signifiers , the axiomatics and their structures, the imaginary figures that come to occupy them as well as the purely symbolic relationships that gauge them, constitute properly aesthetic molar formations that are characterized by goals, schools, and periods. They relate these aesthetic formations to greater social aggregates, finding in them a field of application, and everywhere enslave art to a great castrating machine of sovereignty. There is a pole of reactionary investment for art as well, a somber paranoiac-Oedipal-narcissistic organization. A foul use of painting, centering around the dirty little secret, even in abstract painting where the axiomatic does without figures: a style of painting whose secret essence is scatological, an oedipalizing painting, even when it has broken with the Holy Trinity as the Oedipal image, a neurotic or neuroticizing painting that makes the process into a goal or an arrest, an interruption, or a continuation in the void. This style of painting flourishes today, under the usurped name of modern painting-a poisonous flower-and brought one of Lawrence's heroes to speak much like Henry Miller of the need to have done with pouring out one's merciful and pitiful guts, these "flows of corrugated iron.":" The productive breaks projected onto the enormous unproductive cleavage of castration, the flows that have become flows of "corrugated iron," the openings blocked on all sides. And perhaps this, as we have seen, is Where we find the commodity value of art and literature: a paranoiac form of expression that no longer even needs to "signify" its reactionary libidinal investments, since these investments function on the contrary as its signifier; an Oedipal form of content that no longer even needs to represent Oedipus, since the "structure" suffices. But on the other, the schizorevolutionary, pole, the value of art is no longer measured except in terms of the decoded and deterritorialized flows that it causes to circulate beneath a signifier reduced to silence, beneath the conditions of identity of the parameters, across a structure reduced to impotence; a writing with pneumatic, electronic, or gaseous indifferent supports, and that appears all the more difficult and intellectual to intellectuals as it is accessible to the infirm, the illiterate, and the schizos, embracing all that flows and counterflows, the gushings of mercy and pity knowing nothing of meanings and aims (the Artaud experiment, the Burroughs experiment). It is here that art accedes to its authentic modernity, which simply consists in liberating what was present in art from its beginnings, but was hidden underneath aims and objects, even if aesthetic, and underneath recodings or axiomatics: the pure process that fulfills itself, and that never ceases to reach fulfillment as it proceeds-art as "experimentation.'

====2NC - overview==== 
**Focusing on the micropolitical is key to reengage agency**
Colebrook 2002
(Claire, Understanding Deleuze, Pg. xxxviii)

Human freedom became //the// problem. If human beings are free, does this mean that there is some ultimate ‘man’ who can be liberated from the forces of production; or does radical freedom mean that there is no longer any human essence to which politics can appeal? All this came to a head in the student sit-ins and disruptions of 1968. There were protests throughout Europe in the late 1960s which were random, unthought out, and motivated not by the economically defined class of workers so much as by students and intellectuals. In the aftermath of these disruptions it was realised that politics was no longer the affair of economic classes and large or ‘molar’ groupings. Local disruptions at the level of knowledge, ideas and identity could transform the political terrain. Deleuze and others opened the politics of the virtual: it was no longer accepted that actual material reality, such as the economy, produced ideas. Many insisted that the virtual (images, desires, concepts) was directly productive of social reality. This overturned the simple idea of ideology, the idea that images and beliefs were produced by the governing classes to deceive us about our real social conditions. We have to do away with the idea that there is some ultimate political reality or actuality which lies behind all our images. Images are not just surface effects of some underlying economic cause; images and the virtual have their own autonomous power. This is where structuralism and post-1968 politics intersected. We need to see our languages and systems of representation not just as masks or signs of the actual, but as fully real powers in their own right. The way we think, speak, desire and see the world is itself political; it produces relations, effects, and organises our bodies.

====Fixidity 2NC==== 
**Our link argument has 2 parts. The first is one of fixidity. We cannot begin our engagement with politics via a pre-determined plan of action. This guts solvency and leaves us powerless to adapt to specific situations, turns the case**
**Gilbert Et Al 2008**
(Jeremy Gilbert, Éric Alliez, Claire Colebrook, Peter Hallward, Nicholas Thoburn - all have PhDs and whatever; "Deleuzian Politics? A Roundtable Discussion"; New Formations)

Claire: If you think about contemporary politics: all we have to do is move from talking about national liberation movements and workers' movements to looking at some of the most tortured and vexed political situations, such as the relationship between indigenous Australian communities and European settled communities, and we can see that as long as we have a notion of collectivity that's founded on the traditional notion of labour and its organisation, then we will always be necessarily disenfranchising and robbing those people of a potential form of individuation. This is what this is all about. The key question is how you can take part in some form of collective action without necessarily being identified as or appealing to 'classes' in the old sense. So the 'molecularisation' of politics which Deleuze and Guattari propose is about how to get beyond a situation in which, within a given context of communication, there are things that can't be heard. The question is: how can you have some maximum degree of inclusion with a minimal degree of identification? This is a crucial question if you want a global politics which can allow for notions of contamination, and which can get beyond the limitations of models of politics modelled on opposed pairs of identities: workers vs. capitalists, national liberation struggles vs globalist struggles. You can't have that anymore: you can only have these extremely molecular, local, individuating political gestures. Peter: Well it depends on the situation. There are contexts where something like an indigenous mobilisation verging on identity politics, grounded in an indigenous tradition - as in parts of Bolivia and parts of Guatemala, and other places - has been politically significant and is today politically significant. The same applies to contemporary forms of class struggle. Of course things are changing all the time, but the basic logic of class struggle hasn't changed that much over time: the dynamics of exploitation and domination at issue today are all too familiar, and remain a major factor in most if not all contemporary political situations. Claire: That's why the model of political engagement needs to be re-thought, why in a Deleuzian register one always refers to a 'becoming-x' . Because yes, there is a strategic need for molar or identifiable movements. But if they start to think 'OK - this is our movement, this is what we are identified as, and this is the only way it's going to work', then apart from the philosophical problems of identity that run there, such a movement is also going to destroy itself precisely by being identified and stable. The only way a transformatory political project is going to work is if it has a notion of redefinition that is inbuilt.

**The second part of the link is visibility – once the state knows your plan of attack cooption is an inevitability. The only successful attacks against the state require invisible and unknowable challenges to state hegemony. Even if their politics could create change it would be rubber-stamped by the state and rendered always-already an empty signifier creating only enough change to be completely worthless. The visibility of the plan negates revolutionary potential.**
The Invisible Committee 2009
(an anonymous group of French intellectuals. The coming insurrection.)

In a demonstration, a union member tears the mask off of an anonymous person who has just broken a window. “Take responsibility for what you’re doing instead of hiding yourself.” To be visible is to be exposed, that is to say above all, vulnerable. When leftists everywhere continually make their cause more “visible” – whether that of the homeless, of women, or of undocumented immigrants – in hopes that it will get dealt with, they’re doing exactly the contrary of what must be done. Not making ourselves visible, but instead turning the anonymity to which we’ve been relegated to our advantage, and through conspiracy, nocturnal or faceless actions, creating an invulnerable position of attack. The fires of November 2005 offer a model for this. No leader, no demands, no organization, but words, gestures, complicities. To be socially nothing is not a humiliating condition, the source of some tragic lack of recognition – from whom do we seek recognition? – but is on the contrary the condition for maximum freedom of action. Not claiming your illegal actions, only attaching to them some fictional acronym – we still remember the ephemeral BAFT (Brigade Anti-Flic des Tarterêts) 25 – is a way to preserve that freedom. Quite obviously, one of the regime’s first defensive maneuvers was the creation of a “banlieue” subject to treat as the author of the “riots of November 2005.” Just looking at the faces on some of this society’s somebodies illustrates why there’s such joy in being nobody.


====Game Theory 2NC==== 
**Our Dixit and Nalebluff evidence is better than their link defense because it applies rational game theory as a model for understanding political struggle. Game theory is a preferable way of understanding political strategy because it takes into account the reaction of the state. They lead to form of tunnel-vision politics which can only account for actions in a static vacuum. Even if our 1NC evidence is only a metaphor, we should draw from that metaphor and apply it to the specific context of the status quo.**
**Here is contextual framework evidence to support that**
Dixit and Nalebuff, 93
(Avinash, John F. Sherrard University Professor of Economics at Princeton and Barry, Professor of economics and management at the yale school of organization and management. "Thinking Stategically")

Introduction What Is Strategic Behavior? How should people behave in society? Our answer does not deal with ethics or etiquette. Nor do we aim to compete with philosophers, preachers, or even Emily Post. Our theme, although less lofty, affects the lives of all of us just as much as do morality and manners. This book is about strategic behavior. All of us are strategists, whether we like it or not. It is better to be a good strategist than a bad one, and this books aims to help you improve your skills at discovering and using effective strategies. Work, even social life, is a constant stream of decisions. What career to follow, how to manage a business, whom to marry, how to bring up children, whether to run for president, are just some examples of such fateful choices. The common element in these situations is that you do not act in a vacuum. Instead, you are surrounded by active decision-makers whose choices interact with yours. This interaction has an important effect on your thinking and actions. To illustrate the point, think of the difference between the decisions of a lumberjack and those of a general. When the lumberjack decides how to chop wood, he does not expect the wood to fight back; his environment is neutral. But when the general tries to cut down the enemy’s army, just must anticipate and overcome resistance to his plans. Like the general, you must recognize that your business rivals, prospective spouse, and even your child are intelligent and purposive people. Their aims often conflict with yours, but they include some potential allies. Your won choice must allow for the conflict, and utilize the cooperation. Such interactive decisions are called strategic, and the plan of action appropriate to them is called a strategy. This book aims to help you think strategically, and then translate these thoughts into action. The branch of social science that studies strategic decision-making is called game theory. The games in this theory range from chess to child-rearing, from tennis to takeovers, and from advertising to arms control. As the Hungarian humorist George Mikes expressed it, “Many continentals think life is a game; the English think cricket is a game.” We think both are right. Playing these games requiring many different kinds of skills. Basic skills, such as shooting ability in basketball, knowledge of precedents in law, or a blank face in poker, are on kind; strategic thinking is another. Strategic thinking starts with your basic skills, and considers how best to use them. Knowing the law, you must decide the strategy for defending your client. Knowing how well your football team can pass or run, and how well the other team can defend against each choice, your decision as the coach is whether to pass or to run. Sometimes, as in the case of superpowers contemplating an adventure that risks nuclear war, strategic thinking also means knowing when not to play. Our aim is to improve your strategy I.Q. But we have not tried to provide a book of recipes for strategies. We develop the idea and principles of strategic thinking; to apply them to a specific situation you face and to find the right choice there, you will have to do some more work. This is because the specifics of each situation are likely to differ in some significant aspects, and any general prescriptions for action we might give could be misleading. In each situation, you will have to pull together principles of good strategy we have discussed, and also other principles from other considerations. You must combine them and, where they conflict with each other, evaluate the relative strengths of the different arguments. We do not promise to solve every question you might have. The science of game theory is far from being complete, and in some ways strategic thinking remains an art.

**This they cannot solve – the state’s ability to quickly adapt to our strategies means it will always maintain its lead. For every Jon Stewart there are twenty Glenn Becks, and there is a strange pattern of tanks and S.W.A.T. teams showing up at protests.**

**It is hopeless to combine the creation of new forms of political subjectivity with demands upon the state. They let the state set the agenda which dooms failure because it leaves their protest beholden to the state. Instead of trying to control and repress the state, we should build outside of it**
Holloway, 2010
(John, Professor in the Instituto de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades of the Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla in Mexico, Crack Capitalism, 49-50)

Cracks break with the logic of capitalist society. To that logic we oppose a different way of doing things. We want to break the system, the social cohesion that holds us in place and obliges us to act in certain ways. Dignity is a cutting edge shearing through the tight, tough, compact weave of capitalist domination. Dignity is an ice-breaker, its sharp bows cutting into an enormous mass of compacted ice, the apparently unbreakable horror that we call capitalism. Dignity is a pick-axe wielded against the encroaching walls that threaten to crush the whole of humanity. Dignity is a blade hacking at the strands of the spider's web that holds us entrapped. The weapon of dignity is otherness, other-living, other-doing. The otherness of dignity is a weapon, an otherness-against, a misfitting directed (explicitly or not) against that which we do not fit into: a world of exploitation and destruction. The spaces and moments we have called cracks are often described as autonomous spaces, or spaces of exodus or escape. We have tended to avoid these terms here simply because they draw attention away from the crucial issue: the conflict between these space-moments and the world that surrounds them. It is important to sing the glories of the worlds that are being created, the new social relations and the new ways of doing things: but we cannot go very far without talking of the clash with the world to which these dignities are opposed. There is a constant antagonism, a constant pressure to make the otherness yield to the enormous cohesive force of the society that surrounds us. The spaces are not autonomous, though they aspire to be. They are rather cracks, the sharp ends of a social conflict. Dignity is an attack on capitalism, but not necessarily a confrontation. To confront capital is to allow it to set the agenda. Dignity consists in setting our own agenda: this is what we shall do, irrespective of capital. If capital chooses to repress us, to coopt us, to imitate us, so be it, but let it be clear that we lead the dance. This certainly does not mean, cannot mean, that we cease to struggle against capitalism, but that, as far as possible, we take the initiative, we set the agenda, we make it clear that it is capitalism struggling against us, our lives, our projects, our humanity. Dignity is to refuse-and-create: to refuse to make capitalism and to create a new world. In an article on the movement in Oaxaca, Gustavo Esteva comments, 'Thousands, millions of people assume now that the time has come to walk our own path. As the Zapatistas say, to change the world is very difficult, if not impossible. A more pragmatic attitude demands the construction of a new world. That's what we are now trying to do, as if we had already won' (Esteva 2007d: 7).1 Building a new world does of course mean changing the existing one, but the shift in emphasis is crucial: instead of focusing our attention on the destruction of capitalism, we concentrate on building something else. This is an inversion of the traditional revolutionary perspective that puts the destruction of capitalism first and the construction of the new society second. To make a new world means to cut the web that binds us into the cohering force of capitalist society, so that we can create something different. The enemy is the social synthesis of capitalist society. 50

====Goal Politics 2NC==== 
**Directing our policies towards the state ultimately undoes the good from experimental politics and recreates oppression. Instead we must abandon the seeking of the state.**
Holloway, 2010
(John, Professor in the Instituto de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades of the Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla in Mexico, Crack Capitalism, 60-61)

But then what do we say of Bolivia and Venezuela? Are they to be counted as cracks in capitalist domination? Probably all revolutionary movements are a confluence of many movements, of people fighting for change in different ways and for different reasons. We have simplified this multiplicity by emphasising two forms of struggle; the politics of dignity and the politics of poverty, the politics of councils or assemblies and the politics of parties focused on the state. These two struggles are often interwoven, often mixed within the same organisation or indeed the same individual, but the way in which they interact will have profound consequences for the movement for change. The Russian revolution, for example, was a complex mixture of council (soviet) organisation and state-centred organisation. The tension between the two forms of organisation led to the suppression of the soviets and the development of an oppressive regime under the mocking title of the Soviet Union. In other cases, the development has been less disastrous and less bloody, but the politics of monologue has undoubtedly prevailed: Cuba is a case in point. In the case of Bolivia and Venezuela, the processes are still open at the time of writing, but with a clear predominance of the state. Raquel Gutierrez, in her profound analysis of the struggles in Bolivia (2009), distinguishes between the 'national-popular' struggle and the 'communitarian-popular' struggle.19 The latter comes from and develops the traditional communitarian forms of direct democracy and has at its centre the affirmation of dignity and a refusal to accept alien domination. It was this that was the driving force of the struggles from 2000 to 2005. But this struggle of dignity was overlaid by the 'national-popular struggle', which focuses on the state and pushes for the concretisation of the achievements of the struggles in the form of a new government. This meant channelling the struggles into the party-form (the MAS) and led eventually to the election of Evo Morales as president of Bolivia. This brings significant reforms to the state, but involves a demobilisation and de-radicalisation of the original movement. The original uprising by the people themselves is converted into a movement on behalf of the people, and this leads inevitably to the reproduction of state practices and to accommodations with the interests of capital. In the case of Venezuela, the course of the struggles has been different, but there too there is the coexistence of two movements: the movement of community-based struggle from below and the state-centred struggle from above. Here the struggle has been much more clearly state-dominated from the beginning, but, at least since the attempted coup against Chavez in 2002, it has been clear that the strength of the movement as a whole is very dependent on the strength of the movement from below. The process of transformation is seen as a movement from two sides, above and below, and the leaders speak of the need to overcome the bourgeois state and create a 'communal type of state'.20 The creation and promotion of communal councils is at the core of this movement.21
==Counter Plans== 
===Premption CP <3 tucker=== 
====1NC==== 
**Text: The United States federal government should maintain current troop levels in Iraq and eliminate the pre-emption doctrine for future instances of war.**

**The pre-emption doctrine eliminates equality- only allows for the U.S. to use pre-emption in the case of self defense. Getting rid of it solves the aff.**
**Anghie,** Professor of Law, S.J. Quinney School of Law, University of Utah**, 05**
(Anthony, “THE WAR ON TERROR AND IRAQ IN HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE” [[http://www.ohlj.ca/archive/articles/43_12_anghie.pdf]])

<span class="s1">All sovereign states are equal. [ … ] </span>5 If, then, pre-emption does somehow become an accepted part of international law as a result of the Bush doctrine, then the international order will come to somewhat resemble the system that existed among European states in the late nineteenth century.


====2NC - Overview==== 
**AND- Pre-emption doctrine leads to inevitable wars, means only the counter-plan can solve for the deaths of those excluded from the doctrine.**
**Anghie,** Professor of Law, S.J. Quinney School of Law, University of Utah**, 05**
(Anthony, “THE WAR ON TERROR AND IRAQ IN HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE” [[http://www.ohlj.ca/archive/articles/43_12_anghie.pdf]])

Given the threats that pre-emption presents to the international system—and all the ways in which pre-emption can disadvantage third- world states, which will be the inevitable object of the exercise of the doctrine—it is hardly surprising that the vast majority of third-world states have responded to the threats made by the United States to attack pre-emptively when necessary.


====Solves Better than the aff==== 
**The pre-emption doctrine is a violation of international law and promotes inequality throughout the globe asserting that democratic ideologies are better than the regimes of “tyrannies” in the Middle East.**
**Owens,** Associate Dean of Academics for Electives and Directed Research/ Professor of National Security Studies at the Naval War College, Newport, RI and Editor of Orbis**, 09**
(Mackubin Thomas, Orbis, “The Bush Doctrine: The Foreign Policy of Republican Empire” [[http://www.fpri.org/orbis/5301/owens.bushdoctrine.pdf]])

<span class="s1">The most concise statement of the Bush Doctrine can be observed in George Bush’s Second Inaugural Address: ‘‘it is the policy of the United States to seek and support the growth of democratic movements and institutions in every nation and culture, with the ultimate goal of ending tyranny in our world</span>. [ … ] President Bush argued that in an age of globalization, catastrophic terrorism, and weapons of mass destruction, this distinction had become meaningless. If an attack is imminent, it is now too late to preempt it.


**The doctrine diminishes the rights of third world states- counter-plan solves for future instances of exclusion.**
**Anghie,** Professor of Law, S.J. Quinney School of Law, University of Utah**, 05**
(Anthony, “THE WAR ON TERROR AND IRAQ IN HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE” [[http://www.ohlj.ca/archive/articles/43_12_anghie.pdf]])

<span class="s1">Powerful states have almost invariably attempted to expand the circumstances in which they may use force</span><span class="s2">. [ … ] </span><span class="s1">those who would be excluded from the new right of pre-emption. </span>


====Solves imperialism==== 
**The pre-emption doctrine was created a form of “new imperialism”**
**Anghie,** Professor of Law, S.J. Quinney School of Law, University of Utah**, 05**
(Anthony, “THE WAR ON TERROR AND IRAQ IN HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE” [[http://www.ohlj.ca/archive/articles/43_12_anghie.pdf]])

<span class="s1"> For scholars interested in the relationship between the Third World and international law [ … ] </span><span class="s2">, an international law that has ostensibly repudiated the imperialism of the past, will now resist these attempts to reinstate this new imperial order. </span>


====AT: Aff solve premtion==== 
**The doctrine does not just end with the Iraq war- the US will always try to pursue expansive ambitions elsewhere. A change in foreign policy is critical to the way that America enacts its policies globally- counterplan solves for this.**
**Owens,** Associate Dean of Academics for Electives and Directed Research/ Professor of National Security Studies at the Naval War College, Newport, RI and Editor of Orbis**, 09**
(Mackubin Thomas, Orbis, “The Bush Doctrine: The Foreign Policy of Republican Empire” [[http://www.fpri.org/orbis/5301/owens.bushdoctrine.pdf]])

<span class="s2">There is also the aforementioned ‘‘realist’’ school, which criticizes the tradition that includes the Bush Doctrine</span> [ … ] reflecting ‘‘the accumulated detritus of freedom, the by-products of our frantic pursuit of life, liberty, and happiness.’’47


===ICE CP=== 
Text: The United States Supreme Court should rule that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcements must provide proper medical care and free access to legal defenders to all detainees living in the US on the grounds that current practices violate international law.

Solves International Law
Mary Meg McCarthy, Executive Director Heartland Alliance’s National Immigrant Justice Center, 12-10-09, “NIJC Statement for House Homeland Security Committee Hearing on Immigration Detention Management,” http://www.immigrantjustice.org/resources policy/policydocs/detentionmanagementhearingstatement.html

The New York Times, The Washington Post, Amnesty International, and Human Rights Watch, among other ... should normally be avoided must be prescribed by law.”

Solves Judicial Review and Judicial Independence
Friedman ’05 –J.D., 2005, University of Florida Fredric G. Levin College of Law (Michelle S., “NOTE: THE UNEASY U.S. RELATIONSHIP WITH HUMAN RIGHTS TREATIES: THE CONSTITUTIONAL TREATY SYSTEM AND NONSELF-EXECUTION DECLARATIONS,” 17 Fla. J. Int'l L. 187, Lexis-Nexis)

b. Limitation of Judicial Review By attaching nonself-execution declarations to human rights treaties, ... the U.S. Supreme Court for decision. 412

Counterplan key to solve ICE Effectiveness at countering terror
Chui et al ‘9
(Bess Chui, Lynly Egyes, Peter L. Markowitz, Jaya Vasadani, Immigration Justice Clinic, http://www.cardozo.yu.edu/uploadedFiles/Cardozo/Profiles/immigrationlaw-741/IJC_ICE-Home-Raid-Report%20Updated.pdf, 2009)

The prevalence of constitutional violations occurring ... remedies are also ineffective deterrents to unlawful ICE home raids.

This Solves a Terror Attack
Myers, ‘8
(Julie, Director, USICE, “U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,” January 7th, http://immigration.procon.org/viewsource.asp?ID=003105)
Created in March 2003, Immigration and Customs ... 'layered defense' approach to protecting the nation."

Created in March 2003, Immigration and Customs Enforcement ... approach to protecting the nation.

===Special ops - Reform CP=== 
**The United States federal government should warrant a comprehensive examination of command authority over the Special Operations Forces. The United States federal government should end its limitations on raids against insurgent leadership and access to artillery and air support. The United States should give just compensation for the civilian victims of night raid operations and air strikes. The United States Special Operations Command should requires full disclosure of targeting lists and target criteria on the grounds that the United States has a lasting obligation to address targeted killing.**


Solves better than the aff – only reform isneeded

Feickert, **Specialist in Military Ground Forces at the Congressional Research Service,** 7-16**-10**

(Andrew, “U.S. Special Operations Forces (SOF):
<span class="s1">Background and Issues for Congress” <span class="s2">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RS21048.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span class="s2">Command relationships and rules that limit the conduct of ... </span><span class="s1">might in fact prolong the conflict, resulting in more</span><span class="s2"> civilian and coalition </span><span class="s1">casualties</span><span class="s2"> over time. </span>



**Transparency and civilian compensation needed – only US troops have the capability to do it**
**Rogers,** Civic Field Fellow**, 6-10-**10
<span class="s1">(Chris Rogers**,** </span><span class="s2">CIVIC Field Fellow, “REPORT: Addressing Civilian Harm in Afghanistan”, <span class="s3">[[http://www.civicworldwide.org/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=373&Itemid=222#USSOF]]</span> )</span>

<span class="s3">US Special Operations Forces (SOF) operate throughout Afghanistan ... </span>
<span style="display: inline !important;">**<span class="s1">Afghans harmed by their operations are more likely to be overlooked. </span>**</span>








===Northern Line CP=== 
**CP Text- The United States federal government should redraw the Northern Line Limit south of the current demilitarized zone in accordance to international law. South Korea should not be given a veto, and North Korea should be warned that any future provocations will result in swift, appropriate retaliation.**

The only crises along the DMZ have been because of an unfair Northern Line Limit. Also, redrawing the line is best way to reach a peace treaty and reduce tensions on the peninsula. This solve all of the case
Harrison 2010- the author of “Korean Endgame,” is the director of the Asia program at the Center for International Policy (Selig, 12/12/2010, “Drawing a Line in the Water,” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/13/opinion/13harrison.html)

THE crisis in the Yellow Sea, which was set off by the North Korean shelling of South Korea’s Yeonpyeong Island ... Pyongyang regime, all in the aim of reducing the risk of American involvement in another Korean War.


===Offsets the Navy=== 
**TEXT: The USFG should not reduce its military presence in South Korea. The USFG should avoid a reduction of its military presence in South Korea by offsetting US military presence with a substantial increase in US naval presence in South Korea. Reductions should not include the navy. The USFG should transfer and reallocate all resources and funding from troops to the navy. The budget for the navy should be permitted to carry out these requests. The naval presence in South Korea should be readily positioned for redeployment operations.**


The CP is critical to sustain naval dominance – that solves everything and avoids a great power rival that collapses our naval primacy
O’Brien 5/4/10 – Robert, former United States Representative to the 60th Session of the UN General Assembly, Current Managing Partner of the Los Angeles office of Arent Fox LLP http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-c-o/america-must-immediately_b_563628.html

The United States Navy is of critical importance to the defense of this country and to maintaining ... humanitarian missions that now occupy the time of larger warships better suited for blue water action.

This naval primacy solves all conflicts and avoids extinction
Kagan, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 7 [Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]

The jostling for status and influence among ... disrupt trade flows in a way that is now impossible.


===Shimoji CP=== 
Text:

The United States federal government will inform the government of Japan that the United States federal government will withdraw from the Futenma airbase if the government of Japan allows the United States federal government to establish an air station on Shimoji Island.

1. Conflict over Taiwan is inevitable now—expanded U.S. base presence near Taiwan is key to prevent war.
Robert Maginnis, a Retired Army lieutenant colonel, a national security and foreign affairs analyst for radio and television and a senior strategist with the U.S. Army, 8/6/10 [Winning the New Cold War, http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=38425
Chinese General Ma Xiaotian, the deputy chief of staff ... region and will likely employ an asymmetric capability to advance its hegemonic ambitions.

2. A Shift to Shimoji is Necessary to Deter a China Invasion of Taiwan
Chris Rahman, Research Fellow @ The Center for Maritime Policy – PhD in History & Politics @ Univ. of Wollongong, ‘1 [Defending Taiwan and Why It Matters, https://portal.nwc.navy.mil/press/Naval%20War%20College%20Review/2001/Article%20by%20Rahman%20Autumn%202001.pdf]
Taiwan suffers from small size ... Chinese adventure against Taiwan.”9

Cross-strait war escalates to global nuclear War
Straits Times, 2k. [“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 25, LN]

THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war ... interview given to the Chinese press.

3. Japan will say yes to the CP But Spurn Their Perms—they’ll ok a U.S. base on Shimoji If We Condition on Closure
Zalmay Khalilzad, American Counselor @ CSIS – Former US Ambassador to the UN, Afghanistan, and Iraq, ‘1 [The United States and Asia: Toward a New U.S. Strategy and Force Posture, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR1315/MR1315.ch4.pdf]
Okinawa itself lies only about halfway down ... waters of the Taiwan Strait.


===Denuke CP=== 

Text:
The United States federal government should offer to reduce its military presence from the Republic of Korea if the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s agrees to simultaneously verifiable freeze of its nuclear program.

__Only__ the counterplan can solve – unreciprocated concessions allows North Korea to undermine nuclear negotiations with __indefinite demands__
Horowitz, 05 – doctoral candidate in the Department of Government at Harvard and a predoctoral fellow in national security at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Winter 2004-05, The Washington Quarterly, “Who’s Behind That Curtain? Unveiling Potential Leverage over Pyongyang,” [[http://www.twq.com/05winter/docs/05winter_horowitz.pdf]], JMP)</span>

One goal clearly articulated by the North Korean regime over the last decade <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">... </span>
**__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">orestall resolution of the nuclear issue with indefinite demands.</span>__**

The plan alone crushes U.S. deterrence and causes war and allied prolif
Cronin, et. al, 94 – <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Report Coordinator and Specialist in Asian Affairs in the Foreign Affairs and National Defense Division at the CRS (6/1/1994, Richard P., CRS Report for Congress, CRS94-470F, “North Korea's Nuclear Weapons Program: U.S. Policy Options,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/spp/starwars/crs/94-470f.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, JMP</span>)

While<span class="DebateUnderline"> a U.S. withdrawal based on a credible</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">... </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">program</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> <span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">towards weapons production</span>.</span></span>


Escalates to global nuclear war
Cirincione, 2000 – <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)</span>

The blocks would fall quickest and hardest in Asia ...
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">he first combat use of a nuclear weapon since</span></span><span class="CardsChar"> 19</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">45</span></span><span class="CardsChar">.</span>


===NMS CP=== 
Text – The Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States should issue a national military strategy, and corresponding strategic concept focused on implementation, that full withdrawal from Iraq is necessary to achieve that national security goals of the United States. We’ll clarify.

Solves – NMS is a keystone document that shapes military policy – it integrates consultation between Congress and the DOD, building broad support for the plan
Meinhart 8
(Dr. Richard M., Professor of Defense and Joint Processes at the U.S. Army War College, “National Military Strategies: 1990 to 2007”, National Security Policy and Strategy, Ed. Bartholomees, June, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTR Doc?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

To meet these challenges, the military strategy ... complex and ambiguous global security environment.

NMS can effectively cause military withdrawal --- it shapes operational planning, resource allocation, and future defense planning
Riley 94
(Don T., Lieutenant Colonel – United States Army, “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4-18, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)

Should not the National Military Strategy provide this "strategic pull' ... the military 20 years from now begins today.

===NWFZ CP - Korea=== 
**The United States federal government should declare that the Republic of Korea and Japan are nuclear weapon-free zones. The United States federal government should guarantee that the United States is not targeting North Korea with nuclear weapons. The United States federal government should make it clear to the People’s Republic of China that its military presence in South Korea is not aimed at containing China.**


**CP solves all of case and solves the root cause of troop problems**
<span class="s1">**Hayes, Director at the Nautilus Institute for Security & Sustainability, 10**</span> (Peter, Professor of International Relations at RMIT University at Melbourne, "Should Japan and South Korea declare a nuclear weapon-free zone?", East Asia Forum, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/10/22/should-japan-and-south-korea-declare-a-nuclear-weapon-free-zone/)

<span class="s2">One thing is clear about </span><span class="s3">past attempts to denuclearise North Korea: ... </span><span class="s1">thereby </span><span class="s2">preserving</span><span class="s1"> both </span><span class="s2">its hegemonic role and restoring its geopolitical leadership.</span>

====2NC==== 
**Their 1ac author concedes this is the only way to solve**
**Hamel-Green and Hayes 10** (Michael, Dean and Prof. Faculty of Arts – Victoria U., and Peter, Nautilus Institute, Special Report 100-001, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 2010, [[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]])

<span class="s1">A</span><span class="s2"> Korean </span><span class="s1">Nuclear Weapons Free Zone ... </span>This article assesses the prospects for the creation of a NWFZ in the present international climate.




===Presence Word PIC=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Thus Viveth and I advocate that: </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The United States federal government should withdraw its military occupation forces from Okinawa.</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Military Presence’ is a euphemism that masks the devastation of war- it inures the public to the prospect of military expansion.**</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Patru</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> 2002 (Jackie, Editor for sweetliberty Wrote Persecuting Jews and, “US undergoes rapid military expansion”<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.sweetliberty.org/issues/war/wantwar/military_expansion.htm]]</span>, MT)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> This article appeared in USA TODAY on January 15, 2002.... </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Lot's of American 'tax' dollars being used as bribe money.</span>




==Impacts== 
===No War=== 
====1NC==== 
**Structural and ideological shifts in the international system make great power war impossible**
<span class="s1">**Fettweis 3** </span>Christopher J.: assistant professor of national security affairs at the U.S. Naval War College
[“Revisiting Mackinder and Angell: The Obsolescence of Great Power Geopolitics,” Comparative Strategy, 22, p 109-129]

Mackinder can be forgiven for failing to anticipate the titanic ... <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;"> <span class="s2">By extension, states cannot fight wars if doing so does not occur to them or to their opponent.</span></span>

**EVEN IF nuclear war does occur, it won’t cause extinction**
<span class="s1">**Nyquist 99,** </span>J.R.: WorldNetDaily contributing editor and author of ‘Origins of the Fourth World War’
[“Is Nuclear War Survivable?” http://www.antipas.org/news/world/nuclear_war.html]

I patiently reply to these correspondents that <span class="s3">nuclear war would not be the end of the world ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;"><span class="s1">suffer a disastrous social disorganization.”</span></span>


===OSB Bad=== 
**1. No counter-balancing – no country or group of countries can challenge the US**
<span class="s1">**Kagan 7**</span> – Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Institution, No. 144, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136)

<span class="s2">The anticipated global balancing has for the most part not occurred ... </span><span class="s1">relations with these countries after the departure of Bush.</span>



**6. Statistical analysis of the past five hundred years prove our arguments**
<span class="s1">**Levy and Thompson 10**</span> – *Board of Governors’ Professor at Rutgers University and former president of both the International Studies Association and the Peace Science Society, **Donald A. Rogers Professor of Political Science at Indiana University, former president of the International Studies Association, and Managing Editor of International Studies Quarterly (*Jack S., William R., "Balancing on Land and at Sea", International Security, Vol. 35, No. 1, Summer 2010, July 6th 2010, Galileo, p. 35-36, KONTOPOULOS) PDF**

**Our argument and our empirical findings have important implications for contemporary debates about balancing behavior. ... <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">from what that signals about their intentions.</span>**




4. No scenario- china rise is peaceful
Matthews & Di, 09 – **professor of Defense Economics at the Institute of Defence and Strategic Studies, the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies (RSIS)** AND Research assistant at RSIS (9/30/09, Ron and Wang, Malaysia Insider, “The dragon marks its peaceful rise,” Lexis)

<span class="s3"> TWO events will once again focus the world's attention on the Middle Kingdom. ... </span>
<span style="display: inline !important;"><span class="s1">Therefore, the country's rise should be viewed positively.</span></span>





That's bad -

**A. China war and Japanese nationalims**
<span class="s1">**Kagan, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 7**</span> [Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]

War could erupt between Russia and Georgia, forcing the United States and its European ... <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;"><span class="s1">could be destabilizing. It could tempt Russia to an even more overbearing and potentially forceful approach to unruly nations on its periphery</span></span>




**B. causes U.S.-Russian conflict**
<span class="s1">**Kagan, 08**</span> **-- Adjunct Professor of History at Georgetown University, Senior fellow at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, "End of Dreams, Return of History", Hoover Institution, 2008, July 27th 2010, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136, KONTOPOULOS)**
<span class="s2">**In Europe, too, the departure of the U**</span><span class="s3">nited </span><span class="s2">**S**</span><span class="s4">tates from the scene — even ... </span><span class="s1">**which could in turn draw the United States back in under unfavorable circumstances.**</span>


Extinction

Bostrom, 02 -Ph.D. and Professor at Oxford University (Nick, March, www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html)

A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR<span class="s3">**.**</span><span class="s4"> ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;"><span class="s1">is not an existential risk, since it</span><span class="s2"> would not destroy </span><span class="s3">or</span> <span class="s1">thwart</span> <span class="s2">humankind’s potential permanently</span><span class="s5">**.**</span></span>

===Warming - Ice Age=== 
**Continuing CO2 emissions check the onset of Ice Age – we’re already overdue**
<span class="s1">**NCPA**</span>, National Center for Policy Analysis, “Global Warming May Be Beneficial”, Business Wire, 2-31-<span class="s1">**1991**</span>
<span class="s2">Global warming may be needed</span><span class="s3"> in order </span><span class="s2">to prevent the next ice age, which is **long overdue** on nature's timetable ... </span>
<span style="display: inline !important;">**''If dinosaurs were alive today, they would die of starvation because of lack of food.''**</span>






Extinction

<span class="s2">**Forbes, 10** </span><span class="s1">(Viv Forbes – Chairman of The Carbon Sense Coalition, 4 February 2010, “New tax inevitable in the Libs' alternative ETS,” The Advertiser, Australia, pg. 20, lexis, CM)</span>

<span class="s1">There is no evidence that carbon dioxide drives temperature changes on Earth .. </span><span style="font-size: 12px;"><span class="s1"> Many foolish local politicians have thus become foreign agents</span></span>

<span style="display: inline !important;">**Increased fossil fuel use is key to stave off the Ice Age**</span>



**Science Daily 07** Quotes Dr. Toby Tyrrell, a Reader in the University of Southampton’s School of Ocean and Earth Science
<span class="s1">[Next Ice Age Delayed By Rising Carbon Dioxide Levels (<span class="s2">[[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2007/08/070829193436.htm]]</span>)]</span>

<span class="s2">Future ice ages may be delayed by up to half a million years by our burning of fossil fuels</span><span class="s3">. ... </span>
<span style="display: inline !important;">**<span class="s1">fossil fuels could lead to avoidance of the next five ice ages.</span>**</span>







**The impact outweighs warming – the world would end**
**Jaworowski 04** Chairman of the Scientific Council of the Central Laboratory for Radiological Protection in Warsaw, Former Chair of the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation
[Dr. Zbigniew, 21ST CENTURY SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, Winter]

It is difficult to predict the advent of a new Ice Age-the time when continental glaciers will start to cover ... <span style="font-size: 10px;"><span class="s1">changing into "snowball Earth," covered in white from Pole to Pole, with an average temperature of minus 40°C.</span></span>



**More evidence – Arctic ice cover is expanding – proves cooling now**
**Glover 2-23** British Writer specializing in political and energy issues, European Associate Editor at Energy Tribune, has been published widely on climate issues
[Peter C., 2009, American Thinker, Media Credibility, Not Ice Caps, In Meltdown (<span class="s1">[[http://www.americanthinker.com/2009/02/media_credibility_not_ice_caps_1.html]]</span>)]

<span class="s2">Eco-warriors and media hype aside, </span><span class="s3">the fact is, as we head into 2009, that the world's ice mass has been expanding not contracting ... </span><span class="s1">journalistic soul for a mess of warm-mongering alarmist pottage. </span>


===Warming - C02 Fertilization=== 

**Increased CO2 is key to crop fertilization that sustains biodiversity and prevents famine**
**Idso & Idso 07** Research Physicist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Agricultural Research Service, Vice President of the Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change with a PhD in Botany, former Director of Environmental Science at Peabody Energy in St. Louis, Missouri and is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, American Geophysical Union, American Meteorological Society, Arizona-Nevada Academy of Sciences, Association of American Geographers, Ecological Society of America, and The Honor Society of Phi Kappa Phi
[Sherwood & Craig, Carbon Dioxide and Global Change: Separating Scientific Fact from Personal Opinion, <span class="s1">The Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change</span> (<span class="s2">[[http://co2science.org/education/reports/hansen/HansenTestimonyCritique.pdf]]</span>) p. 17-19]

<span class="s1">How much land can ten billion people spare for nature?</span> ... <span class="s1">resources from nature and decimating the biosphere in the process</span><span class="s2">.</span>












**Failure to meet grain demand will cause food price volatility – two billion will die**

**Roberts 06** Project Coordinator of the Toronto Food Policy Council

[Wayne, Grain Drain: Get Ready for Peak Grain, <span class="s1">Energy Bulletin</span>, 10-31 (<span class="s2">[[http://www.energybulletin.net/node/21815]]</span>)]



Unless this year’s harvest is unexpectedly different from six out of the last seven years, <span class="s1">the world’s</span> ... This is the stuff of food riots, which were also commonplace during the 1970s<span class="s1">.</span>

**Famine sparks World War 3**
**Calvin 98** Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at the University of Washington
[William H., January, The Great Climate Flip-Flop, The Atlantic Monthly, Ebsco Host]

The population-crash scenario is surely the most appalling. <span class="s1">Plummeting crop yields would cause ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10px;">It has excellent soils, and largely grows its own food. It could no longer do so if it lost the extra warming from the North Atlantic.</span>





**These conflicts go nuclear** **Klare 06** Professor of Peace and World Security Studies at Hampshire College <span class="s1">[Michael, The Coming Resource Wars, 3-11 (<span class="s2">[[http://www.waterconserve.org/shared/reader/welcome.aspx?linkid=53710&keybold=water%20land%20conflict]]</span>)]</span>
"<span class="s3">As famine</span>, disease, and weather-related disasters <span class="s3">strike</span> ... <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10px;"><span class="s1">no society, however affluent, will escape involvement in these forms of conflict</span><span class="s2">.</span></span>



**Biodiversity loss causes extinction**
**Diner 94** Judge Advocate General’s Corps of US Army
[David N., Military Law Review, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, Lexis Nexis]

No species has ever dominated its fellow species as man has. ... <span class="s1">[hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss</span><span class="s2">. </span>


====2NC - C02 Fert==== 
=====Overview===== 
**And, our scenario for war is more probable**
**Sachs 08** Director of the Earth Institute and Professor of Sustainable Development, Health Policy and Management at Columbia University, Special Advisor to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, Former Director of the UN Millennium Project and Special Advisor to UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan on the Millennium Development Goals
[Jeffrey D., A User’s Guide to the Century, National Interest, 7-2 (<span class="s1">[[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=18682]]</span>)]

<span class="s2">THE NEW world order is</span> therefore <span class="s2">crisis prone.</span> ... and to master the scientific and technological knowledge needed to find solutions.


**Higher CO2 concentrations alleviate current world hunger**
**Climate & Environment Weekly 06**
<span class="s1">[1-12, Agriculture (Our Greatest Challenge (<span class="s2">[[http://ff.org/centers/csspp/library/co2weekly/20060112/20060112_02.html]]</span>**)]**</span>

Also writing about the need to increase global food production near the close of the 20th century were the Rockefeller Foundation's Conway and Toenniessen ... we may come much closer to achieving our "noble goal" than we have ever come in the past.


**Hunger must always be rejected – it outweighs extinction**
**Watson 77** Professor of Philosophy at Washington University
[WORLD HUNGER AND MORAL OBLIGATION (p. 118-119)[

<span class="s1">One may even have to sacrifice one’s life</span> ... <span class="s1">it is pathetic to profess morality if one quits when the going gets rough.</span>


=====AT: Warming===== 





**Crop failures outweigh any possible impact of warming** **Idso & Idso 01** President of The CO2 Magazine and Climatologist, and Vice President of The CO2 Magazine and Climatologist [Dr. Craig & Dr. Keith, Two Crises of Unbelievable Magnitude: Can We Prevent One Without Exacerbating the Other? (<span class="s1">[[http://co2science.org//articles/V4/N24/EDIT.php]]</span>)]
<span class="s2">Two potentially devastating environmental crises loom ominously on the horizon ... </span><span style="color: #000000;">problem that arrived at essentially the same conclusion (Idso and Idso, 2000).</span>





**CO2 increases enable more soil carbon storage despite higher temperatures – inducing negative feedback**
**Idso & Idso 04** Research Physicist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Agricultural Research Service, Vice President of the Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change with a PhD in Botany, former Director of Environmental Science at Peabody Energy in St. Louis, Missouri and is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, American Geophysical Union, American Meteorological Society, Arizona-Nevada Academy of Sciences, Association of American Geographers, Ecological Society of America, and The Honor Society of Phi Kappa Phi
[http://co2science.org/articles/V4/N2/COM.php]

The amount of carbon stored above and beneath a unit area of land is basically a function of two biochemical processes, photosynthesis and respiration ... Clearly, the biosphere is well adapted to responding to environmental challenges; and this one is no exception. When the going gets hot, the earth knows how to keep its cool.


**CO2 allows plants to act as sinks – triggering a negative feedback loop**
**Idso et al 03** Research Physicist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Agricultural Research Service, Vice President of the Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change with a PhD in Botany, former Director of Environmental Science at Peabody Energy in St. Louis, Missouri and is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, American Geophysical Union, American Meteorological Society, Arizona-Nevada Academy of Sciences, Association of American Geographers, Ecological Society of America, and The Honor Society of Phi Kappa Phi
[10-15, C02 Science Magazine, Vol. 6, No. 42, <span class="s1">The Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change]</span>

In light of these observations, plus the fact that Saxe //et al//. ... the rate of rise of the air's CO2 content, which would be assumed by many to be reducing <span class="s1">**the rate** of global warming</span>.


=====AT: Not effective===== 
**2. CO2 increases grain production – empirically proven**
**Avery & Burnett 05** Senior Fellow for the Hudson Institute in Washington D.C., Director for the Center for Global Food Issues and Senior Fellow for the National Center for Policy Analysis specializing in Environmental Policy
[Dennis and H. Sterling, Global Warming: Famine — or Feast? 5-19, <span class="s1">The National Center for Policy Analysis</span> (<span class="s2">[[http://www.ncpa.org/pub/ba/ba517]]</span>**)]**

The available evidence undermines Brown’s claims. Indeed,<span class="s1"> a warmer planet ... these factors have helped the world’s grain production soar from 700 million to more than 2 billion tons </span>last year.

==Specific Debates== 

===Calhoun=== 

====vs. Milton TV (okinawa)==== 
1NC- Okinawa - Politcs, Allience, Enviro
Offsets CP
START
Cap K
Case

2NC -
K + Case

1NR
START

2NR
START + Case

====vs. Westminster LP (south Korea)==== 
1NC - South Korea - China Rise good, Noko War
Offsets CP
Russia Sphere DA
Denuke Conditions CP
ROK allience DA
Case - Heg DA on the China Rise good

2NC
Offsets CP, Case

1NR
Russia Sphere DA

2NR
Russia Sphere DA, Case

====vs. Alpharetta BP (COIN)==== 
1NC - Afghan COIN: terror, ABLz advantage
T Combat troops
Bilat CP
Security K
Russia Sphere DA
Case

2NC
Russia Sphere, Case, T

1NR
Security K

(1AR = 5 minutes of condo bad)

2NR
Condo Good

===Michigan=== 
====vs. New Trier KoMa (COIN)==== 
COIN - heg, instability, Drug Trade
1NC-
BIlat
Russia Sphere
START
Case

2NC
START
Case

1NR
Bilat
Russia Sphere

2NR
START
Case

====vs. Johns Creek FK (COIN)==== 
Afghanistan - Heg, Stability
1NC -
START
Russia Sphere
Security K
Withdrawal DA
Case

2NC-
START
Withdrawal DA
Case

1NR
Russia Sphere
Case

2NR
Russia DA
WIthdrawal
Case
====vs. St. Ignatious ?? (Futenma)==== 
Futenma - Kan politics, Environment, Allience
1NC-
T substantial = 25%
Shimoji CP
Japanese Re-arm
START
Case

2NC-
Topicality
Re- arm
Case

1NR
Shimoji CP

2NR
Topicality

====vs. Layne Tech JR ( Just war)==== 
Afghanistan - Security / Just war

1NC-
Russia Sphere
Framework
Security Good
Case

2NC
Framework
Security good
Case

1NR
Russia sphere

2NR
Security Good
Case
Russia Sphere

===Ohio Valley=== 
====vs. Alpharetta DR (COIN)==== 
Afghanistan - Negotiations, Heg
1NC
T -Non Combat
START
Russia Sphere
Fem DA
Case

2NC
START
Case

1NR
Russia Sphere

2NR
START
Russia DA
Case

====vs. Cathedral Prep HW (Iraq)==== 
Iraq full w/d - Heg, Democracy, Government Stability

1NC
NMS CP
CMR DA
T - Reduce =/= keep the squo
START
Case - Democracy bad / withdrawal DA

2NC
CMR
START
Heg

1NR
Democracy Bad
Withdrawal DA

2NR
START
Case + turns

===Lexington=== 
====vs. GDS HS (Okinawa - biopower)==== 
Okinawa biopower / enviro

1NC-
Heg Good K
Framework
Politics- EPA reg
Consult NATO
Case - Imapact turn

2NC -
Heg good K
case

1NR -
Politics

2NR - Politics

====vs. NFA MM (Okinawa Rape )==== 
Okinawa - Rape / Cuomo

1NC
Presence word PIC
Heg Good K
Politics - EPA regulations
T - subsets
Framework
Case - Impact turn Cuomo

Block
Heg good K
Case
Politics

2NR -
Politics

====vs. NFA CS ( Japan marines)==== 
Okinawa Marines - Airpower, Taiwan War, China Rise, Warming, Prolif

1NC
Security
Politics - SKFTA
Rearm
Case - Impact turn Warming, Prolif, and defence

Block
Warming good, Prolif good, Security, Tix

2NR
Security

====vs. Bronx ?? (COIN)==== 
Afghanistan - heg, Pakistan

1NC
Security
Politics - SKFTA
Paki advantage CP (keep troops, winning war solvency)
Russian Relations DA

Block
Russian relations
Case
SKFTA

2NR
Russia, Case

===Barkley Forum=== 

====vs. Stratford JS (Bagram)==== 
Bagram

1NC-
T substantial = 25%
T subset
ICE CP
Politics
Security
Case

Block
TSubstantial, Subsets, Politics, Case

2NR
T - Substantial

====vs. Westminster MW (COIN)==== 
Afghanistan COIN - Diplomacy, Heg

1NC
Russia Sphere
Security K
Offsets
Case

Block
Security K, Case, Russia

2NR
Security K

====vs. Pace Academy ES (South Korea)==== 
South Korea - OSB, Warming

1NC
Alliance DA
Investors DA
Security K
Regionalism Advantage CP
Case - Warming good, OSB Bad / Heg good

Block
Warming Good, OSB Bad, Alliance, Investors DA

2NR
Case, Alliance, Investors

===JV State=== 
====vs. Northview KM ( Iraq - Kritikal )==== 
Iraq- Premption / Security

1NC
Presence Word PIC
Heg good K
Premption CP - ends the doctrine worldwide
Russia Sphere DA
Case - Security Good, Realism

2NC
Premption CP, Russia, Case

2NR
Same as block - just 8 minutes less

====vs. Alpharetta DT (COIN)==== 
Afghanistan - Iran prolif, Terrorism, Regional wars, Central asia

1NC
T- Reduce = Reduce
Security
SKFTA
Withdrawal DA - Russian realtions / Taliban t/o
Case- Iran prolif good

BLock
T, SKFTA, Withdrawal, Case

2NR
SKFTA, Withdrawal, Case

====vs. Pace EA (South Korea)==== 
South Korea - Warming, OSB

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Alliance DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Investors DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Security K </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Regionalism Advantage CP</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Case - Warming good (iceage, c02) , OSB Bad / Heg good</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Block</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Warming Good, OSB Bad, Alliance, Investors DA</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Case, Alliance DA</span>


===<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Vestavia Hills</span>=== 
====vs. Westminster SH (South Korea)==== 
South Korea- Korean war, Warming, China

1NC
Alliance
Investors
Security
REDRAW THE LINE CP
Case - Warming good

Block
CP, Kritik, Alliance DA, Case

2NR
Kritik

====vs. USN ?? (Spec ops)==== 
Special operations - Civilian casualites, Russa china alliance

1NC
T- Substantial
OSPEC
Reform CP
SKFTA
Security
Case - Withdrawal DA

Block
T, CP, SKFTA, Case

2NR
SKFTA, Case

====vs. USN ZL (Spec ops)==== 
Special ops- Human rights, Democracy, Terrorism, Russia China Alliance

1NC
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">T- Substantial</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">OSPEC</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Reform CP</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">SKFTA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Security</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Case - Withdrawal DA</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Block</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kritik, SKFTA, Case</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">SKFTA, Case</span>

===UGA=== 
====vs. Alpharetta L? (Heroism)==== 
Aff - heroism / Afghani women?

1NC
Framework
Heg Good K
SKFTA Poltiics
Premption CP
Case - Declaring Victory Turn, Cap Turn, Realism, Util

2NC
Case
Heg good K

1NR
Poltiics

2NR
heg good K
Case

====vs. Pace ES (South Korea)==== 
1NC
Alliied Prolif DA
Security K
SKFTA politics
T - Phased withdrawal
Case - OSB bad, Warming good

2NC
Impact turns on case
SEcurity

1NR
Politics

2NR
Politics, Case


====vs. Milton CT (Okinawa)==== 
Aff- Okinawa - Alliance, imperialism

1NC
heg good K
SKFTA
Rearm DA
Courts CP
Case - Ur case is a double turn

2NC
Heg good K
Case

1NR
SKFTA

2NR
Heg good K, Case

===GFCA State=== 
====Grady BC (East Asia)==== 
Aff - OSB, Warming
1NC
Vagueness
Security
Disaster Relief DA
Case- Warming Good, No war

Block
No war, Disaster Relief DA

2NR
No war, Disaster Relief DA

====Westminster MP (South Korea)==== 
Aff - Korean war, China Regionalism
1NC
Vagueness
Bleiker K
SKFTA - Disease
NWFZ CP
Case- warming good, prolif DA & china containment DA on case, No war

Block
Case, CP, politix

2NR
Case, CP

====Milton AV (Okinawa)==== 
Aff - Alliance, Kan politics, Biopower

1NC
Vaguness
Security
SKFTA
Case- No war, Okinawa Identity turns biopwer

Block
Case (okinawa K & No war), Politics

2NR
Case, politics

===W00dwardz=== 
====Round 2 - Niles West AK (COIN)==== 
Aff - terror, Iran prolif, Japanese relations, Central asia war

1NC -
T reduce,
T combat,
Withdrawal DA,
UQ CP (Leave troops)
Security K
Case- Iran prolif good

2NC
T Reduce, Withdrwal DA, Case, CP

1NR
Kritik - Chrenus, Biopower, Kappeler read in block

2NR
T- reduce

====Round 3 - River Hill HL (Korea - Racism)==== 
Aff - Korean war, Korean racism

1NC
Heg Good DA
SKFTA - Econ
Investors DA
Korean Colfict CP - (NWFZ, redraw line)

2NC
Heg good DA
CP
Case

1NR
Politics

2NR
Heg DA
CP
Case

====Round 6 - Bronx BK (COIN)==== 
Aff - Heg, Pakistan

1NC
T Reduce,
T Combat,
Withdrawal DA
Security K
Case - Winning war

2NC
Case, Withdrwal DA, Kritik

1NR
T - Non combat

2NR
T- noncombat

====Octas - National Cathedral (iraq kritikal)==== 
Aff - Iraq - colonialism & racism

1NC
F/W
State PIK (D&G)
Case - impact framing /victory turn

2NC
State PIK

1NR
Case

2NR
State PIK

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]