[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Environment AC**</span>=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Res refers only to nuclear weapons in existence today</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1. common definition</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2. greater depth b/c of more literature</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">We should adopt a **life-centered ethic** to evaluate our actions; we should endeavor to maintain the most life possible.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">W/o life, no morality, so pre-req to eval "ought" claims.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">We have obligations to human and non-human members of global community b/c:</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1. <span style="line-height: 22px;">In order for human beings to be the only beings endowed with moral status, then there must be some nontrivial property P that all humans and only humans possess, but any P that humans have is a property that some humans lack and a property that most animals have as well.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">2. Rationality/autonomy/morality are not P b/c some humans not have (babies, etc)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">3. We give moral rights to beings that are a subject-of-a-life.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Tom Regan Professor Emeritus NC-State Department of Philosophy The Case for Animal Rights 1983 p. 24﻿3</span>
"Beliefs and desires; ... anyone else's interests."

**The affirmative's thesis is that the creation, maintenance, and use of nuclear weapons are fundamentally destructive to human and non-human life.**

**A. The creation of nuclear weapons is fundamentally destructive to human and non-human life.**

The waste remaining after the extraction of uranium, called mill tailings, is disastrous for the environment.

<span style="line-height: 17pt;">Arjun Makhijani and Scott Saleska 1 “The Production of Nuclear Weapons and Environmental Hazards” Nuclear Wastelands: A Global Guide to Nuclear Weapons Production and its Health and Environmental Effects MIT Press 2000</span>
<span style="line-height: 17.0pt;">"Mill tailings account ... only 1000 years."</span>


Uranium conversion is a major occupational and health hazard.
<span style="line-height: 22px;">Arjun Makhijani and Scott Saleska 2</span>
<span style="line-height: 22px;">"The handling of ... as chemical wastes."</span>

EPA "Radtown" April 2006
"Uranium mining releases ... radiation health hazards."

**B. The maintenance of nuclear weapons presents continuing harm to the environment that lasts for generations.**

<span style="line-height: 17pt;">Arjun Makhijani “A Readiness to Harm” Nuclear Wastelands: A Global Guide to Nuclear Weapons Production and its Health and Environmental Effects MIT Press 2000 p. 9</span>
<span style="line-height: 17pt;">"Since World War ... of such wastes."</span>

<span style="line-height: 17pt;">These harms are empirically verified.</span>

<span style="line-height: 17pt;">Howard Hu and Arjun Makhijani “The Global Picture: Summary and Recommendations” Nuclear Wastelands: A Global Guide to Nuclear Weapons Production and its Health and Environmental Effects MIT Press 2000</span>
<span style="line-height: 17pt;">"Highly radioactive liquid ... in other countries."</span>

**<span style="line-height: 17pt;">C. A small-scale nuclear war would block the sun with light absorbing black soot and kill 1 billion people.</span>**

<span style="line-height: 17pt;">Owen B. Toon, Alan Robock and Richard Turco “Environmental Consequences of Nuclear War.” //Physics Today// December 2008</span>
<span style="line-height: 17pt;">"A relatively modest ... lasting climate response."</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Alan Robock and Owen Toon “Local Nuclear War, Global Suffering.” //Scientific American// January 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">"Less sunlight and ... regional nuclear powers."</span>








===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 18px; line-height: 12px;">Nukespeak AC</span>=== 
**V: Morality**

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Albert Bandura et al. Department of Psychology, Stanford University; Claudio Barbaranelli, Gian Vittorio Caprara, and Concetta Pastorelli, University of Rome, "La Sapienza," Rome, Italy. //Journal of Personality and Social Psychology// "Mechanisms of Moral Disengagement in the Exercise of Moral Agency" 1996</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"A theory of ... and devaluating them."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Guilt is fundamental to the activation of moral standards.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">William Neblett, Occidental College, //The Journal of Philosophy// "The Ethics of Guilt" 1974</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Where, and to ... is self-reflexive."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">James R. Detert et al., Johnson Graduate School of Management, Cornell University; Linda Klebe Trevino, Smeal College of Business, The Pennsylvania State University; Vicki L. Sweitzer, Economics and Management Department, Albion College. //Journal of Applied Psychology// "Moral Disengagement in Ethical Decision Making: A Study of Antecedents and Outcomes" 2008</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Through moral disengagement ... outcomes on themselves."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**C: Minimizing Moral Disengagement**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1. examines implications of way people evaluate moral problems in real world</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2. moral disengagement was found in Detert et al. (previously cited) to be statistically significant in contributing to unethical actions</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">3. if an action can only be taken when you're disengaged from morals, it's clearly an immoral action</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**I contend that nuclear weapons cause moral disengagement.**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**A. Experts use specific rhetoric to mask the reality of what is being discussed.**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Richard Maguire, officer in RAF, 2PhD's, one from South Hampton and one from Warwick and MA, The use of weapons: Mass killing and the United Kingdom government's nuclear weapons program, Routlege, 2007</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"In public, the ... were suitably controlled."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This language exists precisely to hide the reality of the horror of what is being discussed.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Jonathan Granoff, UN Representative of Lawyers Alliance for World Security, Chair, American Bar Association Committee on Arms Control and Disarmament, CEO of Global Security Institute, //Brigham Young University Law Review//, "Nuclear Weapons, Ethics, Morals, and Law" 2000</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The existence of ... of mankind itself."</span>

Edward Schiappa, Professor of Communication University of Minnesota "The Rhetoric of Nukespeak" Communication Monographs 56 September 1989
"Conceived in the ... of nuclear weapons."

**B. Nukespeak is viewed as the only acceptable way of discussing nuclear weapons.**

Schiappa 2
"Early in her ... moral concerns obsolete."

**C. States ignore and obfuscate the harms of nuclear weapons.**

Masahide Kato, Professor of Political Science University of Hawaii "Nuclear Globalism: Traversing Rockets, Satellites, and Nuclear War via the Strategic Gaze," Alternatives: Global, Local, Political 1993
"The only instances ... and Indigenous Nations."

Dr. Takada Jun, Professor of Physics Sappora University, summarized in Kato
"46 nuclear tests ... as lab rats."








==Negative== 

===Stats Deterrence NC=== 
**I contend that nuclear weapons deter all forms of war.**

Study's dataset
Victor Asal and Kyle Beardsley; Department of Political Science, State University of New York, Albany, VAsal@email.albany.edu; Department of Political Science, Emory University
"To study the ... of military hostilities."

Study controls for: # of conflicts, nature of conflicts, duration of conflicts, nuclear status.
Dependent variable: likelihood of violence.
Independent variable: number of nuclear actors.
4 models: new nuclear actors, superpowers, nuclear dyads, binary violence indication.

Independent variables and data estimation
Asal + Beardsley 2
"As Model 1 ... stated in H1."
"Given the ordinal ... at their mode)."

Conclusion
Asal + Beardsley 3
"The presence of ... level of violence."






===Artifacts NC=== 
**Observation 1**
Res question concerns the possession of an item, not the use and/or intent to use. Use requires possession, but possession does not require use. The judge does not have jurisdiction to vote on arguments that concern use/intent. Reject AC for being extratopical.

**Observation 2**
Negation = not x.
Merrie Bergmann, Smith College, The Logic Book
"One might be ... of the former."

Thus, the negative is defending: It is not the case that states ought not possess nuclear weapons.

**My thesis and sole contention is that morally prohibiting nuclear weapons denies human subjectivity.**

A nuclear weapon is a type of technological device known as an artifact (an object made by a human being); artifacts are value-neutral.
Per Sundstrom, "Interpreting the notion that technology is value-netural" //Medicine, Health Care and Philosophy// Vol 1 41-45 1998
"That techniques and ... contemplate using them."

Sundstrom 2
"Focusing value neutrality ... a //residual// neutrality."

Analysis

<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;">Artifacts only acquire value upon their use by humans. Simple possession of an artifact imparts no value to that artifact either positive or negative, nor does the artifact have any intrinsic value. It is absurd to imbue artifacts with value independent of humans because artifacts cannot create their own value and have no subjectivity. This value-neutral viewpoint toward technology is the only one that allows for human agency. </span>


Sundstrom 3
"The value neutral ... in its possibility."

Analysis
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12.0pt; line-height: 115%; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin;">It is only when our decisions have effects that we willed ourselves that we can be moral actors; if artifacts posses value prior to human action, then questions of morality are unduly influenced by non-moral agents. Thus negating is the only avenue for maintaining moral agency.</span>




=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]