[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Cite requests email [[mailto:alexisjkostun@gmail.com|alexisjkostun@gmail.com]]== 
==Pflugerville 1AC== 

**Alliance collapse is inevitable in the status quo—Futenma only highlighted the issue of broader opposition to US bases in Japan**
**Terashima**
**Jitsuro**,chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", **8/20/**
10 Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve]]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">But history is … of the bases. </span>
**Rising US China relations are straining the alliance—restructuring our approach to Japan is key to avert collapse**
**Terashima**
**Jitsuro**, chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", **8/20/**
10 Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve]]
The US-China … be addressed directly

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should reduce nearly all of its military presence from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan**.

**__Contention 2 is the Alliance__**

**Scenario one is East Asian Stability**
**Removal of bases shifts focus toward economic and security cooperation—this is the ONLY scenario for a sustainable alliance that preserves East Asian stability**
Terashima **Jitsuro**, chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", **8/20/**
10 Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve]]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">What Should Be … ...deserving of trust</span>
**Collapse of the alliance destabilizes East Asia—Japan will challenge US power and uncertainty over commitment creates a regional power vacuum**
Evelyn **Goh**, Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,”**2008** 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database)
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">The centrality of … be much worse. </span>
**That instability causes wars and goes nuclear—Japanese alliance key to check conflict**
Richard L. **Armitage** Kurt M.Campbell, and Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye **et al**., fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard, contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; **2k** “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, 
<span style="color: black; display: block;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm]]</span>
Asia, in the throes… ...global security strategy

**Scenario two is Japanese Rearmament**

**Maintaining the alliance prevents Japanese rearmament**
John **Ikenberry**. professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice at Georgetown, **2008** (Beyond Bilateralism: US-Japan Relations in the New Asia-Pacific, Ed. Krauss and Pempel)
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">The alliance system—... … the United States. </span>
**Even perception Japan is reconsidering weaponization is enough to set off an arms race in North Asia.**
Christopher W **Hughes**, PhD University of Sheffield, Professor at University of Warwick, January **2007**, Asia Policy Number 3 75-104, “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan”[[http://docs.google.com/gview?a=v&q=cache:blE5TXfgjFIJ:www| http://docs.google.com/gview?a=v&q=cache:blE5TXfgjFIJ:www]].nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP3/AP3Hughes.pdf+japanese+nuclearization+and+taiwan&hl=en&gl=us
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">In turn, it … its nuclear program. </span>
**East Asian arms race will cause extinction.**
Toshimaru **Ogura and** Ingyu **Oh** professors of economics, April, “Nuclear clouds over the Korean peninsula and Japan,” 19**97**
Accessed July 10, 2008 via Lexis-Nexis (Monthly Review)
North Korea, South Korea, … a global conflagration.


**Scenario 3 is Japanese politics**

**Kan’s agenda is on the brink –Winning the Okinawa issue restores Kan’s credibility—he’ll be spun as responsive to citizen demands and strong on foreign relations**
**Kyodo News 7/11**/2010,“Stability, unity key to Kan’s success: expert,” [[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100611f2.html]]
Ensuring stability and unity, … forward," she said. 

**Tax reform is unpopular but increased credibility on other issues lets Kan force it through**
Justin **McCurry**, GlobalPost correspondent for Japan, **7/17**/2010, GlobalPost, [[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/japan/100715/global-economy-japan?page=0,1]]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">"It is possible to … by its acronym. </span>

**Tax reform’s key to solve deflation and spur growth**
**WSJ 7/18**, 20**10**,Tomoyuki Tachikawa, Dow Jones Newswires, “Correct: Japan Govt Aims For Growth Through Investments, Tax Cuts” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20100618-703746.html?mod=WSJ_latestheadlines]]
Prime Minister Naoto …economy cannot revive." 


**3 years until the debt crisis hits—failure to resolve stagnation before that ensures economic collapse**
**Huffington Post,** Devin Stewart, Program Director and Senior Fellow, Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs (blog), 
**7/15**/10, " Will a Rudderless Japan Drift into Crisis? ," [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/devin-stewart/will-a-rudderless-japan-d_b_648321.html]]
"Three to four … employment in the future."


**Economic collapse means nuclear war**
Walter Russell **Mead**, Senior Fellow in US Foreign Policy Studies @ Council on Foreign Relations, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, 2-4-**09**, [[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=1]]
If financial crises… ...to be born? 


**Scenario 4 is Guam redeployment**

**Current relocation plan shifts Okinawan troops to Guam—additional troops cuts would be similarly redeployed**
**Kan and Niksch 10** (Shirley, Larry, specialist in Asian security affairs, spec. in Asian affairs, Congressional Research Service, Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments, p.1)pl
In May 2006… ...and San Diego.

**Guam redeployment key to check North Korea—troops in South Korea are insufficient and neutralize effective threats of preemptive strike**
**Erickson and Mikolay in 5** (Andrew, Justin, assist. Prof. of Strategic Studies at U.S. Naval War college, Prof. at USNA, Comparative Strategy, Anchoring America’s Asian Assets: Why Washington Must Strengthen Guam, p. 160-162)pl
U.S. military force… ...these<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> promising initiatives. </span>


**Scenario five is the environment**

**First, strengthening U.S.-Japan alliance is key energy innovation and environmental regulations**
**Kent E.**
**Calde**r, Director of Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies at SAIS/Johns Hopkins University, 02/01/20**10**
“U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.‐JAPAN COOPERATION”, [[http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf]]
Active U.S.‐Japan cooperation... ...in both countries.


**U.S.-Japan cooperation is key to set a precedent for clean energy in Asia—solves climate change**
Nirav **Patel**, research associate specializing in Asian Affairs at the Center for a New American Security December **7/20**/07
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">World Politics Review, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance Should Evolve to Encompass Environmental Cooperation,” [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/1420/the-u-s-japan-alliance-should-evolve-to-encompass-environmental-cooperation]],”) </span>
Historically, U.S.-Japan relations…<span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;"> ...stability and security.</span>

**And, U.S. leadership on climate changes gets other countries on board**
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">Paul</span> **Harris**, Professor of Political Science @ Lingnan University, 20**09** Energy Policy, Vol. 37, Iss. 3, March)
For those interested… ...its people to do


**And, global warming leads to extinction**
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">Oliver</span> **Tickell**, environmental researcher, 20**08**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">,</span> 8/11, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]) 
We need to get… ...similar hothouse Earth.

**And, there’s no question about warming—it’s real and anthropogenic**
Stefan **Rahmstorf**, Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, 
20**08** (Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49)
It is time to turn to … we need to deal. 


__**Contention 3 is Solvency**__

**Current US policy has made the nuclear umbrella and military deployment obsolete—bases in Japan no longer hold any deterrence value**
Terashima **Jitsuro**, chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", **8/20/**10 Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve]]
At the time of... ...will loom important.


**Japanese leaders are shifting towards an increasingly anti US stance—drawdown of forces is key to appease them and maintain the security alliance**
Kenneth B. **Pyle**, Professor of History and Asian Studies at the University of Washington, “Troubled Alliance”, Compilation: A New Stage for the U.S. –Japan Alliance?, Asia Policy, Issue 10 , July 20**10**, [[http://asiapolicy.nbr.org/|http://asiapolicy.nbr.org]]
Japan and the United States... ...has shaped Japanese behavior

**Removing troops restores the alliance and shifts to more sustainable cooperation on other security issues**
Doug **Bandow**, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, Vice President of Policy for Citizen Outreach, Huffington Post, Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance, Senior Fellow in International Religious Persecution at the Institute on Religion and Public Policy, served as a Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan, nationally syndicated columnist with Copley News Service, and editor of the monthly political magazine Inquiry, 3/25/20**10**, “Okinawa and the Problem of Empire,” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/okinawa-and-the-problems_b_512610.html]]
The Japanese government …inaction in Okinawa.

==Greenhill 1AC== 
== == 

**Plan: The United States federal government should reduce nearly all of its military presence from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.**

**Contention 1 is Alliance: Alliance collapse inevitable— first— grass roots movements and politics**
Michael **Auslin**, Director of Japan Studies at American Enterprise Institute, **6/16**/10, " The Real Futenma Fallout ", http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704324304575307471399789704.html?mod=WSJ_Opinion_LEFTTopBucket
A great sigh of relief… ...national security establishment. 

**Futenma only highlighted the issue of broader opposition to US bases in Japan**
Terashima **Jitsuro**, chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", **8/20**/10
Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve
But history is harsh… state of the bases.
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in;"> </span>
**Current US policy has made the nuclear umbrella and military deployment obsolete—bases in Japan no longer hold any deterrence value**
Terashima **Jitsuro**, chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", **8/20**/10 
Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve
At the time of …thinking will loom important. 

**Removal of bases shifts focus toward economic and security cooperation—this is the ONLY scenario for a sustainable alliance that preserves East Asian stability**
Terashima **Jitsuro**, chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", **8/20**/10
Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve
What Should Be Done-Demand …deserving of trust. 

Scenario 1 Geography:
**Current military presence alienates China—Basing makes China-Taiwan inevitable and leads to nuclear war**
Michael **Klare**, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, 20**06**,"Containing China: The US's real objective”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html
In discussing long-term …. such a conflagration.

**The US-Japan alliance is critical to stop Chinese—Taiwan conflict**
Yukio **Okamoto**, special advisor to the Japanese Prime Minister’s Task Force on Foreign Relations, WASHINGTON QUARTERLY, Spring 20**02**, p. 59
Regardless of whether … to a negotiated solution. 

**Second, Sino-Russian cooperation now. Strong Alliance key to loosen ties.**
Peter **Brooks**, Senior Fellow at the heritage foundation, 8/15/20**05** “An Alarming Alliance: Sino Russian ties tightening” The Heritage Foundation, http://www.heritage.org/Press/Commentary/ed081505a.cfm
The first- ever joint… ...burgeoning Sino-Russian entente.

**Russia-China alliance causes Chinese military modernization and world war.**
Arthur **Waldron**, professor of strategy and policy at the U.S. Naval War College and an associate of the Fairbank Center for East Asian Research at Harvard, 1997, “HOW NOT TO DEAL WITH CHINA,” March 19**97**
MAKING THESE flash-… ...or the United States. 

**Finally, Japanese leaders are shifting towards an increasingly anti US stance—drawdown of forces is key to appease them and maintain the security alliance**
Kenneth B. **Pyle**, Professor of History and Asian Studies at the University of Washington, “Troubled Alliance”, Compilation: A New Stage for the U.S. –Japan Alliance?, Asia Policy, Issue 10, 7/10/20**10**, [[http://asiapolicy.nbr.org/|http://asiapolicy.nbr.org]]
Japan and the United States … has shaped Japanese behavior. 

**Second is Cooperation:**
**First, strengthening U.S.-Japan alliance is key to energy innovation and environmental regulations**
Kent E. Calder, Director of Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies at SAIS/Johns Hopkins University, 
02/01/20**10** “U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.‐JAPAN COOPERATION”, [[http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf]]
Active U.S.‐Japan cooperation … interests in both countries.

**U.S.-Japan cooperation sets a precedent for clean energy and innovation in Asia that solves climate change**
Nirav Patel, research associate specializing in Asian affairs at the [[http://www.cnas.org/|Center for a New American Security]] December 7 20**07**
World Politics Review, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance Should Evolve to Encompass Environmental Cooperation,”
[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/1420/the-u-s-japan-alliance-should-evolve-to-encompass-environmental-cooperation]]
Historically, U.S.-Japan relations ….international peace, stability and security.

**We’re on the brink of runaway warming—that causes extinction**
Oliver **Tickell**, environmental researcher, 20**08**, 8/11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)
We need to get prepared … similar hothouse Earth.

**AND Even if we don’t win rapid warming, slight temperature increases cause methane burps which cause extinction**
John **Atcheson**, geologist, has held a variety of policy positions in several federal government agencies,
20**04**, “Ticking Time Bomb,” Baltimore Sun, December 15, [[http://www.commondreams.org/views04/1215-24.htm]]
There are enormous …arenWe have to act now.

**There’s no question about warming—it’s real and anthropogenic**
Stefan **Rahmstorf**, Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change,
20**08** (Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49)
It is time to turn to … we need to deal. 

**Even 1% risk justifies action ---- the consequences are too big**
Robert **Strom**, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, 20**07**
“Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246
Keep in mind that the … for action is now. 

**Contention 2 Is Japanese Politics:**

**Ozawa’s winning now but remaining Diet members are key to election – vote count proves**
**The Daily Yomiuri, 9/10**/10, “ Ozawa hot on Kan's tail in DPJ race ”, [[http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/national/T100909004727.htm]] {jchen}
Democratic Party of Japan … than one reason. 

**Okinawa withdrawal’s massively unpopular within the Diet**
Gregory **Smits**, associate professor of East Asian history at Pennsylvania State University, last modified 4/10/**10**, 
East Asian History website, “Okinawa in Postwar Japanese Politics and the Economy”, [[http://www.east-asian-history.net/Ryukyu/History/Okinawa/Postwar/index.htm]]
Because several thousand … the rest of Japan. 

**Ozawa supports controversial withdrawal but has backed off the issue to appease the Diet—linking it back to him would lose him the election**
Tobias **Harris**, Japanese politics specialist who worked for a DPJ member of the upper house of the Diet Observing Japan, 2/26/**09**, “What is Ozawa's angle?”, http://www.observingjapan.com/2009/02/what-is-ozawas-angle.html {jchen}
Ozawa Ichiro, a week after... ...vision to come to fruition?

**Ozawa victory maintains status quo economic policies that make collapse inevitable**
Bloomberg, William Pesek, Bloomberg News Columnist, 9/5/**10**, “Shadow Shoguns Will Trash $5 Trillion Economy”, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-05/shadow-shoguns-will-trash-5-trillion-economy-commentary-by-william-pesek.html {jchen}
There he was, scandal-tainted … about to come out. 

**Japanese economic crisis triggers global collapse**
Alan P. Weiss, president of Regent Wealth Management Group 12/7/**09**, New Haven Register “Japan’s deflation could have global ripple effect” http://www.nhregister.com/articles/2009/12/27/business/f2-weiss27.txt
JAPAN has the second-largest … and healthier economy tomorrow. 

**Nuclear war**
Walter Russell **Mead**, Senior Fellow in US Foreign Policy Studies @ Council on Foreign Relations, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, 2-4-**09**, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=1
The greatest danger… to be born?


==St Marks 1AC== 

**Contention 1: Inherency**

**Alliance collapse is inevitable in the status quo—Futenma only highlighted the issue of broader opposition to US bases in Japan**
Terashima **Jitsuro**, chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", 8/20/10 Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve {jchen}

But history is harsh… state of the bases.

**Japanese leaders are shifting towards an increasingly anti US stance—drawdown of forces is key to maintain the security alliance**
Kenneth B. **Pyle**, Professor of History and Asian Studies at the University of Washington, “Troubled Alliance”, Compilation: A New Stage for the U.S. –Japan Alliance?, Asia Policy, Issue 10, July 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://asiapolicy.nbr.org/|http://asiapolicy.nbr.org]]</span> {jchen}

Japan and the … has shaped Japanese behavior

**AND, the current alliance is strategically useless and will not survive a crisis—shift toward Japanese self-defense strengthens the alliance and cooperation on other bilateral issues**
Michael J. **Finnegan**, senior research associate at The National Bureau of Asian Research, “Return to Basics: Recalibrating the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance”, Compilation: A New Stage for the U.S. –Japan Alliance?, Asia Policy, Issue 10, July 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[@http://asiapolicy.nbr.org/|http://asiapolicy.nbr.org]]</span>

What next then? … and enduring value.

**The United States federal government should substantially reduce the United States’ military presence from Japan by reducing the United States’ military presence from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.**



**Scenario 1 is East Asian Stability**

**Removal of bases shifts focus toward security cooperation—this is the ONLY scenario for a sustainable alliance that preserves East Asian stability**
Terashima **Jitsuro**, chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", 8/20/10 Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve {jchen}

What Should Be Done-… truly deserving of trust.

**And, the plan is critical to rally support for the alliance and the rest of our troops stationed in Japan – It’s key to East Asian stability.**
**Barkdoll,** Commander in the U.S. Navy & Masters of Strategic Studies, 3-15-06 (Timothy, “The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Welcoming a New Japan,” USAWC Strategy Research Project, U.S. Army War College)

The security alliance …challenge in that pursuit.


**That instability causes wars and goes nuclear—Japanese alliance key to check conflict**
Richard L. **Armitage** Kurt M.Campbell, and Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye et al., fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard, contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; 2k “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm

Asia, in the throes ..global security strategy.

**Scenario 2 is the Environment**

**First, strengthening U.S.-Japan alliance is key energy innovation and environmental regulations**
Kent E. Calder, Director of Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies at SAIS/Johns Hopkins University, 02/01/10 “U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>JAPAN COOPERATION”, <http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf>) SM

Active U.S.<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>Japan cooperation … in both countries.


**U.S.-Japan cooperation is key to set a precedent for clean energy in Asia—solves climate change**
Nirav **Patel**, a research associate, specializing in Asian affairs, at the Center for a New American Security. December 7 2007 World Politics Review, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance Should Evolve to Encompass Environmental Cooperation,” http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/1420/the-u-s-japan-alliance-should-evolve-to-encompass-environmental-cooperation,”) SM 
Historically, U.S.-Japan relations … peace, stability and security.

**And, U.S. leadership on climate changes gets other countries on board**
Paul Harris, Professor of Political Science @ Lingnan University, 09 Energy Policy, Vol. 37, Iss. 3, March)

For those interested in … and its people to do. 

**And, global warming leads to extinction**
Oliver **Tickell**, environmental researcher, 08, 8/11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange) 

We need to get … similar hothouse Earth.


**AND Even if we don’t win rapid warming, slight temperature increases cause methane burps which cause extinction**
John **Atcheson**, geologist, has held a variety of policy positions in several federal government agencies, 2004, “Ticking Time Bomb,” Baltimore Sun, December 15, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.commondreams.org/views04/1215-24.htm]]</span>

There are enormous … We have to act now.

**And, there’s no question about warming—it’s real and anthropogenic**
Stefan **Rahmstorf**, Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, 08 (Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49)

It is time to turn to … which we need to deal.


**Scenario 3 is Japanese Rearmament**

**FIRST ,Maintaining the alliance prevents Japanese rearmament**
John **Ikenberry**. professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice at Georgetown, 2008 (Beyond Bilateralism: US-Japan Relations in the New Asia-Pacific, Ed. Krauss and Pempel)

The alliance system—…with the United States. 

**AND Even perception of Japan weaponization is enough to set off North Asian arms race**
Christopher W **Hughes**, PhD University of Sheffield, Professor at University of Warwick, January 2007, Asia Policy Number 3 75-104, “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://docs.google.com/gview?a=v&q=cache:blE5TXfgjFIJ:www]]</span> .nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP3/AP3Hughes.pdf+japanese+nuclearization+and+taiwan&hl=en&gl=us 
In turn, it is … on its nuclear program.

**AND Extinction.**
Toshimaru **Ogura** and Ingyu **Oh** are professors of economics, April, “Nuclear clouds over the Korean peninsula and Japan,” 1997 Accessed July 10, 2008 via Lexis-Nexis (Monthly Review)

North Korea, South Korea, … a global conflagration.

**AND Japan develops the bomb quickly-US defense report proves**
Jung **Sung-ki,** Korea Times staff writer, 3/18/2010, “S. Korea, Japan Can Build Nuclear Weapons Quickly,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2010/07/205_62636.html%20/|http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2010/07/205_62636.html //]]</span> vkoneru

South Korea, like Japan, … decide to do so.

**AND The impact is fast—Japan goes nuclear in four days.**
Toshi **Yoshihara and** James R. **Holmes**, associate professors of strategy at the U.S. Naval War College, 9 Naval War College Review, “Thinking About the Unthinkable: Tokyo’s Nuclear Option” cp
Will Japan go … Japanese economy relies. 

**Contention 3 is Solvency**

**The dispute over Futenma’s relocation has put relations on the brink—failure to accept its closure collapses the alliance**
Gavan **McCormack**, coordinator of The Asia-Pacific Journal, an emeritus professor of Australian National University, 9/10/10, FPIF, Foreign Policy In Focus, “The US-Japan ‘Alliance’, Okinawa, and Three Looming Elecions”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_okinawa_and_three_looming_elections?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+FPIF+(Foreign+Policy+In+Focus+(All+News)){jchen} 

The May 2010 US-… fact, was disagreement. 

**AND, Futenma exposed deeper problems of inequality—absent fundamental change the alliance is unsustainable**
Gavan **McCormack**, coordinator of The Asia-Pacific Journal, an emeritus professor of Australian National University, 9/10/10, FPIF, Foreign Policy In Focus, “The US-Japan ‘Alliance’, Okinawa, and Three Looming Elecions”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_okinawa_and_three_looming_elections?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+FPIF+(Foreign+Policy+In+Focus+(All+News)){jchen} 

Both in Washington …on the United States. 


**Removing troops restores the alliance and shifts to more sustainable cooperation on other security issues**
Doug **Bandow**, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, Vice President of Policy for Citizen Outreach, Huffington Post, Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance, Senior Fellow in International Religious Persecution at the Institute on Religion and Public Policy, served as a Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan, nationally syndicated columnist with Copley News Service, and editor of the monthly political magazine Inquiry, 3/25/10, “Okinawa and the Problem of Empire,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/okinawa-and-the-problems_b_512610.html

The Japanese government … after 65 long years

==UT aff== 
same alliance arguments as usual/solvency, etc



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>
TEXT: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence from Japan by reducing its military presence from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan. 

Guam 
Scenario 2 is Guam 

Troops withdrawn from Japan will get sent to Guam – key to nuclear powered vessels 
Kan and Niksch in 10 <span style="font-weight: normal;">(Shirley, Larry, specialist in Asian security affairs, spec. in Asian affairs, Congressional Research Service, Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments, p.2-4)pl</span> 
In May 2006, __<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">the </span></span>____<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">… Seattle, and San Diego.  </span></span>__

Key to deterrence – that stops a Korean war 
Erickson and Mikolay in 5<span style="font-weight: normal;"> (Andrew, Justin, assist. Prof. of Strategic Studies at U.S. Naval War college, Prof. at USNA, Comparative Strategy, Anchoring America’s Asian Assets: Why Washington Must Strengthen Guam, p. 168)pl </span>
__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Several <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">potential dangers </span>…</span></span>__ dislodge its anchor, Guam.  

A Korean war will destroy the planet – most likely scenario for extinction 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Africa News 99 </span></span>
[Pat Fungamwango, “Third world war: Watch the Koreas,” Oct 25, LN] 

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">If there is …</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> relations with North Korea. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">
</span> 
Regionalism  
Scenario 3 is Regionalism 

America’s military presence locks in an outdated security arrangement – it prevents Japan from rethinking its constitution and expanding their military responsibilities 
Doug <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bandow</span></span>, senior fellow at the Cato Institute 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">10</span></span><span class="CardsChar">, </span>May 12, “Japan Can Defend Itself,” 
<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">World War II ended …</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;"> Japan made a rethink unnecessary.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>

Removing troops is key to Japan to taking an active role in regional security  
Richard <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Cronin</span></span>, director of the Southeast Asia program at the Stimson Center, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">05</span></span> The Fletcher Forum of World Affairs Vol. 29 No. 1  

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. Defense Department’s … diplomatic, and military interests. </span>

No offense – independent Japanese forces are the most effective route to conflict in Asia – plan is key to spur development 
Ted <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Carpenter</span></span>, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">02</span></span> “Japan Takes a Modest Step Toward Global Security” 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The standard argument …</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> Japan to do so. </span></span>


U.S. forces are preventing Japanese regionalism – withdrawal is key 
Mike <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Rogers</span></span>, writer for LewRockwell, has written more than 150 articles, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">06</span></span> “China, North Korea and the Remilitarization of Japan” 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The choice is clear: …return to her Asian family. </span>


<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">East Asian regionalism solves every known impact by wide economic and political cooperation
</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Jusuf</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Wunadi 8</span> </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;">"East Asian Regionalism and Global Governance," East Asia at a Crossroads; (eds. Tokyo: Japan Center for International Exchange, 2008, pp. 19-37</span> </span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; text-autospace: none;"> </span>
In the longer term, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">…</span></span>newcomers to the role. 

East Asia without regionalism is the most probable scenario for nuclear war 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Ikenberry</span></span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">, </span>**Professor of Geopolitics at the University of Georgetown <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">and Mastanduno</span></span>, Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">03</span></span> 
//<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS THEORY AND THE ASIA PACIFIC</span></span>//<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">, PAGE 25-26 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> </span>
Many scholars and … for Chinese security. 



<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> </span>





=Negative= 

==Framework== 
A. Interpretation – the affirmative must affirm the topic instrumentally. The 1ac must include a topical plan that is justified with a normative defense of federal government adoption of such a policy.

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">B. Definitional support:</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1. The topic is defined by the phrase following the colon – the usfg is the agent of the resolution, not the individual debaters</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">webster’s guide to grammar and writing – 2000</span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 10px; padding-top: 0px;">[[http://ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/marks/colon.htm]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Use of a colon before a list or an explanation that is preceded by a clause that can stand by itself. Think of the colon as a gate, inviting one to go on… if the introductory phrase preceding the colon is very brief and the clause following the colon represents the real business of the sentence, begin the clause after the colon with a capital letter.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2. Should denotes an expectation of enacting a plan</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">american heritage dictionary – 2000 [www.dictionary.com]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">should: used to express probability or expectation</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">3. The usfg is the government in washington d.c.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">microsoft encarta online encyclopedia 2000 [http://encarta.msn.com]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“the federal government of the united states is centered in washington dc.”</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">C. Violation – the affirmative is not an instrumental affirmation of the resolution –specifically the affirmative defends a plan but they claim advantages off the act of advocating the plan and not its instrumental adoption. They argue that these advantages are prior to the consideration of the effects of the plan</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">D. Voting issue – if we demonstrate the affirmative does not meet the best interpretation of the topic they have failed to justify the resolution and should be rejected. This is the best way to preserve competitive equity by ensuring predictable ground for the negative.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Also, instrumentality is a jurisdictional voting issue</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ruth lesl shively, professor of politics at texas a&m, 2000 [partisan politics and political theory, p. 181-2]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">In most cases,… agreement or harmony.</span>

=Counterplans= 
==6 Party Talks CP== 

Text: The United States federal government should formally end the Korean War with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and fully commit to a new round of six party talks.
CP solves best- Declaring peace 
Moore 08 (Gregory J. Moore is Assistant Professor of Political Science and East Asian Studies at Eckerd College, St. Petersburg, Florida. His research and teaching responsibilities include Chinese and East Asian politics and international relations, and international relations theory and methods, “America’s Failed North Korea Nuclear Policy: A New Approach”, http://proquest.umi.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/pqdweb?index=0&did=1995208031&SrchMode=2&sid=2&Fmt=3&VInst=PROD&VType=PQD&RQT=309&VName=PQD&TS=1277489664&clientId=45950&cfc=1)
Sanctions are not … its nuclear-proliferation activities.



==Congress CP== 

TEXT: Independent from any decision regarding the location of the First Marine Air Wing Headquarters or the Jungle Warfare Training Center at Camp Gonsalves, the United States Congress should implement a strategy whereby Marines, other than the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit as well as a comparable number of Marines to maintain pre-positioned equipment and maintain access arrangement for the emergency use of Japanese facilities, are withdrawn from Japan. 

Counterplan solves—Congress has empirically used funding cutoffs to end foreign deployments successfully
Richard F. Grimmett, Specialist in National Defense, Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, 1/10/01, CRS Report for Congress, “ Congressional Use of Funding Cutoffs Since 1970 Involving U.S. Military Forces and Overseas Deployments ”, http://www.fas.org/man/crs/RS20775.pdf{jchen}
In cases of … War Powers Resolution. 



==NMS CP== 

The Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States should issue a National Military Strategy and corresponding strategic concept focused on implementation, that <plan> is necessary to achieve that national security goals of the United States. We’ll clarify. 

1. Competes – the CP doesn’t mandate the plan. It issues a recommendation that results in policy change. 

2. Solves – NMS is a keystone document that shapes military policy – it integrates consultation between Congress and the DOD, building broad support for the plan
Meinhart 8 (Dr. Richard M., Professor of Defense and Joint Processes at the U.S. Army War College, “National Military Strategies: 1990 to 2007”, National Security Policy and Strategy, Ed. Bartholomees, June, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTR Doc?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The N</span>ational <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">M</span>ilitary … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">global security environment.</span>

The National Military Strategy can effectively cause military withdrawal --- it shapes operational planning, resource allocation, and future defense planning 
Riley 94 (Don T., Lieutenant Colonel – United States Army, “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4-18, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)

Should not the … now begins today.

And, the net benefit is CMR, the CP is key
Gibson '8 – PhD @ Cornell Univ. (Christopher P., "Securing the State: Reforming the National Security Decision-making Process at the Civil-Military Nexus," p.106-112, RG)

At this point …, Joint Chiefs of Staff.12


Civlian Military Relations Strong, Despite McChrystal
AFP 7/14 [7/14/10, " Holbrooke: No US civilian-military split in Kabul ", 
http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5iqaoyPndfXzRPMz-kHjc5kvE5hbA]

Top US diplomats … told the panel. 


Plan decimates CMR – military decisions hinge on process – the Joint Chiefs must be active leaders to avoid the perception of getting steam-rolled
Baker 8 (Anni P., Assistant Professor of History – Wheaton College, Life in the Armed Forces: (Not) Just Another Job, p. 192-195)

THE INFLUENCE OF … other <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">military considerations</span>.

CMR is key to maintaining effect hegemony
RICHRARD Kohn, US COMISSION ON NAT’L SECURITY, FDCH TRANSCRIPTS, 11/4/99

My focus is on the …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> American foreign policy.</span>

Key to prevent global nuclear exchange
Zalmay Khalilzad, RAND, The Washington Quarterly, Spring 1995
Under the third … balance of power system.


==Torture CP== 

TEXT: The United States federal government should enforce existing US bans on torture by ordering all US government agencies to comply with domestic laws and international treaty obligations prohibiting torture and revoke all orders authorizing cruel and unusual punishment. 

Solves case- Cross ex proves that the US has current bans on torture but are being skirted. 

BAGRAM WAS ONE OF TWO OPTIONS FOR HIGH VALUE TERRORISM DETAINEES—CLOSING BAGRAM LEADS TO CIVIL TRIALS IN AMERICA AND DOMESTIC IMPRISONMENT
E<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">VANS</span> 201<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">0</span> (MICHAEL, PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT FOR THE SUNDAY TIMES (UK), MARCH 22 HTTP://WWW.TIMESONLINE.CO.UK/TOL/NEWS/WORLD/US_AND_AMERICAS/ARTICLE7070460.ECE)//
//The American detention … oppose such a move.//

//DOMESTIC IMPRISONMENT LEADS TO TERROR ATTACKS ON US SOIL//
//<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">GERAGHTY</span> 20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">09</span> (JIM, JANUARY 22, “HOW HOUSING DETAINEES IN MAXIMUM SECURITY PRISONS IMPACTS THE AMERICAN CITIZENS RESIDING NEARBY IS BEYOND ME.” HTTP://WWW.NATIONALREVIEW.COM/CAMPAIGN-SPOT/8021/HOW-HOUSING-DETAINEES-MAXIMUM- SECURITY-PRISONS-IMPACTS-AMERICAN-CITIZENS-RESIDING)
If a detainee … words of Le Monde. 

TERROR ATTACKS ON US SOIL LEAD TO GLOBAL NUCLEAR WAR—US LASH OUT AND PRE-EMPTIVE STRIKES BY RUSSIA AND CHINA
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">CORSI</span> 20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">05</span> PH.D.INPOLITICALSCIENCEFROMHARVARDUNIVERSITY
[JEROME CORSI (EXPERT IN ANTIWAR MOVEMENTS AND POLITICAL VIOLENCE), ATOMIC IRAN, PG. 176-178]
The United States retaliates: … of exacting revenge. 


==Futenma PIC== 

Independent from any decision regarding the location of the headquarters of the Third Marine Expeditionary Force, the Department of Defense should agree to gradually withdraw Marines from Marine Corp Air Station Futenma other than the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit as well as a comparable number of Marines to maintain pre-positioned equipment and maintain access arrangement for the emergency use of Japanese facilities.

=Disads= 
==Gates Disad== 



A. Gates is winning the next round of defense cuts but it’s tough—he needs all the political capital he can get

Newsweek, John Barry, national security correspondent, 8/17/10, “Why Gates Seems Set on a 2011 Departure”, http://www.newsweek.com/2010/08/17/why-gates-seems-set-on-a-2011-departure.html {jchen} 

Each defense budget … in the preelection frenzy. 



B. Plan means Gates will have to force a Futenma policy change back on the agenda—drains his political capital and he can’t delegate it

Peter Ennis, former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist, 7/29/10, “Simmering Okinawa Problem Could Boil Over”, http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/us-japan-relations/ {jchen}

Unfortunately, a shift in … in the continental US. 



C. Defense cuts key to fund development of Littoral Combat Ships

Newsweek, John Barry and Evan Thomas, national security correspondent, Editor, 9/12/10, “A War Within”, http://www.newsweek.com/2010/09/12/what-gates-plans-to-do-before-he-leaves-office.html {jchen}

Part of what Gates … force those choices. 



D. Littoral combat ships key to maintain naval supremacy—flexible deployment and ability to sweep mines 

Max Boot, senior fellow in national security studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, columnist for LA Times, regular contributor to the New York Times, Washington Post, Foreign Affairs, editor of Wall Street Journal, October 2006, The New Atlantis, “The Paradox of Military Technology”, http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/the-paradox-of-military-technology{jchen}

Mines, which can …various “low-tech” attacks. 



E. Naval supremacy’s key to deter and stop great power war

James T. Conway, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, and Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, October 2007, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,”, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf) 

Deter major power … extended campaigns ashore. 






==ABL== 



The ABL programs funding has been cut, however it can always be renewed.

Stephen <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Trimble</span>, @ Flight International, 2/17/<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">10 [</span>Airborne Laser faces uncertain future despite historic intercept test, http://www.flightglobal.com/articles/2010/02/17/338475/airborne-laser-faces-uncertain-future-despite-historic-intercept.html]

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The Airborne Laser </span>… request, he says. 



Withdrawal would shift budget toward future weapons, and industry lobbyist are compensated with new ABL contracts.

( Christopher <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Drew</span>, Covers military contracting and Pentagon spending for The New York Times. He is also the co-author of “Blind Man’s Bluff,” a best-selling book about submarine spying during the Cold War. 2/27/0<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">9</span>“Military Contractors Await Details of Obama’s Budget”. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/28/business/28defense.html)

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The good news </span>… of those decisions. 



Congress and Contractors Will Demand ABL

Riki <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Ellison</span>, Chairman and Founder of the Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2/15/10 </span>[http://www.defpro.com/news/details/13147/]

"President <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Obama and</span> … allies' necessary protection." 



Lobbying efforts ensure Obama will compensate

(David <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Bogoslaw</span>, @ Business Week, August 23 200<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">8 </span>http://www.businessweek.com/print/investor/content/aug2008/pi20080822_702066.htm)

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The defense industry is</span> … policy," says Aboulafia. 



ABL ensures a directed energy weapon arms race

(Paul <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Rogers</span> Professor of Government at Bradford University 200<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2</span>, http://www.opendemocracy.net/conflict/article_153.jsp)

The United States development … to be discounted. 



Extinction ensues – eliminates opportunity costs to nuclear war

(Jeff <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Hech</span>, M.Ed. Higher Education –MA in Electronic Engineering - Editor @ Laser Focus World, Beam Weapons: The Next Arms Race, 19<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">84</span> p. 10-11)

It’s only appropriate …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> to World War III.</span>


==Allied Prolif- South Korea== 

U.S military presence means South Korea won’t militarize now.
Bruce Bennett, Senior Policy Analyst – RAND Corporation, ’10, “S. Korea’s Military Capability ‘Inadequate’”, Chosun Ilbo, 1-29, http://english.chosun.com/site/data/html_dir/2010/01/29/2010012900705.html, 7/1/2010)
An American academic … spending each year. 



Reducing troop deployments weakens extended deterrence in Asia. The impact is regional prolif.
Robert Scales and Larry Wortzel, Major Gen. and former Deputy Chief of Staff for Base Operations, and Col. – US Army, Dir. Strategic Studies Institute – US Army War College, ’99, “THE FUTURE U.S. MILITARY PRESENCE IN ASIA: LANDPOWER AND THE GEOSTRATEGY OF AMERICAN COMMITMENT”, 4-6, former Deputy Chief of Staff for Doctrine at Headquarters Training and Doctrine Command – US Army and PhD in History – Duke, and Larry, Col. – US Army, Dir. Strategic Studies Institute – US Army War College, and PhD in Pol. Sci. – U. Hawaii, (https://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB75.pdf)
The presence of … of improving them.


East Asia prolif causes nuclear war.
Joseph Cerincione, Director of the Non-Proliferation Project – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Foreign Policy, ’00 , “The Asian nuclear reaction chain”, Issue 118, Spring, Proquest
The blocks would …weapon since 1945.


==START== 

START will pass, but Obama’s capital is key 
The Hill, 7-23-10, http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/110549-kerry-confident-senate-will-ratify-start-this-year 
The chairman of the Senate … back the treaty

Plan sparks partisan controversy 
The Mainichi Daily News, Japanese News Source, 
6/23/10, The Mainichi Daily, 
http://mdn.mainichi.jp/mdnnews/news/20100623p2g00m0in032000c.html 
WASHINGTON (Kyodo) -- 
A group of bipartisan lawmakers submitted … base within Okinawa. 

Pushing controversial issues drains Obama’s capital 
Mark Seidenfeld, Associate Professor, Florida State University College of Law, Iowa Law Review, October 1994
In addition, the propensity of … implement his policy vision. 

START key to prevent extinction 
A. Accidental launches triggers US-Russo nuclear war 
Blanchfield 9 
Mike Blanchfield, staff writer, 7-4-2009. [Montreal Gazette, “Duck and cover or a world without nukes?” http://www.montrealgazette.com/story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor=] 
Still, Blair and many others … buried by them," Blair said. 

B. Failure to renew START would hurts US-Russia relations. 
Kimball 9 
Daryl Kimball, Executive Director of the Arms Control Association, 4-27-2009. [Federal News Service, Transcript: Next Steps in US-Russian Nuclear Arms Reductions: The START Follow-On Negotiations and Beyond, p. http://www.armscontrol.org/node/3632] 
And just as importantly,… U.S.-Russian relations.

==Heg Disad== 
Trends show strengthening U.S. hegemony 
Smith 2010 
(Perry a retired U.S. Air Force major general, is the author of six books, including Rules and Tools for Leaders Agusta chronicle,, In a troubled world, America still has a multitude of strengths, accessed: 2/22/10, [[http://chronicle.augusta.com/2010-02-19/troubled-world-america-still-has-multitude-strengths?v=1266701777]] DA 7/15/10) 
With so much in the … to our future.

Marine presence in Okinawa acts as a key deterrent against enemy attacks and maintains Japan security 
Bruce, Klingner, a Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation. 
May 28, 2010, The Heritage Foundation, “With Re-Acceptance of Marines on Okinawa, Time to Look Ahead,”http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/05/With-Re-Acceptance-of-Marines-on-Okinawa-Time-to-Look-Ahead) SM 
The DPJ policy reversal … and defense capabilities.

Sustained unipolar hegemony prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict. 
Kagan 2007 
[Robert, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Hoover Institution - Stanford U, in Policy Review, No 144, [[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]] 
Finally, there is the United … an easier path.

=Kritiks= 
==Nietzsche== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Life is pain. Anyone who tells your otherwise is selling something. The affirmative’s fixation with ending suffering negates life. We must instead embrace it as a testing and show of strength.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kain, professor of philosophy at Santa Clara, 2007</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Philip J., “Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence,” Journal of Nietzsche Studies 33 (2007), 49-63]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Why is it best never to …it can only be concealed.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The 1AC is not an act of alterity – it is an act of pity, which distances us further from those they depict. The Aff call for compassion is a self-serving act, which enables the State to wage violence from a moral high-ground.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Campbell, Professor of Cultural and Political Geography @ Durham, 1999</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[David, “Violence, Justice, and Identity in the Bosnian Conflict,” Sovereignty and Subjectivity, ed. Edkins and Pin-fat, p21-22]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This is the strange morality … can be subjected.13</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The affirmative challenges nuclear weapons, and blinks. The suicidal nihilism fostered by the all-too-careful utilitarianism of the Last Man outweighs all.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Owen and Ridley, 2K [David, assistant director of the Centre for Post-Analytic Philosophy at the University of Southampton, Aaron, senior lecture and associate director of the Centre for Post-Analytic Philosophy at the University of Southampton, “Dramatis Personae,” in Why Nietzsche Still? ed. Alan Schrift, pp. 149-151]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">What is to be feared, … his destruction desirable " (BGE 225).</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Embrace the status quo. We must affirm all of existence to overcome life-destroying nihilism.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Sadegh Kabeer, doctoral candidate in Middle Eastern politics and previously worked as a journalist based in the United Arab Emirates, 2008</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.eterazonline.com/2008_03_01_archive.html|__http://www.eterazonline.com/2008_03_01_archive.html__]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Salomé argues that after … utopian has yet reached!’<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.blogger.com/post-create.g?blogID=485949151179351055|__[lxxxiii]__]]</span></span>
==Security== 
The affirmative’s discussion of policy is based on a positivist mode of “knowing” China. China is not something that we stand back and observe- this constructs a mode of thought that can only relate to China as a threat. 
Chengxin Pan, PhD degree in Political Science and International Relations from the Australian National University The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Vol. 29, 
2004
China and its relationship … seeks to make a contribution. 

Security is constructed, not natural. The rhetoric of impending death is used to justify astonishing violence. Whole populations are eliminated in the name of security. 
David Campbell, professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle. Writing Security, 1998. (199 – 202)
Security and subjectivity …and foreign policy/Foreign Policy are all a part. 

Reject the Affirmatives Logic of Security, This Allows For Actual Political Thought - Accepting Their Descriptions and Responses Colonizes The Debate 
Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, ‘8 [Critique of Security, 185-6] 
The only way out of such … return the gift.


==Security K- China Link== 

The affirmative’s discussion of policy is based on a positivist mode of “knowing” China. China is not something that we stand back and observe- this constructs a mode of thought that can only relate to China as a threat. 
Pan, PhD degree in Political Science and International Relations from the Australian National University, 2004 (Chengxin, The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Vol. 29, 2004) 
China and its … make a contribution.

==Atchison and Panetta== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Using the debate space for social change creates backlash and fractures coalitions. The opponent becomes the scapegoat for broader ideological currents and losses create hostile situations and undermine productive discussion.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Atchison and Panetta 9 (Jarrod Atchison, PhD. In Speech Communication. Edward Panetta, Ph.D. in Communication. “Intercollegiate Debate Speech Communication: Historical Developments and Issues for the Future”; The SAGE Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Pg. 28-9)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The larger problem … number of people.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The affirmative team sacrifices the “community” portion of community change through their use of individual debate rounds as activist strategy.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Atchison and Panetta 9 (Jarrod Atchison, PhD. In Speech Communication. Edward Panetta, Ph.D. in Communication. “Intercollegiate Debate Speech Communication: Historical Developments and Issues for the Future”; The SAGE Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Pg. 28)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The final problem … of community change.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Our alternative does not preclude their speech act. Instead, we should advocate it during a moderated discussion or public debate during a tournament banquet or awards ceremony.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Atchison and Panetta 9 (Jarrod Atchison, PhD. In Speech Communication. Edward Panetta, Ph.D. in Communication. “Intercollegiate Debate Speech Communication: Historical Developments and Issues for the Future”; The SAGE Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Pg. 30-32)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Tournaments that already … of the forum first.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Public dialogue is the only format by which we can ever hope to create change within the debate community, and coalitions between debaters and the “real world.” This ensures a broader, more productive impact for their movement.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Atchison and Panetta 9 (Jarrod Atchison, PhD. In Speech Communication. Edward Panetta, Ph.D. in Communication. “Intercollegiate Debate Speech Communication: Historical Developments and Issues for the Future”; The SAGE Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Pg. 27-8)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A second problem with …than individual debates.</span>

==Community K== 
Link: Communal relations is a double edged sword, aimed at excluding those that the community doesn’t deem fit
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Heather Strang, John Braithwaite (“Restorative justice and civil society” pg 58) 01</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">With these considerations … to secure self-preservation.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Impact: This system will inevitably destroy value to life of everyone inside it</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Emerson,1856 (Ralph Waldo. English Traits. 1856.http://www.emersoncentral.com/conduct.htm)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The ambition to … of the fabric.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Alt: Reject the current “society”. The only way to achieve happiness is to go out on one’s own and celebrate The Individual. You must vote negative to bring about individual changes starting in this debate round.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Emerson, 41(Ralph Waldo. Man The Reformer. A Lecture read before the Mechanics' Apprentices' Library Association. Jan 25, 1841. http://www.emersoncentral.com/conduct.htm)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Considerations of this … its sceptre. //</span>


==<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Value to Life K</span>== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The framing of value to life justifies euthanasia and genocide
Richard Coleson, M.A.R., J.D., Issues in Law & Medicine, Summer, 1997
Euthanasia also was advocated in Germany...euthanasia will be no less dire.

Their argument risks a slippery slope – once we decide that certain lives are not worth living- all killing is justified and we jeopardize all ethics
Lisa Hanger, B.A. at Miami University, Summer, 1992, Journal of Law-Medicine, 5 Health Matrix 347
Considering anencephalic infants "dead" ...down the slippery slope becomes significant.

The alternative is to reject the affirmative for their framing of life. We endorse a framework where there is always meaning to life.
Victor Frankl, Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry at the University of Vienna, Man’s Search for Meaning, 1946, p. 104
These efforts were usually concerned with ...miserably—knowing how to die.

</span></span>



=<span style="font-size: 21px; font-weight: 800; line-height: 31px;">Case</span>= 

==Case 1NC: Damien MM== 
==China== 

China rise is inevitable peaceful – three warrants


1. Leaders
Bitzinger and Desker, 2008 (Richard A., Senior Fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, and Barry, Dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies and Director of the Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies, Nanyang Technological University, “Why east Asian War is Unlikely,” Survival, Vol. 50, No. 6)
Still, the rise of … as some might argue. 

2. International institutions
Bitzinger and Desker, 2008 (Richard A., Senior Fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, and Barry, Dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies and Director of the Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies, Nanyang Technological University, “Why east Asian War is Unlikely,” Survival, Vol. 50, No. 6)
There are other … influence in global governance. 

3. Economic integration
Bitzinger and Desker, 2008 (Richard A., Senior Fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, and Barry, Dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies and Director of the Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies, Nanyang Technological University, “Why east Asian War is Unlikely,” Survival, Vol. 50, No. 6)
China's rapid emergence …regional and global affairs. 

Conflict over Taiwan won't go nuclear
Herzog ‘8 (Stephen, British American Security Information Council; "The Dilemma between Deterrence and Disarmament: Moving beyond the Perception of China as a Nuclear Threat"; http://www.basicint.org/pubs/Papers/BP57.pdf)
Even with guarantees … strategically, and rhetorically.



==Solvency== 

The DoD has no authority—it only submits RECOMMENDATIONS to Congress on closing the bases—a “force structure plan” is the roadmap presented to Congress, NOT jurisdiction
Gordon England, Secretary of the US Navy, “DOD Base Closure and Realignment 
Report to the Commission” DON, May 2005, Online {jchen}
In making recommendations … mandated selection criteria.



==Case 1NC: New Trier== 
==Relations== 


Obama committed to long-term presence in Korea as part of furthering the US-ROK alliance
American Forces Press Service 9. July 15. "North Korean provocations underscore importance of U.S., South Korean alliance" http://www.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123158762
But noting North Korea's … three-year accompanied tours."

Withdrawing would collapse the ROK-US alliance 
Bruce Klingner 7 - Senior Research Fellow at Heritage Foundation's Asia Studies center. 20 years of intelligence research for the CIA and DIA. Deputy Chief for Korea in CIA Directorate of Intelligence. Master's in National Security Strategy @ National War College. Master's in strategic intelligence @ Defense Intelligence College. BA in Poli Sci @ Middlebury. Third degree black belt in TKD, first degree black belt in hapkido and tauk kong moo sool, watch out. Asia Times. "Confusion in the South Korean Ranks". June 17. http://agonist.org/story/2004/6/16/95220/2051Klingner
A litany of US … to play a larger role. 

The US-SK relationship key to deter North Korea
Sheen, assistant professor and director at the Graduate School of International Studies, Seoul National University, 2009
(Dr. Seongho, research fellow at Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, M.A., B.A., ex-assistant research professor at Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies, The International Spectator, Vol. 44, No. 2: To Be or Not To Be: South Korea’s East Asia Security Strategy and the Unification Quandary, pg. 42, June 2009, accessed June 22, 2010, FS TS)
<Since the Korean …as national defence.>


==North Korea== 

U.S. withdrawal from South Korea would undermine the credibility of U.S. leadership and make North Korean/South Korean conflict inevitable
Center Movement, by Patrick Flood ( 7/12/10 “ Korea, China and the US — An Alternative View” http://www.centermovement.org/topics-issues/foreign-policy/korea-china-and-the-us-an-alternative-view/

The Broad Context: “… restored IAEA controls.

Troops in South Korea are the linchpin of US power projection—withdrawal causes a destabilizing power vacuum

Lee Byong-Chul is a Senior Fellow at the Institute for Peace and Cooperation in Seoul, "Reshaping the South Korea-US alliance", 3/4/10, AsiaSentinel, http://www.asiasentinel.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2328&Itemid=182
With the Americans … nuclear weapons program.


Sanctions deter ANY North Korean aggression.
Jason Markham, B.A. In religious Studies, "Attack by North Korea Raises Regional Tensions," 5/21 http://www.associatedcontent.com/article/5406958/attack_by_north_korea_raises_regional.html?cat=9, 
The international investigation … sanctions just last year³.

South Korea is out if North Korea attacks – won’t back the US.
Vijay Joshi, AP Staff Writer, "SKorea's Lee sees no possibility of war with North," 6/5 http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jFoJSL1TdsqcmxTABYNX3ENr1_TwD9G4U2G80, 
SINGAPORE — South Korea's leader on … did not elaborate.

No escalation – empirically denied
(Warren Strobel and Jonathan Landay – Foreign affairs correspondents 5/25/10, “Will North Korea's saber rattling lead to war?” http://news.yahoo.com/s/mcclatchy/20100525/wl_mcclatchy/3516222) 
"It's not inevitable...town of Kaesong.

==China== 

China will rise to power peacefully – no war
Bitzinger and Desker, 2008 (Richard A., Senior Fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, and Barry, Dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies and Director of the Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies, Nanyang Technological University, “Why east Asian War is Unlikely,” Survival, Vol. 50, No. 6)
Still, the rise of … as some might argue. 


International institutions guarantee peaceful rise in China
Bitzinger and Desker, 2008 (Richard A., Senior Fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, and Barry, Dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies and Director of the Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies, Nanyang Technological University, “Why east Asian War is Unlikely,” Survival, Vol. 50, No. 6)
There are other … in global governance. 
Economic integration guarantees peaceful rise to power
Bitzinger and Desker, 2008 (Richard A., Senior Fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, and Barry, Dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies and Director of the Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies, Nanyang Technological University, “Why east Asian War is Unlikely,” Survival, Vol. 50, No. 6)
China's rapid emergence … regional and global affairs. 




==Case 1NC: Edina SS== 
==Asia== 

No Asian war – everything is getting better
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Bitzinger and Desker</span>, 200<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">8</span> (Richard A., Senior Fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, and Barry, Dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies and Director of the Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies, Nanyang Technological University, “Why east Asian War is Unlikely,” Survival, Vol. 50, No. 6)
Yet despite all … inconceivable — is unlikely. 

Nuclear deterrence means there won’t be war in Asia
Alagappa, 2008 (Muthiah, Distinguished senior fellow at the East-West Center, The Long Shadow, pg. 508-509)
The grim <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">scenarios </span>… with defensive realism. 

==China== 

China rise is inevitable peaceful – three warrants
1. Leaders
Bitzinger and Desker, 2008 (Richard A., Senior Fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, and Barry, Dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies and Director of the Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies, Nanyang Technological University, “Why east Asian War is Unlikely,” Survival, Vol. 50, No. 6)
Still, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the rise of </span>… some might argue. 

2. International institutions
Bitzinger and Desker, 2008 (Richard A., Senior Fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, and Barry, Dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies and Director of the Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies, Nanyang Technological University, “Why east Asian War is Unlikely,” Survival, Vol. 50, No. 6)
There are other … in global governance. 

3. Economic integration
Bitzinger and Desker, 2008 (Richard A., Senior Fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, and Barry, Dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies and Director of the Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies, Nanyang Technological University, “Why east Asian War is Unlikely,” Survival, Vol. 50, No. 6)
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">China's</span> rapid <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">emergence </span>… regional and global affairs. 

Conflict over Taiwan won't go nuclear
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Herzog ‘8</span> (Stephen, British American Security Information Council; "The Dilemma between Deterrence and Disarmament: Moving beyond the Perception of China as a Nuclear Threat"; http://www.basicint.org/pubs/Papers/BP57.pdf)
Even with guarantees …, strategically, and rhetorically.

AND Even perception of Japan weaponization is enough to set off North Asian arms race 
Christopher W <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Hughes,</span> PhD University of Sheffield, Professor at University of Warwick, January <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2007,</span> Asia Policy Number 3 75-104, “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan” http://docs.google.com/gview?a=v&q=cache:blE5TXfgjFIJ:www .nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP3/AP3Hughes.pdf+japanese+nuclearization+and+taiwan&hl=en&gl=us 
In turn, it is … its nuclear program.

AND Extinction.
Toshimaru <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Ogura and</span> Ingyu <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Oh</span> are professors of economics, April, “Nuclear clouds over the Korean peninsula and Japan,” 19<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">97</span> Accessed July 10, 2008 via Lexis-Nexis (Monthly Review)

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">North Korea, South Korea, … a global conflagration.</span>


==Case 1NC: Law Magnet PB== 
==[[#_Toc225607876]]== 
1. Incorporating CIL would invalidate the Nuclear Deal
Wable, J.D., Brooklyn Law School, 2008 (Kesav Murthy Wable, B.A., Haverford College (2002); J.D., Brooklyn Law School (expected 2008) “The U.S.-India Strategic Nuclear Partnership: A Debilitating Blow To The Non-Proliferation Regime,” 33 Brooklyn J. Int'l L. 719, Lexis)
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The U.S.-India nuclear</span> …of other states. n92

2. Obama marks a turning point in US-India relations--the civilian nuclear deal is the litmus test of cooperation
Curtis, Senior Research Fellow at The Heritage Foundation, 2009 (Lisa Curtis is a Senior Research Fellow at The Heritage Foundation, focusing on analyzing America's economic, security, and political relationships with India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal, “Building a Strategic Partnership: U.S.-India Relations in the Wake of Mumbai,” Testimony before Foreign Affairs Committee Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia United States House of Representatives, 2-26, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Asiaandthepacific/tst022609a.cfm)
The U.S.-India relationship … Jammu and Kashmir.
3. US-India relations are key to stability
Bajpai, teaches at the School of International Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University, in New Delhi, 2001(Kanti, “Add five 'E's to make a partnership,” Washington Quarterly, Summer)
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">An Indian-U.S. partnership </span>… into the relationship. 


4. Pakistan-India conflict leads to extinction
Fai 2001 (Executive Director of the Kashmiri American Council, “The most dangerous place,”7-8, lexis)
The foreign policy … Fissile Material/Cut-off Convention.
==Impact D== 
Nuclear deterrence means there won’t be war in Asia 
Alagappa, 2008 (Muthiah, Distinguished senior fellow at the East-West Center, The Long Shadow, pg. 508-509) 
Thegrim scenarios … defensive realism. 

==China War Good== 
War with China is imminent—war now would be won by the United States and be a small conflict. Delaying the inevitable results in a future war that will escalate to nuclear extinction 
Jed Babbin & Edward Timperlake, 2006, “War with China: not only possible, but inevitable Here's a guide to how it may happen -- and how we can win Showdown: Why China Wants War with the United States”,[[@http://www.conservativebookservice.com/products/BookPage.asp?prod_cd=c6926#continue| http://www.conservativebookservice.com/products/BookPage.asp?prod_cd=c6926#continue]]
Will the U.S. go … everyone who loves America.