[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
need cites. email [[mailto:rreddy66@gmail.com|rreddy66@gmail.com]]
==Turkey Affirmative- Hays== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention 1 is Inherency**</span>

**U.S. has tactical nuclear weapons in Turkey with no strategic use. Weapons have been reduced in the past but 90 still exist. Theory of deterrence does not apply.**
Alexandra __**Bell**__ is the research assistant for Nuclear Policy at the Center for American Progress. Bell received a master's degree in International Affairs from the New School and a bachelor's degree in Peace, War and Defense and U.S. History from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Her graduate work focused on nonproliferation and security issues in the Middle East. 11-23-__**2009**__ [The status of U.S. nuclear weapons in Turkey, http://www.thebulletin.org/-web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey] 
For more than 40 years, ...are without military value or purpose 

**Plan: The United States federal government should remove all of the United States’ B-61 gravity bombs from the Republic of Turkey.**

**Advantage 1 is Russia Relations**

**TNW removal key to U.S-Russia relations-Russia has done their part**
Natalya __**Kovalenko**__ writes articles about Russia 5-19-__**2010**__ [Will U.S. Tactical Nukes remain in Europe? http://english.ruvr.ru/2010/05/19/8101005.html] 
After the Russian and US Presidents ...talks with Moscow without any preconditions. 

**US TNWs kill relations with Russia and removal leads to Russia reciprocation**
Hans M. __**Kristensen**__ is the Director of the Nuclear Information Project at the Federation of American Scientists __**2005**__ [“U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Europe” Natural Resources Defense Council] 
U.S. nuclear weapons ...provide real benefits to NATO security. 

**U.S-Russia Relations key to prevent extinction and solve any other impacts**
Jeffery __**Taylor**__ is an Atlantic correspondent living in Moscow __**2008**__ [Medvedev Spoils the Party, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200811u/medvedev-obama/2] 
Like it or not, the ...a volatile future arm in arm. 

**TNWs are the root of a warfighting mentality that results in miscalculation and war escalatio**n 
Harald __**Müller**__ and Annette __**Schaper**__ are Peace Research Institute April __**2k**__ [“The Definitions, Types, Missions, Risks and Options for Control”, Tactical nuclear weapons: options for control, ed William Potter, UNIDIR 119 http://www.unidir.org/bdd/fiche-ouvrage.php?ref_ouvrage=92-9045-136-X-en] 
TNWs invite the development of a ...the risk for misperception and miscalculation. 

**Scenario 1 is Global Climate Change**

**Relations solves warming**
Thomas __**Graham**__, head of Political/Internal United, July __**08**__ [http://csis.org/files/media/cisis/pubs080717grahamu.s.russia.pdf] 
What trends? Simply put...gets other countries on board 
Paul Harris, Professor of Political Science @ Lingnan University, 2009 Energy Policy, Vol. 37, Iss. 3, March) 

**We’re on the brink of runaway warming—that causes extinction**
Oliver __**Tickell**__, environmental researcher, __**2008**__, 8/11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange) 
We need to get prepared for ...us towards a similar hothouse Earth. 

**AND Even if we don’t win rapid warming, slight temperature increases cause methane burps which cause extinction**
John __**Atcheson**__, geologist, has held a variety of policy positions in several federal government agencies, __**2004**__, “Ticking Time Bomb,” Baltimore Sun, December 15, http://www.commondreams.org/views04/1215-24.htm 
There are enormous quantities of naturally .... We have to act now. 

**There’s no question about warming—it’s real and anthropogenic**
Stefan __**Rahmstorf**__, Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, __**2008**__ (Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49) 
It is time to turn to ...with which we need to deal. 

**Even 1% risk justifies action ---- the consequences are too big**
Robert __**Strom**__, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, __**2007**__ “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246 
Keep in mind that the ...The time for action is now. 

**Advantage 2 is Iranian Proliferation**

Iran is building a nuclear arsenal
John __**Pike**__ one of the world's leading experts on defense, space and intelligence policy, 6-29-__**2010**__ [“Weapons of Mass Destruction: Nuclear Weapons” Global Security http://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/world/iran/nuke.htm] 
In December 2003 Presidential hopeful John ..., potentially others," Edwards said. 

**Turkish credibility is key to persuade Iran**
Alon __**Ben-Meir**__ is a Senior Fellow at the Center for Global Affairs in New York University and teaches courses on the Middle East and international negations, Spring __**2009**__ [“A Nuclear Iran is not an Option: A New Negotiating Strategy” http://www.unc.edu/depts/diplomat/item/2009/0103/comm/benmeir_iran.html] 
The presence of a third party ...it has long and friendly relations. 

**U.S. must remove TNWs for Turkey to prevent Iran prolif**
Mustafa __**Kibaroglu**__ is a professor and vice chair of the inter-relations department at Bilikent University 6-7-__**2010**__ [Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, Arms Control Association, 
In addition to improvements in bilateral ...U.S. nuclear weapons. 

**A nuclear Iran makes proliferation inevitable: the nuclear program has already violated many terms of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty**
Massimo __**Calabresi**__ is a writer for Time magazine, 3-8-__**2003**__ [“Iran’s Nuclear Threat,” Time Magazine, 
Iran announced last week that it ...issue be solved in other ways." 

**Iranian proliferation leads to every major impact**
S. Enders __**Wimbsh**__ is a senior Vice President for International Programs and Policy at Hudson Institute __**and**__ Christopher A. __**Ford**__ is a senior fellow and director of the Center for Technology and Global Security at Hudson Institute, 1-14-__**2010**__ [“Perspectives upon a Nuclear Iran” Hudson Institute, http://www.hudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=6698] VP 
Possession of nuclear arms may well ...defining America’s role to everyone else. 

**Iranian proliferation leads to spiraling regional conflict including Israeli first strike**
Jan __**Romero**__ is a researcher of Middle Eastern affairs at Jane’s Intelligence Review, 3-1-__**1999**__ [Charting reactions to the Islamic bomb lnu-acs,] VP 
Recently, Israel expressed concern about ...with a gun in one's hand. 

**An Israeli strike results in extinction**
Leonid __**Ivashov**__ is an analyst at the Strategic Culture Foundation, 4-21-__**2007**__ ["Iran: the Threat of a Nuclear War," "Iran: the Threat of a Nuclear War," 
Everything seems to indicate that Israel ...respects much more nightmarish than WWII. 

**Advantage 3 is Terrorism**

Terrorists have a bulls-eye on TNWs in Turkey 
Aslıhan __**Tümer**__ is a disarmament campaigner for Greenpeace Turkey, 6-8-__**2006**__ [“NATO’s Nuclear Sharing and Incirlik” International Network of Engineers and Scientists Against Proliferation, http://www.inesap.org/sites/default/files/inesap_old/bulletin26/art11.htm] 
In recent months there were news ...path of peace and true security. 

**Nuclear terrorism is likely and causes global nuclear war**
Patrick __**Speice**__ is a JD Canidate February __**2006**__ Lexis 
Terrorist groups could acquire a nuclear ...conflicts will draw in the United 

**Advantage 4 is NPT**

**NPT credibility is on the brink**
Grahm __**Allison**__ is the Director at belfer Center for Science and International Affairs January and February __**2010**__ ["Nuclear Disorder: Surveying Atomic Threats" http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/19819/nuclear_disorder.html] VP 
The global nuclear order today could ...do everything feasible to prevent it. 

**TNW removal strengthens NPT**
John __**Avery**__ is an Associate Professor of Theoretical Chemistry at the University of Copenhagen 1-22-__**2010**__ [The ways is open for a nuclear weapon free northern Europe http://www.active-nonviolency.org/?p=196] VP 
The strongest argument for the removal ...NWFZ’s are steps along the road. 

**NPT collapse leads to proliferation which would go nuclear**
Harold __**Muller**__ is the Director of the Peace Research Institure Franfurt in Germany and a professor of IR at Frankfurt University __**2008**__ [The Future of Nuclear Weapons in an Interdependent World pg 63-75] VP 
The NPT is the cornerstone of ...of access are available to terrorists 

**Further proliferation guarantees nuclear war – the logic of deterrence doesn’t apply**
Henery A. __**Kissinger**__, __**2009**__ ( “Our Nuclear Nightmare,” Newsweek, 153:7, 2/16) 
More than 200 years ago, ...overwhelming. How will publics react? 

**Contention 5 is Solvency**

**Unilateral TNW removal jump-starts US-Russian relations and triggers Russian transparency**
Brian G. __**Polser**__ Air Force Major, Master's in National Security Affairs from the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School September __**2004**__ [“Theater Nuclear Weapons in Europe: The Contemporary Debate,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA427697&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf] VP 
U.S. theater nuclear ...in the current international nonproliferation effort. 

**Eliminating TNWs is key to Russian TNW cuts- US must act first**
Hans M. __**Kristensen**__ is the director, Nuclear Information Project, Federation of American 
Why NATO and the United States ...of why this is the case. 

**TNW removal prevents terrorist use of nuclear weapons**
Mustafa __**Kibaroğlu**__, assistant professor in the Department of International Relations of Bilkent University in Ankara, where he teaches arms control, disarmament, non-proliferation, and international security, Dec __**05**__ (only date given) [Isn’t it Time to Say Farewell to Nukes in Turkey?,http://mustafakibaroglu.com/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderfiles/Kibaroglu-EuropeanSecurity-USnukesTurkey-December2005.pdf] 
However, these should not be ...they may be deployed or stockpiled. 

**Removing TNWs unilaterally would prevent proliferation**
Bob van der __**Zwaan**__ is a senior scientist at the Energy research Centre of the Netherlands January __**2009**__ [Nuclear Weapons in Europe: Time for Disarmament?, http://www.pugwash.org/reports/nw/time_for_disarmament.htm] VP 
Some may argue that withdrawing the ...or non-nuclear weapon states. 

**Removing TNWs removes the primary justification for Iranian proliferation restoring Turkish diplomacy**
Mustafa __**Kibaroglu**__ teaches courses on arms control and disarmament in the Department of International Relations at Bilkent University in Ankara, Turkey and was a Joint Research Fellow at the Harvard University Belfer Center's Project on Managing the Atom/Science, Technology, and Public Policy Program and International Security Program, November/December __**2007**__ [A Turkish Nuclear Turnaround, http://www.mustafakibaroglu.com/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderfiles/Kibaroglu-Bulletin-USnukesTurkey-NovDev2007.pdf] 
However, the tide has turned ...initiative could help lead the way. 

===2AC Blocks=== 
====Consult NATO 2AC==== 


**NATO says no to Turkey- too scared to say yes**
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**__NewYork Times,__** 4/22/**__10,__** [“U.S. Resists Push by Allies for Tactical Nuclear Cuts” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/04/23/world/europe/23diplo.html] </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">But other NATO members, including ...Kaliningrad region, close to Poland. </span>

**Consultation will take months—empirically proven**
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**__BBC__** International Reports 6-26-200**__2__** [Lexis] </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">The US president also spoke about ...main sponsor of the peace negotiations </span>

**Consultation spurs inter-branch conflict**
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">David **__Newsom__**, Professor of Diplomacy @ the University of Virgina, **__1992,__** The Allies and Arms Control, Edited by Hampson, Von Riekhoff and Roper, p. 282 </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">The reluctance of an administration to ...cause serious executive-legislative tensions. </span>

**Inter-branch conflict destroys US foreign policy makes the alliance impossible**
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Linda S. **__Jamison__**, Deputy Director of Governmental Relations @ CSIS, Spring 19**__93__**, Executive-Legislative Relations after the Cold War, Washington Quarterly, v.16, n.2, p. 189 </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Indeed there are very few domestic ...beyond the executive branch (Mann 1990, 28-29). </span>

====Start 2AC==== 


<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**START won’t pass: Republicans don’t want to give Obama a win** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**__The Economist__**, authoritative weekly newspaper focusing on international politics and business news and opinion, **__9/23__**/2010 [“Just do it: The case for early ratification of the New START treaty”, http://www.economist.com/node/17093475?story_id=17093475&fsrc=rss (SSU)] </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">The case against New START is ...on this over the next decade). </span>

<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**START won’t pass: Republicans stalling** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**__The Economist__**, authoritative weekly newspaper focusing on international politics and business news and opinion, **__9/23__**/2010 [“Just do it: The case for early ratification of the New START treaty”, http://www.economist.com/node/17093475?story_id=17093475&fsrc=rss (SSU)] </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">FEW people were excited by the ...be even less inclined towards bipartisanship.) </span>

<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**Winners win** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Andrew **__Lee 2005__** [“Invest or Spend? Political Capital and Statements of Administration Policy in the First Term of the George W. Bush Presidency,” Georgia Political Science Association Conference Proceedings, http://a-s.clayton.edu/trachtenberg/2005%20Proceedings%20Lee.pdf] </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">To accrue political capital, the ...president assumes a return on investment. </span>

<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**Political capital is irrelevant – empirically proven** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Jon R **__Bond__**. and Richard **__Fleisher__**, professor in Political Science - Texas A&M and Professor in Political Science. Fordham - 19**__96__**. ["The President in Legislation”] </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">In sum, the evidence presented ...studies demonstrating the importance of skills </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Rebeccah **__Heinrichs__**, adjunct fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, and a former military legislative assistant for House Armed Services Committee member Trent Franks, 6/17/**__10__** [“Hearing on what START treaty means for missile defense” The Hill] </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Despite Obama administration officials’ original claims ...said to us amounts to this.” </span>

<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**Start kills missile defense – if it doesn’t the Russians will pull out.** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Rebeccah **__Heinrichs__**, adjunct fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, and a former military legislative assistant for House Armed Services Committee member Trent Franks, 6/17/**__10__** [“Hearing on what START treaty means for missile defense” The Hill] </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Despite Obama administration officials’ original claims ...said to us amounts to this.” </span>





=Negative= 
==Kritiks== 
===Security K=== 


<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**The Aff’s Harms are inherently subjective - their construction of threats marginalize others to legitimize violence** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">David, **__Grondin__** , master of pol sci and PHD of political studies @ U of Ottowa,**__2004__** “(Re) Writing the “National Security State”: How and Why Realists (Re)Built the(ir) Cold War,” online @ http://www.er.uqam.ca/nobel/ieim/IMG/pdf/rewriting_national_security_state.pdf </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Adopting a more critical stance, ...very conditions of existence are generated18. </span>

<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**Security is constructed, not natural. The rhetoric of impending death is used to justify astonishing violence. Whole populations are eliminated in the name of security.** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">David **__Campbell__,** professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle. Writing Security, **__1998__.** (199 – 202) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Security and subjectivity are intrinsically linked...Foreign Policy are all a part. </span>

<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**Reject the Affirmatives Logic of Security, This Allows For Actual Political Thought - Accepting Their Descriptions and Responses Colonizes The Debate** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Mark **__Neocleous__**, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, **__‘8__** [Critique of Security, 185-6] </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">The only way out of such ...brave enough to return the gift."' </span>



===Global Local K=== 


<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**The affirmatives advocacy of decreasing military presence from a distant, removed standpoint cedes responsibility to higher powers and reinforces the viewpoint of globalism that obliterates any chance for real change.** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**__Nayar 99__** (Jayan Nayar**,** School of Law, University of Warwick, “SYMPOSIUM: RE-FRAMING INTERNATIONAL LAW FOR THE 21ST CENTURY: Orders of Inhumanity,” Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems, Fall, 19**99**, NM, lexis) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">To some, those who might ...to lament the resulting dashed hopes. </span>

<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**Reinforcing the order of top down solutions and the global ideology legitimizes perpetual warfare and endless violence in the name of accomplishing the end goal.** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**__Nayar 99__** (Jayan Nayar**,** School of Law, University of Warwick, “SYMPOSIUM: RE-FRAMING INTERNATIONAL LAW FOR THE 21ST CENTURY: Orders of Inhumanity,” Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems, Fall, 19**99**, NM, lexis) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Yet, this proclaimed "truth..."untruth," superstition and propaganda. </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;"> **﻿**</span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**The alternative: Reject the affirmative’s appeal to global order. This action refuses to engage in a subservient relationship to broader powers and opens up space for personal reordering.** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**__Nayar 99__** (Jayan Nayar**,** School of Law, University of Warwick, “SYMPOSIUM: RE-FRAMING INTERNATIONAL LAW FOR THE 21ST CENTURY: Orders of Inhumanity,” Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems, Fall, 19**99**, NM, lexis) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">We are today bombarded by ..., the essential message of Mahatmas. </span>
==Counterplans== 


===<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Consult NATO CP</span>=== 
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**Withdrawal absent consultation crushes the alliance** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Simon **__Koschut 10__**, <span style="color: black;">Assistant Professor for North American foreign and security policy at the John-F. Kennedy Institute at Free University Berlin </span>1/15/**__10__**, Simon, Spiegel Online International, “How To Get Out Without Sacrificing Afghanistan’s Instability”, <span style="color: black;">http://www.spiegel.de/international/germany/0,1518,672228,00.html</span> MEF) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Critical to the successful completion of ...out-of-area operations. </span>

<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**Only prior binding consultation solves** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">James **__Goldgeier__,** adjunct senior fellow @ Institute for European Studies **__and__** Elizabeth Sherwood-**__Randall__** adjunct senior fellow for alliance relations @ Stanford University**,** 2/18/**__05__** FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">MR. GOLDGEIER: Well, ..., in capitals and at NATO. </span>

<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">**Alliance cohesion is key to maintaining global order – US is facing power challenges and must rely on European allies to deter threats** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">Zbigniew **__Brezezinski__**, former national security advisor, September/October **__2009__** “An Agenda for NATO”, //Foreign Affairs//, page lexis </span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 539.5pt;">The basic challenge that NATO now ...States and the West more generally. </span>





[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]