[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Japan 1AC - Greenhill== 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">__Plan:__ The United States federal government should close all of its military bases in Okinawa.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Currently the US bases 75% of its military presence in Japan on Okinawa. The military presence requires masculinity and this spills over - they utilize hyper-masculine culture to justify systematic gendered violence**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Gwyn **__Kirk__** and Carolyn Bowen **__Francis__**, **__2000__** (Kirk - Ph.D. is visiting faculty in Women’s and Gender Studies at University of Oregon (2009-10) and a founder member of Women for Genuine Security, Francis- one of the founding members of Okinawan Women Act Against Military Violence, “Redefining Security: Women Challenge U.S. Military Policy and Practice in East Asia” //Berkeley Women's Law Journal// 15 Berkeley Women's L.J. (2000) http://heinonline.org/HOL/Page?handle=hein.journals/berkwolj15&div=11&g_sent=1&collection=journals#247)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Many of the…in the military.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**The Japanese state exploits its local communities to service the US military bases – all in the name of preserving national security.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__Kirk & Feffer, 2008__** (Gwyn, policy and research analyst with the Global Fund for Women and a Foreign Policy In Focus columnist & John, author of several books and numerous articles. He has been a Writing Fellow at Provisions Library in Washington, DC and a PanTech fellow in Korean Studies at Stanford University. He is a former associate editor of //World Policy Journal//. He has worked as an international affairs representative in Eastern Europe and East Asia for the American Friends Service Committee. He has studied in England and Russia, lived in Poland and Japan, and traveled widely throughout Europe and Asia. He has taught a graduate level course on international conflict at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul in July 2001 and delivered lectures at a variety of academic institutions including New York University, Hofstra, Union College, Cornell University, and Sofia University, March 14, "GENDER AND U.S. BASES IN ASIA PACIFIC", http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Military prostitution continues…in their countries.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**The importance of the US military normalizes the bases – it makes invisible the patriarchal nature of American imperialism creating gendered hierarchies which “feminize” Okinawans to make them inferior**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__Ginoza, 2005__** (Ayano, September, of Women’s Studies at Washington State University “American Village as a Space of Militarism and Tourism: U.S. Militarism, Gender Hierarchy, Class, and Race in Okinawa”)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In the same…and feminizing Okinawa.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**The imperialist ambitions of the United States will lead to endless cycles of wars**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__Foster, 2004__** (John Bellamy Foster, Professor of Sociology at University of Oregon, April 2004, “The New Age of Imperialism”, Monthly Review vol. 55 no. 3, http://www.monthlyreview.org/0703jbf.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">At the same …new global holocausts.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**US** **imperialism is a tripartite combination of imperialist thought, racial discrimination and sexual inequalities which justify the repeated sexual oppression in Japan – the hyper-sexed and submissive stereotype of Japanese women allows servicemen to justify their rapes**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__Woan, 2008__** (Sunny, a J.D. of Public Interest and Social Justice Law at Santa Clara University, 2008, “White Sexual Imperialism: A Theory of Asian Feminist Jurisprudence, http://heinonline.org/HOL/Page?handle=hein.journals/walee14&div=17&g_sent=1&collection=journals#283, pg. 286-7)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Despite significant improvements …diasporic Asian women.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Negative peace, or the absence of war, justifies structural violence and gender discrimination. Instead, we should seek a positive peace that goes beyond war between nation states – military presence in Japan is legitimized by the need to “maintain regional stability.”**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">C.J. **__Cuomo, 2009__** (“War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence” http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/cgi-bin/fulltext/121580133/HTMLSTART)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Theory that does …of large-scale violence.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**A feminist lens is critical to reveal marginalized subjects and their security - The discourse of potential danger fosters violence by preferring national security over human security, allowing sexual injustice to occur**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Maria **__Stern__**, PhD, Goteborg University, Sweden, lecturer and research fellow in the Department of Peace and Development Studies at the University of Goteborg, Sweden. She teaches at the Department of Gender Studies at the University of Goteborg, currently directing a research project “Gender in the Armed Forces: Militarism and Peace-building in Congo-Kinshasa and Mozambique, **__2006__** (“Feminist Methodologies for International Relations” edited by Brooke A. Ackerly: Assistant Professor in the Department of Political Science at Vanderbilt University, Maria Stern: Lecturer and Researcher at the Department of Peace and Development Research, Goteborg University, and Jacqui True: Senior Lecturer in the Department of Political Studies at the University of Auskland, New Zealand, 2006, Cambridge University Press, 2006,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">pg. 196)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In revisiting my …asking many them.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**The U.S. occupation of Okinawa creates space to understand imperialism – power structures in Japan perpetuate colonial dominance and act as testing grounds for militarized masculinity**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__Ginoza, 2005__** (Ayano, September, of Women’s Studies at Washington State University “American Village as a Space of Militarism and Tourism: U.S. Militarism, Gender Hierarchy, Class, and Race in Okinawa”, )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Yumiko Mikanagi, a …and trivializing processes.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Demilitarization must occur step by step**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__Ferguson and Mironesco 2008__** (Kathy E. Ferguson is a professor of gender studies at the University of Hawai’i, Monique Mironesco is a professor of Women’s Studies at the University of Hawaii (2008, Ch 16: Environmental Effects of U.S. Military Security, in Gender and Globalization in Asia and the Pacific)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Militarism often seems … to do so.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Only demilitarization in the form of full withdrawal can solve gendered violence in Japan**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__Fukumura and Matsuoka, 2009__** (Yoko Fukumura and Martha Matsuoka, ed. Janice A. Radway, doctoral student at UC Santa Cruz and assistant professor of Urban and Environmental Policy at Occidental College respectively, 2009, “Redefining Security: Okinawa Women’s Resistance to US Militarism” from American Studies, an Anthology, http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=3D9FE-UfYxEC&oi=fnd&pg=PA49&dq=okinawa+base+gender&ots=1d-LmyvBHD&sig=TouTH24YgdHc0rq_ODOlYqAw5k4#v=onepage&q=okinawa%20base%20gender&f=false)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The visibility of …or armed conflict.” (61)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Voting affirmative joins the struggle against patriarchal security - The Okinawans struggle can speak to all forms of marginalization, its resistance will be connected to global struggles. Removing troops is a rallying cry against masculine frameworks in military institutions**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__Tanji, 2003__** (Miyume, Ph.D, Professor of Political Science and International Relations at Sophia University, Australian National University, and Murdoch University, "THE ENDURING MYTH OF AN OKINAWAN STRUGGLE: THE HISTORY AND TRAJECTORY OF A DIVERSE COMMUNITY OF PROJECT", http://wwwlib.murdoch.edu.au/adt/pubfiles/adt-MU20040510.152840/02Whole.pdf, pgs. 19-20,. )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Chapter 8 focuses …global civil society.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Status quo utilitarianism assumes an utopian world that ignores the fact that instead of equalizing people, it equalizes experiences of equal magnitude – this means that the Okinawan women, who have little political power, are ignored.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__Freeman, 1994__** (Avalon Professor in the Humanities at the University of Pennsylvania, Ph.D. Harvard University, J.D. University of North Carolina (Samuel, “Utilitarianism, Deontology, and the Priority of Right,” Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 23, No. 4, Autumn, pp. 313-349, http://www.jstor.org/stable/2265463)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The inclusion of …concern and respect.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Utilitarianism today is corrupted – it ranks and commodifies people.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__Plumwood, 2002__** (Val,– Australian Research Council Fellow at University of Sydney, Environmental Culture: The ecological crisis of reason, p. 150-151)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Singer's Minimalism is …to the human. </span>


==﻿Afghanistan COIN 1AC - Grapevine== 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">There’s no scenario for withdrawal from Afghanistan – the US is fully committed to counterinsurgency </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Klein</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Journalist, Columnist, and member of the Council on Foreign Relations, **__June 24__**, 2010 (Joe, “Can Obama and Petraeus Work Together?,” //Time Magazine//, http://www.time.com/time/printout/0,8816,1999251,00.html) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">By 2009 the…until July 2011." </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">PLAN:</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan.</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">ADVANTAGE ONE IS CIVIL WAR: </span>__**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">US counterinsurgency policy is failing in Afghanistan </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Gusterson</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Professor of Anthropology and Sociology at George Mason University, with an expertise in nuclear culture and international security, **__2010__** (Hugh, “Against counter-insurgency in Afghanistan,” //The Bulletin//, July 1, http://www.aljazeerah.info/Opinion%20Editorials/2010/July/20%20o/Against%20Counterinsurgency% 20In%20Afghanistan%20By%20Jugh%20Gusterson.htm) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">However, the real…of his people. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">We control uniqueness – the situation is deteriorating now – our evidence postdates </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Nordland</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, chief foreign correspondent for //Newsweek// magazine, **__September 11__**, 2010 (Rod, “Security in Afghanistan is Deteriorating, Aid Groups Say,” //New York Times//, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/12/world/asia/12afghan.html?_r=1) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Even as more…time since 2001. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The lack of cooperation between Obama and Karzai makes counterinsurgency impossible </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Blankley</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Visiting Senior Fellow in National Security Communications at the Heritage Foundation, **__2010__** (Tony, “No Trust Between Obama and Karzai,” June 15, http://www.newsmax.com/TonyBlankley/Afghanistan-Obama-Karzai-NATO/2010/06/15/id/362060) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Since last summer…failure becomes undeniable. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">AND – this means nation building cannot succeed – the best policy option is to decentralize Afghanistan </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Biddle</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Roger Hertog Senior Fellow for Defense Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, et al, **__2010__** (Stephen, Fotini Christia, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and J. Alexander Thier, Director for Afghanistan and Pakistan at the U.S. Institute of Peace, “Defining Success in Afghanistan – What Can the United States Accept?,” July 20, http://www.devex.com/articles/defining-success-in-afghanistan) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The original plan…decentralized political arrangement. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Status quo policy makes civil war inevitable. Only withdrawal creates the necessary space for reconciliation – the plan is a prerequisite to any peaceful resolution** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">**Suhrke**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, political scientist and Senior Research Fellow at the Chr. Michelsen Institute in Norway, __**2010**__ (Astri, “The Case for a Light Footprint: The international project in Afghanistan,” March 17, http://www.cmi.no/file/?997) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The insurgency has…developments were going. </span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Withdrawal creates the leverage over Karzai and the Taliban necessary to spur reconciliation </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Stewart</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard University, **__2010__** (Rory, “Afghanistan: What Could Work,” //New York Review of Books//, January 14, http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">But this moderate…of that region.” </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">IN ADDITION – only decentralization solves – central governance provokes backlash and strengthens the Taliban </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Fisher</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Associate Editor of Foreign Affairs and National Security for //The Atlantic Wire//, **__2009__** (Max, “Can Warlords Save Afghanistan?,” November 18, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2009/11/can-warlords-save-afghanistan/30397) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">President Obama has…standing provincial force. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Taliban victory leads to an independent Pashtun state, an extremist takeover of Pakistan, and nuclear war </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Morgan</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, political psychologist, researcher into chaos/complexity theory, and former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, **__2007__** (Stephen John, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?,” March 5, http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">This would leave…against the US. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">ADVANTAGE TWO IS HEGEMONY: </span>__**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Counterinsurgency overstretches the military </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Dorronsoro</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Visiting Scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia, **__2010__** (Gilles, “The Case for Negotiations,” May 24, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40863) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The coalition's strategy…the U.S. military. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">It also undermines morale and readiness </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Kuhner</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, President of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal, **__2009__** (Jeffrey, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” //Washington Times//, September 7, Lexis) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">America is losing…arms of extremists. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Defense spending on Afghanistan undermines US leadership </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Norris</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Former Chief of Political Affairs for the UN Mission in Nepal, Former Director of Communications for the U.S. Deputy Secretary of State, and current Director of Enough (project of the Center for American Progress to end genocide and crimes against humanity), **__and Sweet__**, Research Associate at the Center for American Progress, **__2010__** (John and Andrew, “Less is More,” June 8, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/06/less_is_more.html) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">“If we are…our interests internationally. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Afghanistan prevents Obama’s other foreign policy initiatives </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Fernholz</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, research fellow at the New America Foundation, writing fellow at //The Prospect//, published in //The New Republic//, //The Nation//, //The Guardian//, //American Lawyer//, and //The Washington City Paper//, **__2010__** (Tim, “The Ultimate Test Case,” //The American Prospect//, March, Lexis) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The President seems…the occupying power.” </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The plan shifts military doctrine from nation building to selective engagement </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Gventer</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Senior Defense Analyst at the RAND Corporation and a former deputy assistant secretary of defense, **__2009__** (Celeste, “False Promise of ‘Counterinsurgency’,” December 1, http://www.rand.org/commentary/2009/12/01/NYT.html) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">An effort to…applying overwhelming force. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Counterinsurgency triggers public backlash and makes a precipitous withdrawal inevitable – only a limited policy can keep long-term presence </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Simon</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, **__and Stevenson__**, Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, **__2009__** (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?,” //Survival//, Vol. 51, No. 5, pg. 62-63) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">It follows that…in the region. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">No risk of offense – staying in Afghanistan is comparatively worse for credibility </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Innocent</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institution, **__and Carpenter__**, Vice President for Defense and Foreign Policy Studies at the Cato Institution, **__2009__** (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Former national security…than would withdrawal. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Overstretch is the most probable internal link to collapse of US primacy </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Layne</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Chair in Intelligence and National Security at Texas A&M University’s George H. W. Bush School of Government and Public Service, **__2009__** (Christopher, “The Waning of U.S. Hegemony – Myth or Reality?,” //International Security//, Vol. 34, No. 1, Summer) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">U.S. strategic retrenchment…a similar process. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">US primacy solves every impact </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Thayer</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, **__2006__** (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” //The National Interest//, December, Lexis) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Throughout history, peace…of the United States. </span>


===1AC US-Russian Relations Add-On - St. Mark's, Round 1 vs. Nevada Union FL=== 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Presence in Afghanistan leads to confrontation with Russia</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Cullison and Dreazen</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, staff writers for //The Wall Street Journal//, **__2009__** (Alan and Yochi, “Moscow Moves to Counter U.S. Power in Central Asia,” February 5, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123378027003448977.html) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Russia is reasserting...in place today. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">US-Russia war leads to extinction</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Helfand and Pastore</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility, **__2009__** (Ira and John O., “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat,” March 31, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">President Obama and...in place today. </span>

===1AC Economy Add-On - St. Mark's, Round 3 vs. Greenhill BS=== 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Presence in Afghanistan lowers domestic spending and kills the economy </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Swanson</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, former coordinator for ACORN and author of //Daybreak: Undoing the Imperial Presidency and Forming a More Perfect Union//, **__2010__** (David, “Afghan Escalation Funding: More War, Fewer Jobs, Poor Excuses,” http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/05/11-8) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">And remember what ... more rapid recovery. </span>


==Afghanistan Butler 1AC== 


**On September 11th, 2001, the United States lost more than just 3,000 lives and two skyscrapers—it lost its sense of invulnerability. 9/11 shattered our illusion of American empire and exposed our First World safety as nothing more than a façade. Unfortunately, subsequent US foreign policy has attempted to re-claim our monopoly on violence by lashing out to make us feel safer.**
**Butler**, Maxine Elliott Professor in the Rhetoric and Comparative Literature departments at the University of California, Berkeley, **2004** (Judith, //Precarious Life//, pg. 39-41) 
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">Most Americans have probably…the politics of response. </span>

**The war in Afghanistan is a symptom of America’s “superpower syndrome”: the illusion that invulnerability is within reach so long as we stay the course. Sustaining this illusion requires increasingly draconian actions that destabilize the world.**
**Lifton**, American psychiatrist, Visiting Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, **2003** (Robert Jay, //Superpower Syndrome: America’s Apocalyptic Confrontation with the World//, pg. 129-130) 
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">Ironically, superpower syndrome … dangerously destabilized. </span>

**Human precariousness cannot be solved by occupying Afghanistan or bombing “Islamic extremists”. Attempts to master the world lead to forms of domination that cast other lives as destructible and “ungrievable”.**
**Butler**, Maxine Elliott Professor in the Rhetoric and Comparative Literature departments at the University of California, Berkeley, **2009** (Judith, //Frames of War: Precarious Life, Grievable Life//, pg. 27-32) 
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">These reflections **have …. to protect the lives of “the living.”** </span>

**Ungrievable lives are also //expendable// lives – our refusal to truly mourn for the other sustains an endless cycle of violence.**
**Butler**, Maxine Elliott Professor in the Rhetoric and Comparative Literature departments at the University of California, Berkeley, **2004** (Judith, //Precarious Life//, pg. 37-38) 
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">Dehumanization’s relation to discourse … its allies have killed. </span>

**Therefore, we advocate that the United States federal government should completely withdraw its military and police presence from Afghanistan.**

**We should resist calls to stay in Afghanistan – our affirmative pulls the emergency brake on the rush to secure ourselves through externalizing vulnerability. By breaking the frames through which we construct war’s supposed necessity, we can embrace non-violence and the contingent vulnerability that constitutes all of us.**
**Butler**, Maxine Elliott Professor in the Rhetoric and Comparative Literature departments at the University of California, Berkeley, **2009** (Judith, //Frames of War: Precarious Life, Grievable Life//, pg. 181-184) 
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">Non-violence thus would … wrought time and again. </span>

**When faced with acts of violence, we should resist the urge to retaliate with more violence. Our affirmative represents an embracement of our contingent vulnerability—this is critical to building a community of non-violence and understanding.**
**Butler**, Maxine Elliott Professor in the Rhetoric and Comparative Literature departments at the University of California, Berkeley, **and Stauffer**, Assistant Professor of Philosophy at John Jay College, CUNY, **2003** (Judith and Jill, Interview with Judith Butler by Jill Stauffer, //Believer//, March 22, http://www.believermag.com/issues/200305/?read=interview_butler) 
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">For instance, when … pretty quickly, didn’t we? </span>

**Fear and insecurity justify our military presence in Afghanistan – their “experts” who predict catastrophe after withdrawal are only interested in sustaining status quo militarism. History is on our side; the sky will not fall.**
**Englehardt**, co-founder of the American Empire Project, runs the Nation Institute’s TomDispatch.com, author of //The End of Victory Culture//, a history of the Cold War and beyond, and //The American Way of War//, **2010** (Tom, “Why We Won’t Leave Afghanistan or Iraq,” //Middle East Online//, April 25, http://www.middle-east-online.com/english/?id=38613) 
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">Yes, we could. … way we could go. </span>

**We should critically examine the myths used to justify American presence in Afghanistan – these myths help to construct threats in the region.**
**Crowe**, Graduate Student in Political Science at York University, **2007** (Lori, “The ‘Fuzzy Dream’: Discourse, Historical Myths, and Militarized (In)Security – Interrogating Dangerous Myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’,” http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf) 
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">The historical production … Day is a celebration.”57 </span>


==Hillman 1AC== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Our thinking of war is mediated by science and rationality: war is reviewed and studied by historians, predicted by think tanks, and statistically analyzed by generals, politicians, and the media. Yet the rational sciences cannot explain our inexplicable love for war or the collective force that drives nations to conflict. War is a primordial component of being and existence, and its subliminal beauty and irrational terror can only be understood through an archetypal psychology. Any phenomenon to be understood must be sympathetically imagined – this means we must go to war to understand its incalculable madness.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hillman, American psychologist, 2004 (James, A terrible love of war, pg. 1-9)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">One sentence in … leap into myth.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Therefore: The United States federal government should move all of its military presence in South Korea to north of the Korean Demilitarized Zone.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This would probably result in an all-out war – any encroachment of the Demilitarized Zone would guarantee shenanigans</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CNN, 2010 (“North Korea wars it will meet war with ‘all-out war’,” May 27, http://articles.cnn.com/2010-05-27/world/north.korea.south.korea.warning_1_north-korea-military-demarcation-line-kcna?_s=PM:WORLD)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">North Korea reacted to … KCNA news agency. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Our 1AC is a call to imagine the unimaginable: to imagine ourselves going to war. Imagination is at the heart of our terrible love of war and our desire to repress it by seeking a peace that is terminally elusive. If our goal is to truly understand war in all of its beauty and horror, we must acknowledge our own love affair with violence.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hillman, American psychologist, 2004 (James, A terrible love of war, pg. 213-214)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Aesthetic intensity … fields of battle.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We are an attempt to revision the psyche and overcome the ignorance of the soul. The psyche must be deconstructed to illuminate the archetypes that structure our interpretations of the world. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hillman, American psychologist, 1975 (James, Re-Visioning Psychology, pg. 125-127)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The idea of … insighting for it. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">War cannot be understood by scientific facts and causal explanations – understanding war requires psychology</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hillman, American psychologist, 2004 (James, A terrible love of war, pg. 9-11)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The explanations given … before or since.”</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Only entering into the imagination of war allows us to find a means to understand and manage our terrible love of war. The rush to avoid war at all costs results in domination and suppression of dissent.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hillman, American psychologist, 2004 (James, A terrible love of war, pg. 204-205)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">So, second, … we seek escape.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Attempts to maintain peace and security are nothing more than regulatory servitude. We must always keep war on our minds to avoid psychic numbing.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hillman, American psychologist, 2004 (James, A terrible love of war, pg. 35-37)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The upshot of … life is “short.”</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And psychology is a prerequisite to all other discussions. All knowledge reflects psychic premises at a foundational level.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hillman, American psychologist, 1975 (James, Re-Visioning Psychology, pg. 130-132)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0.25in;">In affirming psychologizing, … and behavior.</span>





=Negative= 

==**__Kritiks__**== 

===**__Heidegger K__**=== 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The affirmative constructs death as an event so that it can be viewed as an external relation to ourselves that we have power over. In reality, death is the most internal part of our own existence. We were all sentenced to death the moment we were born.</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Stambaugh, 1996</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Joan, Professor of Philosophy at the City University of New York, translator of Being and Time, “Heidegger on Death” </span></span>[[http://www.gis.net/~tbirch/heidweb.htm]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; line-height: normal;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Dasein as Care is … indefiniteness of death. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Understanding ones own death allows the individual to become free from the constraints of society and others, and in effect, become themselves. It also opens up spaces for the understanding of how to relate to others, since the individual now knows they will die as well. This new conception of interaction will turn case.</span>** </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative for their rhetoric of distancing death from the individual and enter into thought of individual and personalized death. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Stambaugh, 1996</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Joan, Professor of Philosophy at the City University of New York, translator of Being and Time, “Heidegger on Death” </span></span>[[http://www.gis.net/~tbirch/heidweb.htm]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; line-height: normal;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Certainly we should …through mutual regard. </span>


===__Butler K__=== 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The War on Terror re-affirms the pre-9/11 conception of America as global hegemon. Instead of embracing its vulnerability, the affirmative externalizes this vulnerability in an attempt to secure itself. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Butler</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Maxine Elliott Professor in the Rhetoric and Comparative Literature departments at the University of California, Berkeley, **__2004__** (Judith, Precarious Life, pg. 40-41) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">I condemn on ... “other to” itself. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">But vulnerability is inherent to the human condition, and any attempts to master our vulnerability only fuel violence </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Butler</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Maxine Elliott Professor in the Rhetoric and Comparative Literature departments at the University of California, Berkeley, **__2004__** (Judith, Precarious Life, pg. 28-29) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Mourning, fear, anxiety…to this condition? </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is to do nothing in the face of terrorism. Embracing our contingent vulnerability is critical to building a community of non-violence and understanding. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Butler</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Maxine Elliott Professor in the Rhetoric and Comparative Literature departments at the University of California, Berkeley, **__and Stauffer__**, Assistant Professor of Philosophy at John Jay College, CUNY, **__2003__** (Judith and Jill, Interview with Judith Butler by Jill Stauffer, Believer, March 22, http://www.believermag.com/issues/200305/?read=interview_butler) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">For instance, when …quickly, didn’t we? </span>


===__Schmitt K__=== 


<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal;">The affirmative’s intervention to prevent “human rights violations” upholds a Western global liberalism, which forces integration on those who choose autonomy. Enemies are labeled as outlaws of humanity, constructed as threats to universal peace, and stripped of their right to difference and disagreement. Without the need to respect antagonism, we’re justified in annihilating those who oppose our ideals.</span>** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Odysseos</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, Department of Politics and International Studies, Faculty of Law and Social Sciences, University of London, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">2004</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Louiza, “Carl Schmitt and Martin Heidegger on the Line(s) of Cosmopolitanism and the War on Terror,” Conference on the International Political Thought of Carl Schmitt, September 9-11) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The second criticism…humanity and cosmopolitanism. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">In the past, friend/enemy distinctions were respected and maintained, but the affirmative’s attempt to create a universal standard of proper behavior expels those who are deemed violators of human rights. Their refusal to tolerate the crimes of these outlaws of humanity justifies wars against the uncivilized other. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Rasch</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Professor and Chair of Germanic Studies at Indiana University – Bloomington, **__2003__** (William, “Human Rights as Geopolitics: Carl Schmitt and the Legal Form of American Supremacy,” //Cultural Critique//, No. 54, Spring) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In the past…of liberalism itself. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The attempt to secure the liberal humanitarian order from outside threats justifies endless wars to exterminate the nonhuman enemy. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Zhang</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, Professor of East Asian Studies and Comparative Literature at New York University, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">2004</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Xudong, “Multiplicity or Heterogeneity? The Cultural-Political Paradox in the Age of Globalization,” //Cultural Critique//, Issue 58, Fall, pg. 30-55, Project Muse) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">One of the…of the political. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative. We must relinquish the search for a universal humanitarianism and cosmopolitan peace in favor of a politics of enmity and respect for difference. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Rasch</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">, Professor and Chair of Germanic Studies at Indiana University – Bloomington, **__2005__** (William, “Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle,” //South Atlantic Quarterly//, 104:2, pg. 253-262) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">But how are…of absolute exclusion. </span>


===__﻿Okinawa K__=== 


<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The Okinawan struggle is appropriated into other more global movements of power – in the affirmatives attempt to elevate and isolate their circumstance as an inroad into greater issues, they ignore critical local diversities, entrenching the power within the system of the Self and the Other, while simultaneously shattering diversity beyond any political power. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Masamichi S. **__Inoue__**, Assistant Professor in the Department of Modern and Classical Languages, Literatures, and Cultures at the University of Kentucky, **__2007__** (Book, “Okinawa and the U.S. military: identity making in the Age of Globalization” Columbia University Press) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">However, anthropology’s post-modern/colonial/structural…radical political thrusts (the first problem). </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Local, Japanese, and American treatments of Okinawa essentialize and valorize a distinct culture, constructing anti-base movements and military presence as obstacles to an ideal past while ignoring their role in Okinawan present and future. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Masamichi S. **__Inoue__**, Assistant Professor in the Department of Modern and Classical Languages, Literatures, and Cultures at the University of Kentucky, **__2007__** (Book, “Okinawa and the U.S. military: identity making in the Age of Globalization” Columbia University Press) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Thus far, the… explicated and critiqued. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative to open up a plurality of voices in the public sphere </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Masamichi S. **__Inoue__**, Assistant Professor in the Department of Modern and Classical Languages, Literatures, and Cultures at the University of Kentucky, **__2007__** (Book, “Okinawa and the U.S. military: identity making in the Age of Globalization” Columbia University Press) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">I now propose…freedom and peace. </span>


===**Srnicek K**=== 

**The 1AC attempts to reduce as many effects to as few causes as possible by creating a simplistic and enclosed chain reaction of events culminating in a terminal impact. This reliance on reductionist theories of reality makes their explanations of the world useless for policymaking and produces more harm than good.** 
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Srnicek</span>__**, PhD candidate in International Relations at the London School of Economics, currently working on dissertation demonstrating the significance of networks for understanding contemporary world politics, written for a number of journals, magazines and websites, editor for the forthcoming //The Speculative Turn: Continental Materialism and Realism//, **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2010</span>__** (Nick, “Conflict Networks: Collapsing the Global into the Local,” //Journal of Critical Globalisation Studies//, Issue 2) 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">This leads us … with the local. </span>

**Reliance on predictive assumptions about the nature of international politics obliterates human agency** 
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Bleiker</span>__**, Senior Lecturer and Coordinator of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at the University of Queensland, **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2000</span>__** (Roland, //Popular Dissent, Human Agency, and Global Politics//, pg. 48-49) 
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The very notion of </span>__****__…__**ensuing political practices. </span>

**Our alternative to the 1AC’s macro-functionalist thinking is to utilize actor-network theory. Rethinking on a micro level exposes the non-linear and contingent nature of conflict causality.** 
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Srnicek</span>__**, PhD candidate in International Relations at the London School of Economics, currently working on dissertation demonstrating the significance of networks for understanding contemporary world politics, written for a number of journals, magazines and websites, editor for the forthcoming The Speculative Turn: Continental Materialism and Realism, **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2007</span>__** (Nick, Assemblage Theory, Complexity and Contentious Politics: The Political Ontology of Gilles Deleuze, MA thesis, The University of Western Ontario, http://lse.academia.edu/NickSrnicek/Papers/92005/Assemblage_Theory_Complexity_and_Contentious_Politics_The_Political_Ontology_of_Gilles_Deleuze) 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">With our overview … to avoid this hindrance. </span>




==On - Case== 
===**__Drones__**=== 
UCAVs are key to the ENTIRE MILITARY

[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj02/sum02/chapman.html]]



<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">The Department of … data becomes available.</span>


Design.
UCAV proponents …such an environment.



<span style="display: block; font-family: Geneva;">[[http://www.csmonitor.com/World/2009/0522/p12s01-wogn.html]]</span>
They're particularly useful ….airstrikes in Pakistan.

**Target killing key to stopping terrorism**

New York Times, 7/31/2010, Targeted Killing Is New U.S. Focus in Afghanistan By [[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/c/helene_cooper/index.html?inline=nyt-per|HELENE COOPER]] and [[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/l/mark_landler/index.html?inline=nyt-per|MARK LANDLER]] Published: http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/01/world/asia/01afghan.html?_r=2&hp=&pagewanted=all

Instead, what has …
from the insurgency.

==Counterplans== 
===__Zero-Casualty CP__=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should publically adopt a Zero-Civilian Casualty doctrine. It should coordinate selected military operations with the Afghan Ministry of Defense and the Afghan National Army and establish a Status of Forces Agreement with the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan to include a long-term presence agreement. It should allocate funds to a North Atlantic Treaty Organization collateral damage compensation fund.**

**A Zero-Civilian Casualty approach is the internal link to counterinsurgency without withdrawing troops**
Karl F.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Inderfurth</span>
, a professor at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, served as U.S. assistant secretary of state for South Asian affairs from 1997 to 2001, May 29, 20
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span>
, “Losing the 'other war' in Afghanistan” [[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/29/opinion/29iht-edinderfurth.1.5912726.html]] TP
WASHINGTON — Controversy rages over …
**__have an equivalent program.__**





===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**CP - Loya Jirga Enforcement**</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should enforce the recommendations presented by the June National Consultative Peace Jirga (Loya Jirga) into its policies for Afghanistan.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">What is necessary now is an enforcement of the recent Jirga. The suggestions should be followed by the US to ensure peace and cooperation from the international community to ensure Afghanistan’s stability – the key is the combination of soft and hard factors from the US</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Dr. Hubertus</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Hoffman, Jun 8</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">, 2010, He was Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic & International Studies (CSIS), Georgetown University. Dr. Hoffmann holds a Ph.D. in Political Science with "summa cum laude" (Prof. Karl Dietrich Bracher, University of Bonn, Germany) and is a lawyer as well. He is a reserve officer in the German Army (Field Artillery), President and Founder World Security Network Foundation: “Support the Proposals of the Afghanistan Peace Jirga!”</span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 10px; padding-top: 0px;">[[http://www.worldsecuritynetwork.com/printArticle3.cfm?article_id=18315]]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">From June 2nd …</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and hard factors</span>__**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">.</span>



**Robowars**
[[#_Toc142231782]]
[[#_Toc142231783]]
Modern societies are …phenomenon of technique.


[[#_Toc142231784]]
[[#_Toc142231785]]
A senior Iranian …engineer the system.


[[#_Toc271470999]][[#_Toc142231786]]
[[#_Toc142231787]][[http://www.slate.com/id/2254374/#Return]]

Nor are these weapons …. into the future.

==Topicality== 
===<span style="color: #000000;">T – Substantial 25%</span>=== 

A. Interpretation – a substantial reduction is 25% - military regulations prove.
<span style="color: #000000; display: block;">Major Steven N. Tomanelli et al, has served as a Judge Advocate in the United States Air Force, Chief of Acquisition and Fiscal Law for the Air Force s Air Mobility Command, and Senior DoD Counsel for the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO), Army Lawyer, February 1994, Lexis Academic
1. Regulatory Changes--Notification … termination or reduction.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; display: block;">Two, Presence is measured by the number of military personnel in a region
Poon et al, 6 - Department of Geography, University at Buffalo-SUNY, Buffalo (Jessie, “The role of US defense exports in Asia Pacific regionalism,” Political Geography 25 (2006) 715-734, Science Direct)
The major source …in the region.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; display: block;">B. Violation – The aff reduces less than 25% of current U.S. military presence</span>

US troops comprise of 100,000 troops in Afghanistan
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AP 08/27</span>
<span style="color: black; display: block;">[Christopher Bodeen, Associated Press Writer, Friday, 2010, Associated Press Writer Amir Shah contributed, </span>
[[http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20100827/ap_on_re_as/as_afghanistan]]
**__U.S. troops make …__**
<span style="color: black; display: block;">is most deeply entrenched. </span>


The number of drone aircrafts in Afganistan is 40

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Christian Science Monitor, 03/02</span>
<span style="color: black; display: block;">, 2010 [Gordon Lubold, staff writer for the Christian Science Monitor, “</span>
As drones multiply in Iraq and Afghanistan, so do their uses” [[http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Military/2010/0302/As-drones-multiply-in-Iraq-and-Afghanistan-so-do-their-uses]]]
The Air Force will …”quality of life” data.


===**T - CIA**=== 
The CIA has drone operatives in Afghanistan
<span style="color: #000000; display: block;">Jane Meyer 10/26/09 “The Predator War” The New Yorker http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2009/10/26/091026fa_fact_mayer</span>

<span style="color: #000000; display: block;">The Predators in … him under cover. </span>

<span style="color: #000000; display: block;">The CIA is distinct from the military
New York Times, Christopher Drew 2/19/10 “Drones Are Playing a Growing Role in Afghanistan” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/02/20/world/asia/20drones.html?_r=1&th&emc=th</span>

<span style="color: #000000; display: block;">They are mostly … Afghanistan this year. </span>


Round 3

===T - Reduce=== 
A. Reduce means to immediately diminish in size. It can’t refer to a potential future acceptance or increase
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Guy, 91</span>
- Circuit Judge (TIM BOETTGER, BECKY BOETTGER, individually and as Next Friend for their Minor Daughter, AMANDA BOETTGER, Plaintiffs-Appellees, v. OTIS R. BOWEN, Secretary of Health and Human Services (89-1832); and C. PATRICK BABCOCK, Director, Michigan Department of Social Services (89-1831), Defendants-Appellants Nos. 89-1831, 89-1832 UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT 923 F.2d 1183; 1991 U.S. App. LEXIS 671)


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in;">The district court…9th ed. 1985). </span>