[[media type="custom" key="8253650" width="10" height="10"]]

[[toc]]


=Affirmative= 

==Contention 1 is: "Menz Are Stronger"== 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**The US maintains more than 70,000 troops in Japan. Soldiers are constantly impressed with an idea of militarized masculinity which drives them to aggression that is released on and exploits the people of Japan. There is a fundamental problem with our relations with Japan; simply changing the Status of Forces Agreement can’t solve.**</span>
**Kirk 99** (Gwyn, New Jersey Chair in Women’s Studies, PhD from University of London in Sociology, “Women and the US military in East Asia,” March 1, 1999, Co-authors: Rachel Cornwell, Margo Okazawa-Rey, Edited by Martha Honey and Tom Barry, http://www.lightparty.com/Politics/ForeignPolicy/WomanInMilitary.html)

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**Prostitution and rape are condoned and even encouraged in order to promote a masculinity deep rooted in a patriarchal mindset.**</span>
**Tanaka 02** (Yuki, research professor at the Hiroshima Peace Institute and coordinator of japanfocus.org, she has also published a bunch of books, and he has a PhD, but I couldn’t find a university name, "Japan’s Comfort Women: Sexual Slavery and Prostitution During World War II and the US Occupation", pages 178 and 179)

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**The rape of Japanese women reinforces the gendered relationship between the US and Japan. The US adopts a patriarchal “rescue” paradigm where we build colonies by imposing our values on other nations. We feminize subject nations construct them as in need of protection. This justifies the exploitation of the land and women’s bodies. We attempt to assimilate other nations like Iraq and Afghanistan without recognizing the chain of events that started in East Asia.**</span>
**Kirk & Feffer 8** (*Gwyn, New Jersey Chair in Women’s Studies, PhD from University of London in Sociology, policy and research analyst with the Global Fund for Women and a Foreign Policy In Focus columnist & John, author of several books and numerous articles. He has been a Writing Fellow at Provisions Library in Washington, DC and a PanTech fellow in Korean Studies at Stanford University. He is a former associate editor of //World Policy Journal//. He has worked as an international affairs representative in Eastern Europe and East Asia for the American Friends Service Committee. He has studied in England and Russia, lived in Poland and Japan, and traveled widely throughout Europe and Asia. He has taught a graduate level course on international conflict at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul in July 2001 and delivered lectures at a variety of academic institutions including New York University, Hofstra, Union College, Cornell University, and Sofia University, March 14, "GENDER AND U.S. BASES IN ASIA PACIFIC", http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific)

**Representations of war as a bounded, temporal event sanitize peacetime militarism and produce a politics of crises control that is incapable of dealing with the complex societal interconnections that produce violence. The affirmative questions the US’ underlying motives thereby preventing the recurrence of such situations.**
**Cuomo 96** (Chris Cuomo is a theorist, activist, and artist, Professor of Philosophy and Women’s Studies, and Director of the Institute for Women’s Studies at the University of Georgia. Chris holds a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Wisconsin, Madison. She has been awarded grants from the Rockefeller Foundation, the National Science Foundation, and the Charles Phelps Taft Center, “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” Hypatia, Vol. 11, No. 4, Women and Violence (Autumn, 1996), pp. 30-45 Published by: Blackwell Publishing, P. JSTOR)

**The time to act is now. Reducing troops in Japan can be the catalyst for a revived peace movement that challenges militarism and insures our survival.**
**Peace and Solidarity Commission 10 –** (6/4/10, Communist Party of the USA, “We Need a New Kind of Peace Movement,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.cpusa.org/we-need-a-new-kind-of-peace-movement/]]</span>)


**Thus the Plan:**
**The United States federal government should phase out the entirety of its military presence from Japan.**


==Contention 2 is: China doesn't want to pwn the world== 


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**The political sphere of the United States has become hyper-masculine. The pursuing of important policies is co-opted by the necessity to posture manliness, leading to inherently flawed security policies unable to guarantee genuine security.**</span>
**Enloe 04** (Cynthia, Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley, Bachelor’s, cum laude, from Connecticut College (New London), “The Curious Feminist,” UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA PRESS, 2004 by the Regents of the University of California, P.125-126)

**Specifically, the reason we maintain our military presence in Japan is to contain the threats of China and North Korea.**
**Hadar 09** (Leon, Business Times Singapore Washington correspondent, 12/15/09, “Key US allies adjust to new realities; but Japan and Turkey may not pursue an anti-American agenda or embark on a civilisational confrontation with the US”, Lexis)


<span style="line-height: normal;">**2 internal links.**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**First – China**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**China is painted as a threat not because we have an objective understanding but because it fits within our definition of ourselves and justifies US power politics. These constant predictions of war leave no choice but to prepare for war.**</span>
**Pan 04** (Chengxin, a lecturer in International Relations, educated at Peking University and the Australian National University, where he received a PhD degree in Political Science and International Relations, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics”, Alternatives, June-July, ebscohost)

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**Second – North Korea** </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**The US demonizes North Korea – they say it’s perfectly ok for the US to have thousands of nuclear weapons but if North Korea has one or two then the entire world goes to hell. Only by using discourses like the affirmative’s can we hope to create effective policy solutions**</span>
**Lal 09** (Prerna, activist, MA in IR, tenure-track professor in IR “North Korea Is Not a Threat – Unveiling Hegemonic Discourses” http://prernalal.com/2009/04/north-korea-is-not-a-threat-unveiling-hegemonic-discourses/)

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**Security discourse predicated from a fear of the other justifies flawed policies which create the very threat security analysts sought to avoid. Moreover, these discourses abolish differences inside a community that is labeled as threat, legitimating genocidal war against that community.**</span>
**Jabri 06** (Vivienne, senior lecturer in the department of war studies at Kings College and director of the IR Department “War, Security and the Liberal State” Security Dialogue 2006; 37; 47)

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**Images of threats reinforce the security dilemma between states and breed mutual antagonisms that make threat discourse self-fulfilling prophecies. Troops in Japan only insure a war with China and a nuclear exchange with North Korea. All of their authors, their supposed experts, are the reason these wars continue to occur. They preclude any possibility of escape from their nightmarish realism.**</span>
**Foster 94** (Professor at the National Defense University, Gregory, Alternatives, v. 19 n.1 p. 86-88)

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**The concept of security is a social construct. Securitization is discursively constructed because of a fundamental fear and misunderstanding of the other. The government’s securitization discourse creates a never ending cycle of threat construction, policy mistake, invariably followed by violence. Discursive practices that consolidate this cycle must be rejected.**</span>
**Grondin 04** (David, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D from the University of Ottawa, 2004 “Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17)

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**The plan solves – rejecting demonizing security discourse of hegemony enables effective policy options, acting on threats that actually threaten us, and solve state sponsored violence and potential genocides.** </span>
**Rule 10** (James B., Generally a boss… He is now Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the State University of New York, Stony Brook, however he got his PhD from Harvard, his Master’s from Oxford, and his Bachelor’s from UC Berkeley. He has held research and teaching positions at MIT; Nuffield College which is a part of Oxford; L’Université de Bordeaux; and Clare Hall, Cambridge. In January, 2007 he became Distinguished Affiliated Scholar at the Center for the Study of Law and Society at UC Berkeley. In addition, he has held year-long fellowships from the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, Stanford; the J.S. Guggenheim Foundation; the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton; and the Russell Sage Foundation. This specific article is entitled //The Military State of America and the Democratic Left//, published in “Dissent” Vol. 57 No 1, January/February 2010)


=Negative= 

Our generics are:

Consult NATO
XO
Politix
the security K

Otherwise we have case stuff, case specific DAs, A few PICs, and some impacts turns.

Hopefully we'll soon have some more exciting Ks, working on that now.