Email: [[mailto:PeninsulaLD@gmail.com|PeninsulaLD@gmail.com]][[toc]]

=September-October= 
==__Affirmative__== 

===**Aliens AC**=== 

<span style="font-size: 1em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Ought is “used to…or moral obligation”. [Dictionary.com Random House 2010. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/ought]]</span>]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="FootnoteCharacters">Desirability begs the question of the reasons we have for desiring certain ends. [Parfit, Derek. Climbing the Mountain Oxford University, Professor of Philosophy. “According to desire-based...as an end.”]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: black;">Possess is “to have as belonging to one.”</span> <span class="FootnoteCharacters">[Dictionary.com Random House 2010. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/possess]]</span>]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">The Global Security Institute defines nuclear weapons as: “A nuclear weapon is … or thermonuclear bomb).” </span><span class="FootnoteCharacters"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">[Global Security Institute. </span></span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.gsinstitute.org/dpe/docs/FactSheetWeapon.pdf]]</span><span class="FootnoteCharacters">]</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">V: M</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This gives rise to a conception of noncombatant immunity. [<span class="FootnoteCharacters">Carlino, Michael A. “On the Moral Importance of Noncombatant Immunity”. ISME. The International Society for Military Ethics is an organization of military professionals, academics and others formed to discuss ethical issues relevant to the military. The Society’s meetings have been held each year since 1979.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fisme.tamu.edu%2FJSCOPE04%2FCarlino04.html&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNFdZ4wtMK92c6Q6VqdL8QFEPhUjvQ|http://isme.tamu.edu/JSCOPE04/Carlino04.html]]</span> “The idea of…respect of it.”]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="FootnoteCharacters">Combatants consent to an exchange of rights that distinguishes them from noncombatants. [Ibid (Carlino p. 23). “The aforementioned right…ad bellum concerns.”] [Ibid (p.23). “In contrast to…Constitution is founded.”]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="FootnoteCharacters"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">S: respecting noncombatant immunity</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1. Allowing for exceptions to obligations harms rights.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2. Retaliation against violation of the standard makes nuclear war inevitable. <span class="FootnoteCharacters">[Posner, Richard. Retribution and Related Concepts of Punishment (judge on the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Court_of_Appeals_for_the_Seventh_Circuit|United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit]]</span> in <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicago|Chicago]]</span> and a Senior Lecturer at the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Chicago_Law_School|University of Chicago Law School]]</span>) Source: The Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 9, No. 1 (Jan., 1980), pp. 71-92 Published by: The University of Chicago Press “To understand the…of individual contestants.]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="FootnoteCharacters"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">3. The only way to treat combatants morally is by respecting noncombatant immunity. [Nagel, Thomas War and Massacre. Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 1, No. 2 (Winter, 1972), 123-144. “Some of the…with a vengeance.”]</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="FootnoteCharacters"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Thesis: </span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nuclear weapons do not discriminate between combatants and noncombatants and thus violate the moral agency of innocents.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="FootnoteCharacters"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nuclear weapons are by nature indiscriminate. [Cohen, Avner. Nuclear weapons and the future of humanity : the fundamental questions. Totowa, N.J: Rowman & Allanheld. 1986.</span></span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> <span class="FootnoteCharacters"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FInternational_Standard_Book_Number&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNHI3QRjKnLyKXFMQ4SzI5XIYFnPrg|ISBN]] [[http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FSpecial%3ABookSources%2F978-0847672585&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNGoYbaVYxfDU_-0jwRkrupJ6VObeg|978-0847672585]]</span>. (with Steven Lee) p. 23 “Nonnuclear weapons are…is merely foreseen.”]</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Nuclear weapons possession intends to inflict harm depending on external circumstances; that intent is morally unacceptable. [**__Farrell,__**Daniel M. “Immoral Intentions”. Ethics. January 1992. Philosophy Professor at Ohio State. <span style="color: black;">Source: Ethics, Vol. 102, No. 2 pp. 268-286 The University of Chicago Press </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381605]]</span> “Now, I have…about to do.”]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Mere possession of nuclear weapons transgresses moral limits on military action. [<span class="FootnoteCharacters">Lee, Steven. “The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences” Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 549-566 The University of Chicago Press <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381037]]</span> “First, the vast…pointed at them.”]</span></span>

=== === 
===Modular AC=== 

V: M
VC: Protecting Life
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">A multiplicity of agents beyond formally empowered state leaders could start a nuclear war. </span>[Nassani, Moti. “Lives in the Balance: the Cold War and American Politics, 1945-1991”. 1992. (Professor in the Department of Interdisciplinary Studies at Wayne State University. “Moreover, humankind’s fate…carry them through.”] </span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">While existing nuclear powers are predominantly economically developed states with stable political systems, emerging nuclear threats may not be, making the increase in risk of conflict exponential.</span>[Falconi, Oscar. “The Case For Space Colonization—Now!—and why it should be our generation's #1 priority.” 1981. (BS in Physics from M.I.T., physicist and consultant in the computer and electro-optical fields, has published articles on the theoretical limits of optical devices). “The 3rd World…badly translated information.”] </span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">E</span><span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">ach additional nuclear state creates an increased risk of accidental launch or other mistakes spiraling into nuclear conflict. </span>[Nassani, Moti. “Lives in the Balance: the Cold War and American Politics, 1945-1991”. 1992. (Professor in the Department of Interdisciplinary Studies at Wayne State University. “Finally, World War…than the Soviets.”]
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">More nuclear weapons in states with corrupt governments and poor security increases the risk of nuclear weapons ending up in the hands of terrorists. </span>Thomas Dempsey, Director of African Studies in the Department of National Security and Strategy at the U.S. Army War College. “COUNTERTERRORISM IN AFRICAN FAILED STATES: CHALLENGES AND POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS” April 2006 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub649.pdf]]</span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Studies based on the projected spread of nukes shows that if countries continue to gain weapons the risk of an attack are extremely high. </span>Matthew Bunn (senior research associate at Harvard). “A Mathematical Model of the Risk of Nuclear Terrorism” ANNALS of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 607, No. 1. 2006. p. 107</span>
<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Proliferation occurs in the context of historical regional rivalries which ensures that as new nuclear states emerge, proliferation will lead to nuclear war. </span>David J. Karl (president of the Asia Strategy Initiative, a consultancy based in Los Angeles. He recently served as project director of the Bi-national Task Force on Enhancing India-U.S. Cooperation in the Global Innovation Economy). “<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2539274|Proliferation Pessimism and Emerging Nuclear Powers]]</span>.” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=intesecu|International Security]]</span> Vol. 21, No. 3 (Winter, 1996-1997), pp. 87-119  (article consists of 33 pages). <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=mitpress|The MIT Press]]</span>.</span>

==__Negative__== 

===Jiu Jitsu NC=== 

V: M

States have no higher authority to appeal to settle disputes and thus must have the right to rely upon themselves for protection. Skillen, John. 2005. With or Against the World: America's Role Among the Nations. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield. “Realism makes several…its own security.”

<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Prohibiting the possession of nuclear weapons prevents states from threatening the use of low-yield tactical nukes to prevent aggression. </span>Younger, Stephen M. [Associate Laboratory Director for Nuclear Weapons, Los Alamos National Laboratory] “Nuclear Weapons in the Twenty-First Century” June 27, 2000 < [[http://library.sciencemadness.org/lanl1_a/lib-www/la-pubs/00393603.pdf]]>
"Nuclear weapons are...for national security."


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">National security necessitates acquiring nuclear weapons to prevent a conventional attack. </span>Narang, Vipin. “Posturing For Peace? Pakistan’s Nuclear Postures and South Asian Stability”. //International Security,// Vol. 34, [No. 3 (Winter 2009/10), pp. 38–78 © 2010 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “The Pakistan army...second-strike forces."

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]