[[toc]]
[[2010-2011 — Edina (MN) — Vivian Ha & Dustin Meyers-Levy|Main page]]
=Afghanistan Aff= 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**1AC**</span>=== 
**<span style="color: black;">PLAN: The United States federal government should reduce its military presence in Afghanistan to a level consistent with a counterterrorism strategy.</span>**

**Contention One is Hegemony:**

**A-subpoint is the war kills heg – two internals:**

**1. Credibility – Obama’s withdrawal date is contingent on ground conditions and is only the beginning of withdrawal – however, allies perceive us as cutting and running and are confused**
**Rogin, 10** - staff writer for Foreign Policy, Prior to that, Josh covered defense and foreign policy for Congressional Quarterly. Josh has also worked at the House International Relations Committee, and the Brookings Institution (Josh, “Petraeus: Withdrawal timeline does not mean "switching off the lights",” The Cable, 6/29,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/29/petraeus_withdrawal_timeline_does_not_mean_switching_off_the_lights]]</span>)

When General David Petraeus testifies today… …exactly what they’ve been doing.

**Plan solves – Obama spins the plan as a lighter but permanent commitment to Afghanistan – ends confusion and restores credibility**

**Stewart, 10** - <span style="color: black;">Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “</span><span class="sifr-alternate"><span style="color: black;">Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, </span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3]]</span>)

<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">But this moderate tone gains Obama … …in Afghanistan but a much greater focus on Kashmir</span></span>.1

**2. Overstretch – even with Iraq troop withdrawals we’re overstretched in Afghanistan**

<span class="Author-Date">Mulrine 9</span> (Anna Mulrine, staff writer for US News & World Report, January 16, 2009, “Obama to Confront Limits of America's Overstretched Military”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://politics.usnews.com/news/world/articles/2009/01/16/obama-to-confront-limits-of-americas-overstretched-military_print.html]]</span>)

<span class="DebateUnderline">With</span> progress in Iraq still precarious and… <span class="DebateUnderline">…</span>recruits in 2008 had high school diplomas.

**Afghanistan is the new Vietnam – the war is killing morale and readiness – drawdown solves**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">Kuhner, 9</span>**<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;"> - </span></span>the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;"> (Jeffrey, Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic) </span></span>

America is losing the war in Afghanistan… …the evil, welcoming arms of extremists.

**That kills hegemony – plan is key to prevent great power challengers**

**Pyne, 9** - <span class="justify1">Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “</span>Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/]]</span>)

<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">Since we invaded Iraq six and a … …of US-ally Georgia</span></span> this past year.

**B-subpoint is heg good:**

**It is**

**Thayer 6** - professor of security studies @ Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)

A grand strategy based on American primacy… …to the economic prosperity it provides.

**Transition away from unipolarity guarantees great power conflicts – heg solves**

William <span class="Heading2Char">Wohlforth</span> (professor of government @ Dartmouth) <span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-weight: normal;">200</span>9</span> “ Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War” Project Muse

The upshot is a near scholarly… …<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">for status tend to be zero sum</span></span>.9


<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Even if collapse is inevitable – we need to retain hegemony as long as possible </span>**</span>

**Thayer, 07** – Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University (Bradley A., American Empire, Routledge, page 105)

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Knowing that American hegemony will end …</span></span> …to preserve it as long as possible.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Even if there’s a short term decline in heg – on-balance withdrawal will boost leadership – only a risk that the status quo is worse </span>**</span>

<span class="Underline"> **<span style="text-decoration: none;">Innocent and Carpenter 9</span>** </span>Malou, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, and Ted, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf]]</span>

Former national security adviser Henry <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Kissinger… …</span></span><span class="boldunderline">undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal. </span>


**Contention Two is COIN:**
**Failure is inevitable – impossible requirements, corruption, foreign funding for the Taliban, no public support, and simplistic strategies – switch to counterterrorism solves**

**Nelson, 9** – former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Rick, “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin]]</span>)

Q1: General McChrystal is expected to… …any “all-in” approach would entail.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Resentment against the troops spurs instability and Taliban support – we can’t win the war </span>**</span>

<span class="Underline"> **<span style="text-decoration: none;">Dorronsoro, 09</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> - visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (2/9/09, Gilles, The National Interest, “Going South in Afghanistan,” </span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20794]]</span>)

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Afghanistan may be the right war… …than any foreign forces ever could. </span></span>


**COIN kills the effectiveness of counterterrorism – We can’t influence the Afghan government**

**Michael J.** <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Boyle</span></span> – Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews – <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">20</span>10 </span>(International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/cgi-bin/fulltext/123318677/PDFSTART]]</span>)

Finally, <span class="DebateUnderline">a counterinsurgency mission can have… …needed to achieve its essential counterterrorism goals</span>.

**Scenario 1 is Pakistan:**

**COIN drives insurgents to Pakistan and destabilizes the state – causes collapse**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Akhtar, 10</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">-</span></span> professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#]]</span>**1)**

**If it is a war against extremists… …any moment, thus destabilizing the state .**

Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia

Pitt, 9**-** **a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]]</span>)**



Counterterrorism in Afghanistan solves terrorism in Pakistan—we spill over
Sageman 9 **Marc, Director of Research at ARTIS Research and Risk Modeling and former Secret Service consultant, December 20<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-weight: normal;">09</span></span>(“Confronting al-Qaeda: Understanding the Threat in Afghanistan” Perspectives on Terrorism, Volume III, Issue 4,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.terrorismanalysts.com/pt/index.php?option=com_rokzine&view=article&id=92&Itemid=54]]</span>)**

**Protection of Western homeland involves an… …<span class="DebateUnderline">containment with Pakistan’s active collaboration.</span>**


**Scenario Two is Terrorism:**

**Risk of nuclear terrorism is high – al Qaeda attacks by 2013**
**Hall, 10** (Mimi, USA Today, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, 4/12, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm]]</span>

**WASHINGTON — President Obama is asking… …<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">be used in a terrorist attack" by 2013</span></span>.**

**However, this material cannot be used without having <span style="color: black;">Afghanistan as a vital safe haven for al Qaeda – terrorism is inevitable but control over Afghanistan is the key internal link to nuclear attacks</span>**
**Arkedis, 9** **-** director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007 (Jim, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, 10/23,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven]]</span>)

**<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">I spent five years as a counterterrorism… …al Qaeda the only physical space it can access</span></span>.**

**Nuclear terrorism causes extinction**
**Morgan, 9 -** Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct)

**In a remarkable website on nuclear war…<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;"> …misery and suffering in a nuclear winter</span></span>.**

**Plan solves both scenarios – we contain instability and check extremism in the area**

**Simon, and Stevenson, 9 * adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND** Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409]]</span>)

An effort on that scale would… …that it has, in fact, become.

**No offense – counterterrorism empirically solves and doesn’t kill credibility**

**Long, 10** - assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs (Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan,” Orbis, Spring 2010, Science Direct)

<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">It will</span></span> therefore <span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">take about… …the best alternative for the U</span></span>nited <span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span>tates.

**Withdrawal gives Karzai legitimacy and spurs opposition to the Taliban – solves nationalism**

**Dorronsoro,9** -Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (January 2009, Gilles, “Focus and Exit: An Alternative Strategy for the Afghan War,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_war-strategy.pdf]]</span>)

This three-zone strategy is not… …independence of Afghanistan’s peripheral regions.


**Their indicts don’t apply – the plan’s residual force can provide force protection, intelligence gathering, and can work together with local allies to fight terrorists and maintain local support**
**Long, 10** - assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs (Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan,” Orbis, Spring 2010, Science Direct)

This insoluble problem is why the counterterrorism option… …<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;"> larger than any other counterterrorism deployment.</span> </span>



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-Counterterrorism Spillover Advantage - Broken rd. 4 at Greenhill vs Blake MM]]Counterterrorism Spillover Advantage - Broken rd. 4 at Greenhill vs Blake MM**</span>=== 

**The shift to counterterrorism leads a change in global foreign policy – allows for more effective counterterrorism policies globally**

**<span style="color: black;">Gventer, 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">- Senior Defense Analyst at the RAND Corporation and a former deputy assistant secretary of defense. She served two tours in Iraq, including a year as a senior adviser to General Peter Chiarelli, the operational commander in Iraq in 2006 (Celeste, “False Promise of 'Counterinsurgency'”, 12/1,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.rand.org/commentary/2009/12/01/NYT.html]]</span>)</span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">An effort to conduct "counterinsurgency" in Afghanistan… …military capable of applying overwhelming force. </span></span>

**We’ll isolate three scenarios:**

**Scenario one is Yemen –**
Al-Qaeda is building its strength in Yemen now – US counterterrorism support stops it
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">RNW, 9 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Radio Netherlands Worldwide, December 30,</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.rnw.nl/english/article/yemen-wants-more-help-counter-terrorism]]</span>) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">The __Yemeni government__ has __said it needs…__ …against militant hide-outs earlier this month. </span>

**Al-Qaeda control over Yemen leads to regional instability and kills Saudi oil production**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Al-Arabi 9 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Arabic newspaper, May 14,</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Yemeni president "has the right to be concerned" about Al-Qa'idah - Arabic paper”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.floyd.lib.umn.edu/us/lnacademic/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T9748748199&format=GNBFI&sort=RELEVANCE&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T9748755202&cisb=22_T9748755201&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=10962&docNo=7]]</span>, lexis) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In other words, these</span> __disturbances__, __which spread… …and industries to a great danger__. </span>

**Saudi oil production is key to the global economy**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hinds 10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Matthew, project manager of RBS Global Banking & Markets,March 12, 2010,</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://lse-ideas.blogspot.com/2010/03/saudi-arabia-what-are-effects-of-global.html]]</span>, “Saudi Arabia : What are the Effects of the Global Financial Crisis on Saudi Arabia’s Economic Prospects?”, LSE Ideas) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Overall, the </span>__lack of urgency shown by… …the future expect them to dominate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span> </span>

**Economic collapse through oil decline causes every major war – biggest impact in the round**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Newsflavor, 9 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Newsflavor is a network of journalists that cover current events, political coverage, world news, and opinions, April 9, “Will an Economic Collapse Kill You?” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://newsflavor.com/opinions/will-an-economic-collapse-kill-you/]]</span>) </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It may or may not sound likely to you… …</span>**__issue facing us in the 21st century.__**

**Independently, regional instability ignites multiple flashpoints for nuclear war – extinction**
**London 6/23/10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Herbert, Professor Emeritus of Humanities at NYU, resident of the Hudson institute, and Outstanding Person, “Dark War Clouds Loom on Mid-East Horizon,” accessed at <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=37630]]</span> on 8/20/10, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It is also instructive that</span> <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Syria… …</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the one that is dangerous to ride.</span>

**Scenario two is Africa:**
**Strengthening counterterrorism efforts in Africa is key to check instability, proxy wars, and terrorism – specifically in Somalia**
**Kagwanja 06** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Peter, director of research of the Democracy and Human Rights Programme, “Counter-terrorism in the Horn of Africa: New security frontiers, old strategies,” African Security Review 15.3 pg 84-85, </span>dml)

<span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 8pt;">While the extensive use of terrorist tactics… …</span>__<span style="color: #231f20;">terrorism have thrived in the Horn of Africa.</span>__

**African instability leads to nuclear war – proxy wars escalate**
Deutsch PhD and political risk consultant 02 <span class="cite">Jeffrey, and Founder, Rabid Tiger Project, 11/18/02 (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.rabidtigers.com/rtn/newsletterv2n9.html]]</span>)</span>

The Rabid Tiger Project believes that… **__…__**and some people love to go fishing.



**Somali instability spills over globally**
**Pham 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J. Peter, World Defense Review columnist and Ph.D., “Somali Instability Still Poses Threat Even After Successful Strike on Nabhan,” accessed at<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://worlddefensereview.com/pham091709.shtml]]</span> on 8/20/10, dml)</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">The United States struck an important blow… …</span>__<span style="color: black;">and the overall international order.</span>__ </span>

**Nuclear war**
**Brown 93** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Dean of Elliot School of International Affairs, </span>Ethnic Conflict and International Security pg 18-19, Google Books, dml)

__The proliferation of__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">nuclear weapons and…</span> __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">attacks on Kurdish civilians in the 1980s.</span>


<span class="Underline">**Scenario Three is Pakistan:** </span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">COIN drives insurgents to Pakistan and destabilizes the state – causes collapse</span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;"> **<span style="color: black;">Akhtar, 10</span>**<span style="color: black;">- professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#]]</span>**1)** </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;"> **<span style="color: black;">If it is a war against extremists… …any moment, thus destabilizing the state .</span>** </span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;">Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;"> Pitt, 9**- a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,**</span>**”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]]</span>)**


<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;">Counterterrorism in Afghanistan solves terrorism in Pakistan—we spill over</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;"> Sageman 9 **Marc, Director of Research at ARTIS Research and Risk Modeling and former Secret Service consultant, December 20**09**(“Confronting al-Qaeda: Understanding the Threat in Afghanistan” Perspectives on Terrorism, Volume III, Issue 4,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.terrorismanalysts.com/pt/index.php?option=com_rokzine&view=article&id=92&Itemid=54]]</span>)** </span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Protection of Western homeland involves an… …containment with Pakistan’s active collaboration.</span>** </span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-Red Spread advantage - broken Valley round 5 vs Wayzata MD]]Red Spread advantage - broken Valley round 5 vs Wayzata MD**</span>=== 

**Contention Two is Russia:**

**A-subpoint is the Russians are coming – we’ll isolate 6 warrants:**
**1. Mock attacks**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher </span>**<span style="color: black;">Ruddy</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, “Russia and China Prepare for War -- Part 6: Eleven Signs of a Russian Surprise Attack,” NEWSMAX, March 16, 19</span>**<span style="color: black;">99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://archive.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/16/84704]]</span>. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">2. Mock attacks. </span><span class="highlight2">__In the past two years… …<span style="background-color: yellow;">conditioned to view these exercises as normal</span>.__</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> **2. High alert** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher </span>**<span style="color: black;">Ruddy</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, “Russia and China Prepare for War -- Part 6: Eleven Signs of a Russian Surprise Attack,” NEWSMAX, March 16, 19</span>**<span style="color: black;">99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://archive.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/16/84704]]</span>. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">1. Russia's Alert Status. As reported last year… …</span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">is now viewed as business as usual.</span>__ </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">3. Bunkers </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher </span>**<span style="color: black;">Ruddy</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, “Russia and China Prepare for War -- Part 6: Eleven Signs of a Russian Surprise Attack,” NEWSMAX, March 16, 19</span>**<span style="color: black;">99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://archive.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/16/84704]]</span>. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">10. Russia's Nuclear War Bunkers. </span><span class="highlight2">__Perhaps <span style="background-color: lime;">the </span>… …they built this enormous system of shelters?__ </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">4. Sea shift </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher </span>**<span style="color: black;">Ruddy</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, “Russia and China Prepare for War -- Part 6: Eleven Signs of a Russian Surprise Attack,” NEWSMAX, March 16, 19</span>**<span style="color: black;">99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://archive.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/16/84704]]</span>. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in;">This month's war games were widely seen … …continues to be used around the world." </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">5. Gold reserves </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher </span>**<span style="color: black;">Ruddy</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, “Russia and China Prepare for War -- Part 6: Eleven Signs of a Russian Surprise Attack,” NEWSMAX, March 16, 19</span>**<span style="color: black;">99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://archive.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/16/84704]]</span>. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">8. </span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Russia is hoarding gold. </span>____Gold is… …the most stable currency in a war time economy.__ </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">6. Missile defense </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher </span>**<span style="color: black;">Ruddy</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, “Russia and China Prepare for War -- Part 6: Eleven Signs of a Russian Surprise Attack,” March 16, 19</span>**<span style="color: black;">99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://archive.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/16/84704]]</span>. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">11. </span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Russia has a sophisticated</span>____… … incoming US missiles__</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">. Clinton has yet to utter one word of protest. </span></span>

**B-subpoint is containment:**

**Drawdown is perceived by Russia as regrouping to contain them – the plan is the key factor to prevent expansionism – the timeframe is the end of the year**
**Steff 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">— Intern, Centre for Strategic Studies. Dissertation on ballistic missiles and deterrence. MA, IR (Reuben, The Russian Resurgence, America and the Great Crisis of 2010, 7 January 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1001/S00022.htm]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Well </span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: yellow;">2010 will be a period of consolidation for Russia</span>… …<span style="font-size: 7pt;">rapprochement between Iran and the US remains impossible. </span></span>


**A large military preoccupation in Eurasia ensures Russian expansionism – it’s the key factor**
**Stratfor 3/8/10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – STRATFOR Global Intelligence think tank</span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; font-size: 8pt; padding-right: 10px;"> [[http://russiaotherpointsofview.typepad.com/files/russia_influence_intro_stratfor.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Window of Opportunity </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">While Russia reconsolidated</span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …Afghanistan or its standoff with Iran? </span>


**No defense – relations are a sham – the Kremlin is still in control of Russia and hates us**
**Nyquist 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (J.R., brilliant analyst of Russian foreign policy, 7/24, “Acknowledging the Deception,” accessed at<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0724.html]]</span> on 9/21/10, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">If it sounds like Soviet times, you are not mistaken… …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">imitate and </span>__exploit for their own purposes.”__

**And, all indicators flow aff – __top Russian generals__ confirm that the Kremlin is on the offensive – only US primacy can contain them and prevent nuclear war**
**Nyquist 09 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J.R., brilliant analyst of Russian foreign policy, 7/17, “Marina Kalashnikova’s Warning to the West,” accessed at<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0724.html%20on%209/21/10|http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0724.html on 9/21/10]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">In other words, the West has already …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> …Putin was the master terrorist behind al Qaeda.</span>__ </span>

**Russian expansionism will lead to an invasion of the Caucasus region**
Giorgi **Kvelashvili**, analyst for the Jamestown Foundation's Eurasia Daily Monitor, February 23, **2010**. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Russia’s Ursine Embrace of Georgia’s Abkhazia Province: Ongoing Annexation with Larger Geostrategic Consequences.” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://jamestownfoundation.blogspot.com/2010/02/russias-ursine-embrace-of-georgias.html]]</span> </span>

On February 16<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, __<span style="background-color: yellow;">the Russians summoned to… </span>…the United States and the West as well.__ </span>

**That would draw in the US and ensure nuclear w****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ar </span>**
Stephen J. **Blank**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago</span>, June **2000**. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“U.S. MILITARY ENGAGEMENT WITH TRANSCAUCASIA AND CENTRAL ASIA”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.bits.de/NRANEU/docs/Blank2000.pdf]]</span></span>

__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Russia’s drive for hegemony over the Transcaucasus</span>… …pursuit of unilateral advantage and reintegration__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 75</span>


**C-subpoint is impact calculus –**

**Russian war is THE only scenario for extinction – evaluate this round based on magnitude – we control the only existential risk**
**Bostrom, 02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Ph.D. and Professor at Oxford University </span><span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Nick, March, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html|www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html]]</span>) </span></span>

<span class="Heading3Char"> __<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">A</span>____<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;"> much <span style="background-color: yellow;">greater existential risk emerged… …</span></span>__</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">destroy</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">or</span> <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">thwart</span></span> __<span style="background-color: yellow;">humankind</span>’s potential permanently__**.**

**Any other impact is just reshuffling the deck chairs on the Titanic – dealing with Russia must come first to avoid inevitable extinction**
**Nyquist 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J.R., brilliant analyst of Russian foreign policy, 6/19, “Why Most Things Do Not Matter,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0619.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Imagine you are on the Titanic, and… …</span></span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">is a matter of life and death.</span> </span>



**And, war isn’t obsolete – it’s THE most probable scenario**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andreas </span>**__<span style="color: black;">Umland</span>__**,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> DAAD Lecturer, Shevchenko University, “The Unpopular Prospect of World War III…The 20th Century is Not Over Yet,” HISTORY NEWS NETWORK, January 17, 20</span>**__<span style="color: black;">09</span>__**,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://hnn.us/roundup/entries/60004.html]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">That is because </span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt; font-weight: normal;">the darkness of… …a worst-case scenario ever materializes</span>____<span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-weight: normal;">.</span>__</span>


**And, the timeframe is 30 minutes**
**Helfand and Pastore 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ira and John, past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]]</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">President Obama and Russian President Dimitri… …existed in 1995 remains in place today.</span>

**And, expansionist Russia makes every impact inevitable**
**Nyquist 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J.R., brilliant analyst of Russian foreign policy, 6/23, “Refusing to face reality,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2006/0623.html]]</span>) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="highlight2">__Behind Washington’s infighting there exists… …<span style="background-color: lime;">already possess untold numbers of WMDs</span>.__ </span></span>




===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-Case]]Case </span>=== 


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-Case-2AC Heg Impact Calc]]2AC Heg Impact Calc</span>==== 

**Case mitigates the disad – their impacts don’t escalate to global nuclear war as long as the US retains primacy – escalation __only__occurs in a world of hegemonic decline**

**Gray, 05<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.carlisle.army/|http://www.carlisle.army]]</span>. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 6. Interstate War, Down but Far from… … motives for war: “fear, honor, and interest.”23</span>

====2AC AT: Heg Unsustainable==== 


**Heg is sustainable – we just have to sustain it** 
**Walt 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of International Affairs at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government (Stephen M., "Five big questions," Foreign Policy, http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/07/12/five_big_questions, 7/12/10) </span>

__The United States will remain the world's… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">but I'm open to being pleasantly surprised. </span>


====2AC AT: Winning the war==== 

We only ran the COIN advantage at the beginning of the year so we didn't really update our blocks past this


**Their authors are misguided – their concept of “winning” is __worse__ than losing** 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Englehardt 7/12/10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> Tom, </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">co-founder of the [[http://www.americanempireproject.com/|American Empire Project]] author of [[http://www.amazon.com/dp/1608460711/ref=nosim/?tag=tomdispatch-20|The American Way of War: How Bush’s Wars Became Obama’s]], “//Remind Me Again: Why Are We in Afghanistan?”// CBS News, //[[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/07/12/opinion/main6671452.shtml]]//</span>

W<span style="font-size: 8pt;">hat Success Would Mean in Afghanistan… …</span>**__expenditure of money, effort, and lives?__**


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-T/Theory]]T/Theory**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-T/Theory-T - non-combat]]T - non-combat</span>==== 


**We Meet -** **Combat and Non-combat troops are the same. Cards saying otherwise are government smoke and mirrors – combat capabilities are required for any presence**
<span style="margin: 0in;">(**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">F</span></span>**oreign **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">P</span></span>**olicy **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">M</span></span>**agazine, **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">8-3</span></span>**-10, “What’s the Difference Between Combat and Noncombat Troops?”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/08/03/what_s_the_difference_between_combat_and_noncombat_troops]]</span>) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in;">On Monday, U.S. President Barack Obama announced… …this isn't the first time a president has declared an end to "combat" in Iraq. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Presence includes combat troops**</span>
<span class="Underline"> **Nekoomaram, 9** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">graduate student at American University in the journalism master’s program and reports on international affairs as a fellow at Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (Ladan, American Observer, 11/10, “US military presence in foreign countries exceeds rest of world”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: black; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://inews6.americanobserver.net/articles/us-military-presence-foreign-countries-exceeds-rest-world]]</span> )</span>

<span class="Underline">The United States has military presence in… …where U.S. soldiers are engaged in combat theaters</span>.

**Education – we’re key to learning about Afghanistan – COIN vs CT is at the core of the topic**
**<span style="color: black;">Long, 10</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">- assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs (Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan,” Orbis, Spring 2010, Science Direct) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">One of </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">the most important debate</span></span><span style="color: black;">s </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">to emerge… </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">…</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">an illusion, doomed to fail if attempted.2</span>


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-T/Theory-Conditionality - 2AC]]Conditionality - 2AC</span>==== 


**Our model of pre-round conditionality actually mirrors real-world cost-benefit analysis**

Don Bradford **Hardin**, Jr., JD from Alabama Law, 200**8**, Alabama Law Review, 59 Ala. L. Rev. 1135

Against this background, CBA came to prominence… …the regulatory decisionmaking paradigm of the administrative state.



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-DAs]]DAs**</span>=== 


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-DAs-2AC Generic Link Turn]]2AC Generic Link Turn</span>==== 


**Link turn – continuing COIN leads to full withdrawal, triggering the link – plan makes our presence sustainable and credible**
**Stewart, 9-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,”</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: black; font-size: 8pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

__The best Afghan policy would be to reduce… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more.</span>



====2AC Russia Relations - Red Spread==== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**1. The Russians are preparing for war – their authors are duped**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Nyquist 09 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J.R., brilliant analyst of Russian foreign policy, Financial Sense Archives (7/17, “Marina Kalashnikova’s Warning to the West”)<span style="cursor: pointer;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0724.html]]</span>, </span>dml</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">In other words, the West has already been outmaneuvered… …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> Putin was the master terrorist behind al Qaeda.</span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **2. Russia remains evil and is deceiving the west –good relations are impossible**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Nyquist 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (J.R., brilliant analyst of Russian foreign policy, Financial Sense Archives (7/24, “Acknowledging the Deception”)<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0724.html]]</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">If it sounds like Soviet times, you are… …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">imitate and </span>__exploit for their own purposes.”__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **3. Even in a worst case scenario, nuclear primacy means we’d win the war now**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Lieber and Press 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Keir, Assistant Professor of Political Science, University of Notre Dame, and Daryl, Associate Professor of Political Science, University of Pennsylvania, “The End of MAD? The Nuclear Dimension of U.S. Primacy,” INTERNATIONAL SECURITY, v 30 n 4, Spring</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">p. 7-8.</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: black; cursor: pointer; font-size: 8pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/is3004_pp007-044_lieberpress.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> __The age of MAD, however, is waning… …__ __nuclear arsenal is far more vulnerable.__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span class="Underline">**4. War now prevents retaliation and escalation**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline"> **Leiber and Press** </span>**06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Keir, Assistant Professor of Political Science, University of Notre Dame, and Daryl, Associate Professor of Political Science, University of Pennsylvania</span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> , “The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ituassu.com.br/theriseofusnuclearprimacy.pdf]]</span>)</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline"> Washington's pursuit of nuclear primacy helps… …**have so few warheads and decoys left.**</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **5. Full nuclear war with Russia is the only scenario for extinction**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Bostrom, 02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Ph.D. and Professor at Oxford University </span><span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Nick, March, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html|www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html]]</span>)</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Heading3Char"> <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">A much greater existential risk emerged… …</span></span>__destroy__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">or</span> <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">thwart</span></span> __humankind’s potential permanently__**.**</span>






====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-DAs-2AC Taliban Takeover DA]]2AC Taliban Takeover DA</span>==== 



<span class="Underline">**Withdrawal stabilizes Afghanistan- tribes band to prevent Taliban rise**</span>
<span class="Underline"> **Etzioni, 08** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor of International Relations at The George Washington University (10/28/08, Amitai, The National Interest, “Kabul Goes Tribal,”</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: black; font-size: 8pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20108]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sociologists are keenly aware that … …</span>rather than try to nationalize leadership. </span>

**Withdrawal allows Karzai to negotiate with the Taliban – solves takeover**
**Porter, 2/4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- investigative historian and journalist specializing in US national security policy. The paperback edition of his latest book, Perils of Dominance: Imbalance of Power and the Road to War in Vietnam, was published in 2006 (2010, Gareth, Asia Times Online, “US, Karzai Split Over Taliban Talks,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: black; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/South_Asia/LB04Df01.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">KABUL - </span>__On the surface, it would …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">…off and denounced and renounced". </span>


**<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="color: black;">No impact – </span></span>**
**<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="color: black;">a) Withdrawal wouldn’t lead to takeover </span></span>**
**<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="color: black;">b) Even if it did, it wouldn’t lead to terrorism </span></span>**
**<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="color: black;">c) Even if it did, intervening actors solve </span></span>**
**<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="color: black;">Katz,</span></span><span style="color: black;"> 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">- professor of government and politics at George Mason University (Mark, “Assessing an Afghanistan Withdrawal,” 9/9, ISN Security Watch,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Current-Affairs/Security-Watch/Detail/?lng=en&id=105801]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Those opposing a US/NATO withdrawal assume… … not necessarily lead to defeat there. </span>

**Taliban can’t take over – they’re not trained and they don’t have enough support**
<span class="Underline">**Abramowitz, 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- senior fellow at the Century Foundation (6/8/09, Morton, The National Interest, “A View from Kabul,” </span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: black; font-size: 8pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=21572]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

<span class="Underline">Few, however, disagree that this… … support massive amounts of aid for Kabul?</span>



====2AC START (With Red Spread)==== 
**3. START can’t solve – it doesn’t reduce Russian TNWs – they still have nuclear capabilities**
**__Graham and__** **__Cohen 10__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Owen, aresearch assistant at the Davis Institute, and Ariel, senior fellow in Russian and Eurasian studies at the Heritage Foundation’s Katherine and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Policy. Owen Graham is aresearch assistant at the Davis Institute, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2010/05/New-START-Abandoning-Missile-Defense]]</span>, New START: Abandoning Missile Defense)</span>

__<span style="background-color: aqua;">The agreement fails to address</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a… …</span>__is a major concession to the Russians__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**4. And, START increases the risk of accidents – triggers our miscalculation arguments**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Dr. David A. </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooper</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">is a Senior Research Fellow in the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction at the National Defense University and a former Director of Strategic Arms Control Policy at the Department of Defense., July 30, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">200</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">9</span></span>, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">“Aligning disarmament to nuclear dangers: off to a hasty START?;,” lexis</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;">In theory, further strategic offensive reductions should… …__and stockpiles of weapons-grade fissile material__. </span>

**5. And, nuclear disarmament kills our nuclear superiority against Russia**
**Nyquist 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J.R., brilliant analyst of Russian foreign policy, 2/6, “Shameful Stupidity,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0206.html]]</span>) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; margin: 0in;">We no longer have a universal ideal!” exclaimed Fyodor… …with the Russians on “deep nuclear reductions.” </span>

**6. And, nuclear primacy is key to check Russian relaliation and escalation**
<span class="Underline">**Leiber and Press** </span>**06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Keir, Assistant Professor of Political Science, University of Notre Dame, and Daryl, Associate Professor of Political Science, University of Pennsylvania</span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> , “The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ituassu.com.br/theriseofusnuclearprimacy.pdf]]</span>) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"> __Washington's pursuit of nuclear primacy helps explain… …__**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">have so few warheads</span> and decoys left__.**</span>


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-DAs-1AR START]]1AR START</span>==== 
<span style="font-weight: normal;">**And, Russians have cheated on every treaty in the past – they wouldn’t reduce any weapons and would be at a strategic advantage** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David T.</span> **__<span style="background-color: lime; color: black;">Pyne</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Defense Analyst, “The Coming New World Order-Whose Vision Will Prevail,” THE AMERICAN PARTISAN, August 1, 20</span>**__<span style="color: black;">0<span style="background-color: lime;">2</span></span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.american-partisan.com/cols/2002/pyne/qtr3/0801.htm]]</span>.</span>

<span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-weight: normal;">The historic signature of the Sino-Russian Alliance</span>____<span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-weight: normal;">…</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-weight: normal;">…</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-weight: normal;">strategic defensive <span style="background-color: lime;">might</span></span>__</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> over the United States.</span>



====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-DAs-2AC Iran Strikes DA]]2AC Iran Strikes DA</span>==== 


Zero risk – reports of attack on Iran are hyperbole and proven false

Atlantic Free Press, August 24, 2010, p. online

The project was set off almost __five years ago… …__ Israel will attack Iran¶ will Israel attack Iran?


===CPs=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-CPs-2AC Bilateral defense CP]]2AC Bilateral defense CP</span>==== 



Perm solves and the CP doesn’t – extend our Stewart evidence, the plan signifies our commitment to the region – treaties alone don’t solve
O’Hanlon and Shejan, 10- **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael O’hanlon, senior fellow at The Brookings Institution, specializing in defense and foreign policy issues, and Hassina Sherjan, president of Aid Afghanistan for education, (2010, “Toughening it out in Afghanistan,” p.102-103)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senator Joseph Lieberman, scholar Ashley </span>__Tellis, and others… … tide has begun to turn on the battlefield.__**

Counterplan fails – internal resistance and dependence on the US undermines treaties – indicts their author
**<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rubin, 08</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- <span class="bio">director of studies and senior fellow at the Center on International Cooperation at New York University, chair of the Conflict Prevention and Peace Forum of the Social Science Research Council, special adviser to the UN Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Afghanistan (June 2008, Barnett, “Afghan Dilemmas: Defining Commitments,” The American Interest Online)</span></span>**

**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Lynch accurately identifies, too, the failure… … or defense treaties will make a difference.</span>**


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-CPs-2AC XO]]2AC XO</span>==== 


**2. Presidential power high even without XOs – economic crisis**
**Walsh 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Kenneth, Chief White House Correspondent, “Obama, Like Bush, Uses Crisis to Expand Presidential Power” US News and World Report, March 16,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.usnews.com/articles/news/obama/2009/03/16/obama-like-bush-uses-crisis-to-expand-presidential-power.html?PageNr=2]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It's clear that </span>__Obama is intent on changing America's course__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in a dramatic way, as Ronald Reagan did in 1981. But <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.usnews.com/articles/news/obama/2009/03/16/obama-like-bush-uses-crisis-to-expand-presidential-power.html?PageNr=2|Obama]]</span>, while he admires Reagan's "transformational" approach, seeks to reverse much of what Reagan accomplished. "This is a guy who is defining a new way forward," says Will Marshall, president of the centrist Progressive Policy Institute. "This is terra incognita.</span> __People aren't used to seeing changes in government that are this dramatic____<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" In a way,</span>__Obama__ __is doing what__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">George W. </span>__Bush did in the national security sphere, using a crisis to expand presidential authority__. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">After the 9/11 terrorist attacks, Bush moved to increase and exert his war-making powers. Now, </span>__amid the recession and financial meltdown, Obama is moving to increase and exert his peacetime powers.__ __The result__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in both cases </span>**__has been a more muscular presidency__**.

**4. One XO doesn’t dramatically increase presidential power**
**Kreider 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Kyle, Assistant Professor of Pol Sci @ Wilkes, June 2006 [<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.bsos.umd.edu/gvpt/lpbr/subpages/reviews/warber0606.htm]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> A part of the strategic environment surrounding executive orders… …authority to decide upon their constitutionality.</span>

**7. Turn – Constitution:**
**a)** **Abusing presidential powers in the context of the military destroys the Constitution and puts us on a slippery slope to dictatorship**
**Carpenter 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dale, Law professor @ Minnesota, A DISCOURSE: Presidential Powers in Time of War – Spring 2006 (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.law.umn.edu/uploads/wE/aa/wEaa1g7XB6j0QyoOhoFpYw/Presidential_Powers_exchange_Paulsen_Kitrosser_Carpenter.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Which war-related power controls the matter... …</span>__more of that executive restraint today.__

**b) Petro 74**
**Petro 74** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sylvester</span> <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Petro</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of law at Wake Forest, Spring</span> <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">1974</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Toledo Law Review, p480)</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;">However, one may still insist on echoing… …<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">resisted with undying spirit</span>__</span>__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>__ </span>

**c) Independently, side constraint to uphold the Constitution no matter what framework**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daryl</span> **Levinson**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of law at University of Virginia,</span> **2000** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[University of Chicago Law Review, Spring, Lexis]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Extending a majority rule analysis of optimal… …</span>__if constitutional rights were never violated__.



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-Kritiks]]Kritiks**</span>=== 


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-Kritiks-2AC Security]]2AC Security</span>==== 

**The world of IR requires policy relevance – the alt can’t function because it’s only a theoretical action**
**Stein, 00**(Arthur, American Professor of Political Science at the University of California, Los Angeles, “Being Useful: Policy Relevance and International Relations Theory,” University of Michigan Press, pg 51)

There is every reason to expect the… …address anomalies unexplained by current theory.

**<span style="color: black;">Their criticism should be ignored – their authors have no place in international relations discussions – they can’t explain how their theories have a material effect on the world </span>**
**Jarvis 2000** (Darryl, Associate prof of IR @ Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, International Relations and the Challenge of Postmodernism: Defending the Discipline pg 198, dml)

I am, of course, being flippant. Yet… …anew our theoretical and disciplinary enterprise?

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Perm – do the plan and all parts of the alt that aren’t vote neg. The kritik is politically irrelevant – discussions of security representations consign their alternative to failure – only a combination can avoid this </span>**</span>
**WALT 1991** (Stephen, Professor at the University of Chicago, International Studies Quarterly 35)

Yet the opposite tendency may pose an even greater… …between different methodological approaches (Downs, 1989).

**No impact – responding to threats won’t lead to genocide and imperialism – star this card**
**Elshtain ‘8** (Jean Bethke, Prof. Social and Politics Ethics – U. Chicago, and Chair in Foundations of American Freedom – Georgetown U., American Behavioral Scientist, “Etzioni on Religion: Challenging the Warrior/Preacher’ Faultline”, 51:9, May, Sage)


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">What does security first entail? Etzioni answers… …an outgrowth of security first will follow.</span>

====1AR Security==== 

**Extend framework – The role of the ballot is to simulate the policy outcome of the plan. This is the only way to make change in society – theorizing at best only exposes the problems, not solutions – this is the only in-route to change, killing alt solvency. Extend Stein and Jarvis – they can’t explain how their criticism is real-world relevant – if they can’t provide a concrete policy they should be ignored as they prevent change of real-world conditions – more evidence**
**Tuathail, 96** (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">While theoretical debates at academic conferences… …to the patterned mess that is human history.</span>


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-Kritiks-2AC Russia Reps K (Valley round 5 with the Red Spread advantage)]]2AC Russia Reps K (Valley round 5 with the Red Spread advantage)</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**And, our representations are justified – the Russians aren’t the same as the excluded Others they assume – they are for all intents and purposes Martians** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in;">Mary **__Midgley__**, 19**__90__**. Philosophy lecturer at the University of Newcastle-upon-Tyne whose central interest is in the relation between humans and the rest of nature, and author of Beast And Man: The Roots of Human Nature. “Thinking about nuclear weapons: analyses and prescriptions”, Ed. Fred Holroyd, p. 87-88, Google Print. </span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Explanations of this kind do not… …'The stronger we are, the stronger peace is.'3</span>

**Turn – their theoretical demands fracture national unity – that makes it impossible to defend against threats like Russia – that’s a disad to the criticism and turns value to life**
**Nyquist 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jeffrey R., brilliant analyst of Russian foreign policy and All-American Man, 6/17, “National Security vs Special Interests,” accessed at<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: blue; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2005/0617.html]]</span> on 9/21/10, dml)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">After the response from last week</span><span style="color: black;">’</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">s column… …</span>__<span style="color: black;">the rhetoric of divide and conquer is clearly at work.</span>__


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-Kritiks-2AC Hillman (with Red Spread)]]2AC Hillman (with Red Spread)</span>==== 

<span style="margin: 0px;">**Perm – embrace all instances of war except war with Russia. We don’t have to love war in every instance – we just have to avoid complete pacifism**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cavarero 09</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> [Adriana, Professor of Political Philosophy at the Università degli studi di Verona, __Horrorism: Naming Contemporary Violence__, p. 63-4]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the start of the third millennium…</span> <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the phenomenon, <span style="background-color: aqua;">impedes comprehension</span> of it.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> **Their criticism should be ignored – our authors have done research and proposed specific solutions, their authors have no place discussing international relations concerns – they can’t explain how their theories have a material effect on the world**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> **Jarvis 2000** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Darryl, Associate prof of IR @ Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, </span></span>International Relations and the Challenge of Postmodernism: Defending the Discipline pg 198, dml)
<span style="margin: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">I am, of course, being flippant. Yet </span>__we__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">do… …</span> __anew our theoretical__ __and__ __disciplinary enterprise?__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;"> **Their alt is universalizing – war is not the basic psychological desire Hillman makes it out to be – at best their alternative can only work for some people**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> **Stuhr 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">John J.</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Arts and Sciences Distinguished Professor of Philosophy and American Studies, and Department Chair, Department of Philosophy, Emory University, “A Terrible Love of Hope,” THE JOURNAL OF SPECULATIVE PHILOSOPHY, v 22 n 4, 20<span style="color: black;">08</span>, p. 283-4.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> <span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9.5pt; font-weight: normal;">If Hillman is right, he is only</span>__<span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-weight: normal;">… …</span>__ <span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-weight: normal;">fraud could sentimentalize its cruel reality.”</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px;"> **Biology is the root cause – not psychology**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Thayer 4</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Bradley, Ph.D., associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies of Missouri State University, Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, international and national security affairs senior analyst at National Institute for Public Policy, Darwin and International Relations, pg. 10-11]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">While</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the discipline of</span> <span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif;">international relations</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">… …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I discuss these issues in chapter 1.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> **And, you should reject their theory for ours on-face – we’re falsifiable and they aren’t**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Bradley, Ph.D., associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies of Missouri State University, Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, international and national security affairs senior analyst at National Institute for Public Policy, Darwin and International Relations, pg. 68]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> **<span style="background-color: aqua;">Evolution provides a better ultimate causal foundation</span>… …** **and no observation sentence has falsified it.**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;"> **Turn – their theoretical demands fracture national unity – that makes it impossible to defend against threats like Russia – that’s a disad to the alt and turns value to life**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> **Nyquist 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jeffrey R., brilliant analyst of Russian foreign policy and All-American Man, 6/17, “National Security vs Special Interests,” accessed at<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #0658b5; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2005/0617.html|http://www. financialsensearchive.com/ stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/ 2005/0617.html]]</span> on 9/21/10, dml)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">After the response from last week</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">’</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">s column… …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> divide and conquer is clearly at work.</span>__</span>


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan aff-Kritiks-2AC Nietzsche]]2AC Nietzsche</span>==== 

**2. Perm solves best – We acknowledge that our ethical position is incomplete but that isn’t an excuse not to engage the world – The alternative alone devolves into nihilism**

<span class="Heading2Char">Fasching 93</span> (Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima, pp. 42 -43)

__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">For Nietzsche, </span>____<span style="background-color: silver;">there seem to be only two options</span>____… …__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">of the utopian becoming of all things. </span>

**4. Value to life can only be determined internally and preserving life is a prerequisite**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schwartz 2</span>** (Lisa, Medical Ethics, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fleshandbones.com/readingroom/pdf/399.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The second assertion made by supporters… …</span>__<span style="background-color: silver;">rational and as ends in themselves</span>__<span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">7. The negative’s conceptualization of ressentiment expresses an idea that the plan is a specific, localized instant of repression, putting them in a double-bind: Either </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">a) The plan is localized instance of ressentiment, meaning that the permutation solves, or </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">b) Ressentiment is deeply ingrained in the roots of society and the alt cannot solve. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Birns 5</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Nicholas, Ph.D. in literature @ New York, </span></span>Ressentiment and Counter-Ressentiment: Nietzsche, Scheler, and the Reaction Against Equality, accessed at <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nietzschecircle.com/RessentimentMaster.pdf,%20dml|http://www.nietzschecircle.com/RessentimentMaster.pdf, dml]]</span>)

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-weight: normal;">This is not merely a problem endemic to… …prudential, pedestrian metier</span>__ <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">of so much of Scheler’s exposition. </span></span>