[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Most Recent 1AC</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Most Recent 1AC-Plan]]Plan</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan: The United States federal government should give recognition, certification, and full legal support to extra-terrestrial property ownership claims by any private entity based on use and occupation on any celestial body beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>**

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Most Recent 1AC-Contention 1: ECON]]Contention 1: ECON</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lack of property rights makes space privatization impossible – nobody will risk billions for uncertain profits – space law must be reconfigured</span>**
Ty **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Twibell</span>**, J.D. Candidate, **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1998</span>**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
Currently, most ventures are performed … - of-right to the final product.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Conflicting interpretations of the OST have brought private space development to a halt – the aff fills a vacuum in current space legislation and causes massive commercial space development</span>**
Alan **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wasser and</span>** Douglas **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jobes</span>**, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]]</span>, Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2008</span>** Number 1, pg. 47-52, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]]</span>, JPW
IV. RECOGNITION OF PROPERTY OWNERSHIP … on natural and civil law.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Most accurate indicators say econ collapse is coming now – prefer our evidence, it’s most qualified and predictive</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sommer – 10/8</span>** (Jeff Sommer, Business reporter; “An Ugly Forecast That’s Been Right Before”; October 8, 2011;<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/09/your-money/a-recession-forecast-that-has-been-reliable-before.html?ref=business]]</span>) CJC
LET’S face it: economic forecasting is … they have now, he says.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Private space development is not inevitable – only by incentivizing progress through property rights can we unlock the limitless wealth of space</span>**
Ezra J. **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reinstein</span>**, Associate, Kirkland & Ellis, **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1999</span>**, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59
Space offers the potential for … for a long time to come.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan causes an economic boom in the aerospace and tech sectors, creating new jobs and billions of dollars of investment</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jobes 5</span>** (Douglas O., “Lunar Land Claims Recognition: Designing the Ultimate Incentive for Space Infrastructure Development,” Space Times, volume: 44, May/June, p. 10) HD
And what would motivate Congress … will be a space construction boom."

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space holds the key to the next industrial revolution—one asteroid is worth $1 trillion, helium-3 energy provides infinite energy, unique environment of space benefits the medicine and biotech industries</span>**
Ty **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Twibell</span>**, J.D. Candidate, **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1998</span>**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
"The Environment of space … kind of change is needed.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline causes global war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Royal 10</span>** – Director of CTR
Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods … debate and deserves more attention.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Growth makes war impossible – solves the impact to your DAs</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Griswold 5</span>**** (Daniel- Director of Center for Trade @ Cato Institute, Free Trade, 12.29.5, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.freetrade.org/node/282]]</span>)
Many causes lie behind the … with its own peace dividend.

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Most Recent 1AC-Contention 2: OST]]Contention 2: OST</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Outer Space Treaty is on the cusp of failure. The outdated treaty makes private investment impossible and a mass exodus from the treaty likely.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Quinn 8</span>** (Adam G., J.D./M.B.A. Candidate, University of Minnesota Law School, “The New Age of Space Law: The Outer Space Treaty and the Weaponization of Space,” Minnesota Journal of International Law, Summer) HD
Because the drafters of the … a substantive set of space laws.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Commercial activity in space makes mass OST withdrawal inevitable in the status quo – countries will withdraw to avoid property rights questions</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dinkin 4</span>** (Sam, Ph.D. economist, July 12, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/179/1]]</span>)
The Outer Space Treaty may … to grow up after all.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">One withdrawal from the OST causes others and kills development.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gabrynowicz 7</span>** (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, October 22,<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://rescommunis.wordpress.com/2007/10/22/the-outer-space-treaty-still-relevant-and-important-after-all-these-years/]]</span> 6/26/11) HD
Finally, the motive for the … the political will to do so.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Total OST withdrawal undermines the foundation of the entire space treaty regime – clarification over property rights is required to avoid legal instability.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gabrynowicz 5</span>** (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, Fall, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/IntlSpaceTreatyGabryno.pdf]]</span>) HD
As regards to property rights … eliminating the existing legal structure.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">OST consultation process is key to dissuading weaponizers and avoiding misunderstandings from escalating to conflict.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Marder 8</span>** (Center for defense information, CDI Research Assistant, “CPR for the OST: How China’s Anti-Satellite Weapon Test Can Breathe New Life into Article IX of the Outer Space Treaty,” June 2008, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/ChineseASATtest.pdf]]</span> DA; 6/26/11)
Finally, the most valuable benefit … a weaponized space is a present threat.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Impact – weaponizing space prompts Russia and China to put their weapons on hair trigger alert – leads to high risk of nuclear terrorism, accidental war, and unauthorized launch.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lewis, 04</span>** – Postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program, funded by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, at the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy (CISSM), Jeffrey, July, 2004, “What if Space Were Weaponized?: Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios”, pg. 22-24, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span>, CDI)
The Russians already continue to … China to do the opposite.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bostrom 2</span>** (Nick, Dir. Future of Humanity Institute and Prof. Philosophy – Oxford U., Journal of Evolution and Technology, “Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”, 9, March, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span>)
The first manmade existential risk … encounter in the 21st century.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Now is key to fill the gaps in the space treaty with national laws like the plan – empirically solves in space.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gabrynowicz 5</span>** (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, Fall, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/IntlSpaceTreatyGabryno.pdf]]</span>) HD
The second option for modifying … that quits forfeits the game.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I-Law precedent indicates the first country to interpret a treaty will set a pattern that other countries follow.</span>**
Alan **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wasser and</span>** Douglas **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jobes</span>**, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]]</span>, Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2008</span>** Number 1, pg. 47-52, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]]</span>, JPW
Some experts argue that the … the de facto international standard. 93

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Aff solves – US unilateral action is best and complies with existing precedent.</span>**
Ty **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Twibell</span>**, J.D. Candidate, **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1998</span>**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Admin istration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
The problems with international methods … agreed-upon international regime." n372

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The US’s position as a leader in space means that our national policies are the main influence on international legal frameworks.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Porras – 6</span>** ( Daniel A. Porras, J.D., Associate Officer International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, focused on International Land and Outer Space Law; “The "Common Heritage" of Outer Space: Equal Benefits For Most of Mankind”; California Western International Law Journal; 37 Cal. W. Int'l L.J. 143; Fall, 2006; Lexis) CJC
Man has been exploring his … frameworks are adopted or rejected.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The lack of an explicit ban on private property rights means that there’s no ban – other nations and legal scholars agree.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brittingham</span>** – Professor – **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">10</span>** (Bryon C. Brittingham, J.D., Teacher of Business, Law, and English for a Specific Purpose (ESP) course in various countries to professionals at overseas universities; “Does the World Really Need New Space Law?”; OREGON REVIEW OF INTERNATIONAL LAW; Vol. 12, 31; 2010; <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.law.uoregon.edu/org/oril/docs/12-1/brittingham.pdf]]</span>) CJC
Assuming that “the province of … the possibility of private claims. 54

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Government interpretation of increasing exploration and/or development means recognition of property rights in space.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sattler</span>** – Space Enterprise Council – **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">5</span>** (Rosanna Sattler, Esq. is a Partner with Posternak Blankstein & Lund LLP in Boston, Massachusetts. She is a commercial litigator, and chairs the firm's Space Law and Telecommunications Group. Ms. Sattler is a member of the Board of Directors of the US Chamber of Commerce, and she is Chair of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, Inc. She is also a member of the Space Enterprise Council and the Forum on Air and Space Law of the American Bar Association; “Symposium: Issues in Space Law: Transporting a Legal System for Property Rights: From the Earth to the Stars”; Chicago Journal of International Law; 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 23; Summer, 2005; Lexis) CJC
By the year 2020, humans will … develop space resources and infrastructure. n7

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Their restrictive definition of development is untenable – legal development counts, even if it has no economic role whatsoever</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sen, 2000</span>** (Amartya Sen, Lamont University Professor, and Professor of Economics and Philosophy, Nobel Prize-winning economist, What is the Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in the Development Process? Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in Development, World Bank Legal Conference, June 5, 2000)
Before I go on to the … the class of causal connections.

=Negative= 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">USSF CP</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Air Force fails – trades off with air power, lacks priorities, lacks professional development. New Space Force solves and ensures better space dominance and terrestrial heg. We solve the aff better.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dinerman – 6</span>** (Taylor Dinerman, founder of Space Equity covering the finance and investing side of space industry, columnist for the Space Review writing on space and defense issues, Senior Editor at the Hudson Institute, consultant for the US Defense Department; “United States Space Force: sooner rather than later”; February 27, 2006; <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/565/1]]</span>) CJC
It’s time to admit that … the needs of space operations.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space Force can do the AFF and solve better.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dinerman – 6</span>** (Taylor Dinerman, founder of Space Equity covering the finance and investing side of space industry, columnist for the Space Review writing on space and defense issues, Senior Editor at the Hudson Institute, consultant for the US Defense Department; “United States Space Force: sooner rather than later”; February 27, 2006; <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/565/1]]</span>) CJC
A new USSF should not … reform part of their platform.

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-DOD Anchor Tenant]]DOD Anchor Tenant</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CP solves - DOD as anchor tenant is the only way to get the private sector on board</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NSSO 7</span>**
(October 2007, National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf , FS)
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">FINDING: </span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The SBSP Study Group … </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">the National GeoSpatial</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">imaging Agency. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP will be equal to current energy costs for the DOD</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Betancourt 10</span>**
(Kiatar Betancourt, Online Journal of Space Communication, “Legal Challenges Facing Solar Power Satellites”,<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/betancourt.html]]</span> , FS)
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Military Interest: </span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The U.S. military was … </span>of SBSP lower over time<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]