[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Existential Risk AC=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Because justice demands the recognition of animal rights to prevent existential risk, I affirm. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The overwhelming imperative to minimize existential risk instantiates itself into ethical theory at the level of epistemology. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">First, normative uncertainty demands that we take existential risks seriously even under non-consequentialist ethical frameworks. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bostrom: “There will be…to decision making.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Second, ethical agnosticism should lead us to default towards preventing extinction as a meta-constraint on all ethical theories. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bostrom 2: “These reflections on…lot of value.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, we have substantial odds of eventually improving our moral reasoning and axiology. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Parfit “Reasons and Persons”: “Some people believe…the least advanced.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Third, a wide range of plausible ethical theories converge on the badness of existential risk, justifying high overall credence in the standard. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bostrom 3: “We also note…different moral theories.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fourth, normative arguments against treating the moral value of life as linearly increasing with numbers should be epistemologically discounted. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Yodowsky: “Scope neglect has…the difference experimentally.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">S- Preventing existential risks</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rights are entitlements. </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wenar</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, Lief [Chair of Ethics, King’s College London]. “Rights,” Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 2011.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> “Rights are entitlements…not be done.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Subpoint A] Livestock farming is currently on the rise. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Danielle Nierenberg [Research Associate at the Worldwatch Institute], "Happier Meals: Rethinking the Global Meat Industry" Worldwatch Paper 171 (Sept 2005) www.universityofcalifornia.edu/sustainability/documents/worldwatch_happmeals.pdf “Over the last…of these farms.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Subpoint B] Livestock farming is TERRIBLE for the environment. Worldwatch Institute, 1998. (Worldwatch Institute, “United States Leads World Meat Stampede”, July 2 1998, [[http://www.worldwatch.org/node/1626]].) The WWI is an environmental research organization/think tank based in Washington, D.C. “In a world…of Los Angeles.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">There will be NO CONTESTING the link- factory farms are the ROOT cause of ALL environmental damage. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Barrett, Kristen.. The Effects of a Vegan Diet on Human Health, the Environment, and animal Welfare as Compared to a Traditional Omnivorous Diet;November 2009; Petroleum engineering at Louisiana State University; http://dcomm.cxc.lsu.edu/portfolios/10spr/kramse6/Veganism.pdf . “For those who…the United States.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Only affirming solves. Forests will regenerate without livestock, which replenishes biodiversity. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Robert Goodland and Jeff Anhang "Livestock and Climate Change: What if the key factors in climate change are..." World Watch (Nov 2009) [[http://www.worldwatch.org/files/pdf/Livestock%20and%20Climate%20Change.pdf|www.worldwatch.org/files/pdf/Livestock%20and%20Climate%20Change.pdf]] “As there is…has been foregone.”</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Subpoint C] All of this aggregated environmental damage is FUCKING UP BIODIVERSITY. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Novacek: “There is consensus…the planet’s biota.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Subpoint D] The impact is- you guessed it- EXTINCTION. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">David N Diner [Major, U.S. Army], "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?" Judge Advocate Officer Graduate Course (April 1993) [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA456541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf|www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA456541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]] “By causing widespread…to the abyss.”</span>
===Public Processes AC=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">V- Justice</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Justice requires deliberative democracy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Public processes of deliberation are the only way to fairly determine what everyone is due. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Seyla Benhabib, [</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Eugene Meyer Professor of Political Science and Philosophy at Yale University],</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> “Deliberative Rationality and Models of Democratic Legitimacy”, Constellations Volume I, No/, 1994. Published by Blackwell Publishers. “A deliberative model…processes of deliberation.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Rules of action can only be binding if they are expressions of the will of the people.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Benhabib 2: “Rousseau’s distinction between…equal moral beings.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3. Only deliberative democracy allows for an ethical system that is mutuall acceptable by all.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Benhabib 3: “Second, the deliberative…acceptable to all.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">S- Consistency with the principles of deliberative democracy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The recognition of animal rights is key to deliberative democracy. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A) In the squo, the voices of non-human animals are absent in the deliberative process. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">John O’Neill, [Hallsworth Chair in Political Economy at the University of Manchester], “Who Speaks for Nature?." In //How Nature Speaks//, ed. Y. Haila and C. Dyke, Duke University Press, 2006. “Those questions are…to so speak.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B) An accurate representation of animals in political discourse is necessary for two reasons.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">O’Neill 2: There are at…presence of others.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C) Representation of animals is epistemologically key to making rational decisions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">O’Neill 3: “A third source…those being represented.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Inclusive deliberation helps policy-makers make better decisions about the environment.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Tim Holmes and Ian Scoones, “Participatory Environmental Policy Processes: Experiences from North and South”, Institute of Development Studies 2000. “Inclusive deliberation has…to their needs.” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The meat-eating industry is exemplifies how the refusal to take animal interests into account has led to erroneous decision-making. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Carol J. Adams, [American author and animal rights activist] “</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ecofeminism and the Eating of Animals”, Hypatia, Vol. 6, No. 1, Ecological Feminism (Spring, 1991), pp. 125-145. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> “The relationship between…to “meat” production.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D) Because animals cannot physically represent themselves, they must be represented virtually by people. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">O’Neill 4: “Goodin develops this…protection they deserve.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">E) When we include animal interests in deliberative processes we are recognizing animal rights by acknowledging their entitlement to representation. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">O’Neill 5: “The addition of…and future generations.”</span>
===Sovereign Beast AC=== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Section 1: The Face of the Other</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">V- Justice</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Normative concepts arise out of our encounter with radical alterity. This conception accounts for both the distinction and connection b/w ethics and justice. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Davy, Barbara Jane, “An Other Face of Ethics in Levinas,” Ethics & the Environment 2007. “Levnias’s statements in…chooses between others.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Alterity is key to combating injustice in its most obvious forms.</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Derrida -1</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, Jacques, Fourth Session, //The Beast and the Sovereign//, published 2009. “But does one…of being awake.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The encounter with the Other comes first. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hutchens, B.C., //Levinas: A Guide for the Perplexed//, 2004. “Responsibility is the…responsibilities to them.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Only a justice of alterity can account for the importance of equality. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Levinas, Emmanuel, //Totality and Infinity: An Essay on Exteriority//, 1979. “The poor one…me to command.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Unless justice is a transcendent image that is radically different from ourselves, it remains stagnant. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Derrida 2 “What is Lacan…perhaps understood that.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Section 2: The Animal that Therefore I Am</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Criteria that delineate a boundary of moral concern between humans and non-human animals deny radical alterity.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Derrida 3: “One might be…to the human.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The animal is most radically other so the cause of animal rights is required by justice.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Derrida 4: “If the animal…the other human.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The negation of animal rights ignores the animal-other as the place of the third person, and is therefore unjust. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Derrida 5: “Death is not…leave aside here.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The justice of alterity demands the recognition of animal rights.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wolfe, Cary, “Flesh and Finitude: Thinking Animals in [Post]Humanist Philosophy, SubStance 2008. “In Derrida as…Lives of Animals.”</span>

===The Dogs of War AC=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Animal rights mean stopping exploitation. Gary L. Francione, [, [Distinguished Professor of Law and Nicholas deB. Katzenbach Scholar of Law and Philosophy at Rutgers University School of Law–Newark.] “Animal Rights and Animal Welfare”. “As Bernard Rollin…animals to suffer.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">V- Justice</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We ought to accept a dialogic theory of ethics in which the moral point of view arises from the encounter with others.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Iris Marion Young, [Was Professor of <span style="color: #0645ad;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_Science|Political Science]]</span> at the <span style="color: #0645ad;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Chicago|University of Chicago]]</span>, and affiliated with the Center for Gender Studies and the Human Rights program there.] “Justice and the Politics of Difference”, Princeton University Press, 1990, p. 106 “The moral theory…be listened to.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Justice demands the acknowledgement of a plurality of values since only that accounts for the complexity of ethical experience.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Young 2: “The strategy of…cannot be unified.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Oppression is definitionally opposed to justice. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Young 3: “Group representation, third…tends to silence.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Theories of justice that deal with the effects of structure rather than with structure itself are myopic and insufficient.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Young 4: “Other writers criticize…actions or acquisitions.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Theories of justice that don’t account for institutional structures can never be a guide to action.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Young 5: “The attempt to….liberal capitalist societies.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">S- Undermining structural oppression</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A) Identifying the attitudes behind the oppression of animals is key to undermining general oppression. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ann Ferguson [</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies at Amherst], </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">and Mechthild Nagel [Professor of Philosophy at SUNY], “Dancing with Iris: The Philosophy of Iris Marion Young”, Oxford University Press, 2009. “Framing the discussion…long-overdue process.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B) The exploitation of animals is part of a vicious cycle of violence and domination, which is the root cause of human oppression.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[1]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Steven Best, [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Texas at El Paso], “Rethinking Revolution: Animal Liberation, Human Liberation, and the Future of the Left”, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The International Journal of INCLUSIVE DEMOCRACY, Vol. 2, No. 3 (June 2006)</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. “Since the fates…for as one.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C) The U.S. military is exploiting thousands of animals a year forcing them to work in some of the most dangerous combat situations seen by the military. </span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plourde 2004</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, (Shawn is a writer and animal rights activist, ‘What Did You Do in the War Fido?’, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">http://www.thenausea.com/elements/special%20topics/crimesagainstanimals/animals%20in%20warfare/anim als%20in%20warfare.html</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">) “The list of…that of humans.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">However, the military exploitation of animals is grounded in the belief that animals are property and only exist as disposable tools of war.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plourde 2: “We have thought…treatment of animals.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D) Only recognizing animal rights, i.e. rejecting the use of animals as means to an end, solves since it demands a radical restructuring of society, which will undermine the oppressive hierarchies.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Best 2: “The fight for…achieved in history.”</span>

===The Sausage Fest AC=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">V- Justice</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Justice= giving each their due</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Reject rationality</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Ethical systems based on rationality are abstracted from the relationships that form the basis of human concern. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Val Plumwood, [</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Australian Research Council Fellow at the </span><span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Australian_National_University|Australian National University]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">], </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Nature, Self, and Gender: Feminism, Environmental Philosophy, and the Critique of Rationalism”, //Hypatia//, Vol. 6, No. 1, Ecological Feminism (Spring, 1991), pp. 3-27. “This view of…ecology as well.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Rationalism alienates the actor from his subject.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lori Gruen, [</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Professor of Philosophy, Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, and Environmental Studies at Wesleyan University.] </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Attending to Nature Empathetic Engagement with the More than Human World”, Ethics & the Environment, Volume 14, Number 2, Fall 2009, pp. 23-38. “Plumwood, and other…attending to others.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Only an ethic of empathetic engagement solves. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gruen 2: “I mentioned at…our moral being.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We must recognize the intentionality of living beings.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gruen 3: “While there are…than human world.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">S- Empathetic engagement with sentient beings</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Empathetic engagement requires that we recognize animal rights. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. If emotion is relevant in determining who has claim to rights, then justice requires that we grant rights to animals. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Katrina M. Albright, [J.D., University of New Mexico School of Law, 2002; B.A., Geology and Environmental * Sciences, Bryn Mawr College, 1999.], “The Extension of Legal Rights to Animals under a Caring Ethic: An Ecofeminist Exploration of Steven Wise's //Rattling the Cage”//, Natural Resources Journal, Vol. 42. “Adams and Donovan’s…rights to animals.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Under empathetic engagement, we must stop ignoring cries of pain. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Carol J. Adams, [American author and animal rights activist] “</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ecofeminism and the Eating of Animals”, Hypatia, Vol. 6, No. 1, Ecological Feminism (Spring, 1991), pp. 125-145. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Ninety percent of… “bacon”, or “sausage.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3. The meat-eating industry is another example of the self-defeating emphases on rationality. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Adams 2: “The relationship between…to “meat” production.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We should become vegetarians. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Josephine Donovan, [</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Received her M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in comparative literature from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. She has held academic positions at several universities. She recently retired early from her position as Professor of English (tenured) at the University of Maine.]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> “</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Animal Rights and Feminist Theory”, //Signs//, Vol. 15, No. 2 (Winter, 1990), pp. 350-375. “Natural rights and…can hear them.”</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">I Fiat Contraceptions AC</span>=== 

Part 1: Asymmetry
Asymmetry explains the obvious lack of a positive duty to procreate.
Benatar 1: <span style="font-size: 8pt;">David [Head of the Philosophy Department, Cape Town], //Better Never to Have Been,// 2006. </span>“First, the asymmetry…deprived of it.”
Only the asymmetry explains the unique injustice of bringing suffering beings into existence.
Benatar 2: “There is a…children into existence.”
The asymmetry also explains our retrospective judgments.
Benatar 3: “Thirdly, support for…are not bad.”
The asymmetry explains the difference between distant suffering and uninhabited portions of the universe.
Benatar 4: “Finally, support for…could have existed.”
The asymmetry clearly applies to analogous goods and bads, and it follows that the nonexistence is better than existence.
Benatar 5: “Some people have…for rapid recovery.”
It doesn’t matter //how// unjust life is, because the asymmetry makes non-existence preferable regardless of contingent facts about our quality of life.
Benatar 6: “That coming into…enjoyed that good.”
We have independent grounds to terminate life before it begins.
Benatar 7: “First is a…the mistaken presumption.”

Part 2: Phased Extinction
Because procreation is unjust, justice requires phased extinction of all animal species without killing.
Benatar 8: “Notwithstanding this overlap…justification, is wrong.”
It is an injustice to continue procreation.
Benatar 9: “At best, the…all things considered.”
Phased extinction requires the recognition of animal rights because it is key to the human extinction movement.
Benatar 10: “Although the arguments…of pure malice.
Benatar shows that justice requires the recognition of our right to be free from needless harm and injustice, and the right not to be brought into existence. Animals have these rights too.
Benatar 11: “I treat this…a serious harm.”

===<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The Lottery AC</span>=== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rights = entitlements.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Wenar, Lief [Chair of Ethics, King’s College London]. “Rights,” Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 2011. “Rights are entitlements… not be done.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Aff burden = prove animals deserve entitlements.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Justice entails the recognition of at least some rights.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Korsgaard, Christine. “Natural Motives and the Motive of Duty,” Contemporary Readings in Law and Social Justice 2009.</span>“Hume’s distinction between… comply with them.”
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Section one: we should accept a constructivist account of justice.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rawls</span>, John. Collected Papers, ed. Freeman, 1993, p. 307. “Kantian constructivism holds… equal moral persons.”
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The normative realists view is crazy; consider an analogy to the New York State lottery.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Street</span>, Sharon [NYU]. “Objectivity and Truth: You’d Better Rethink It,” forthcoming in Philosophy & Public Affairs, 2011. “But now consider… you probably didn’t.”
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Normative realism is analogous.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">First, the normative lottery is supposedly independent of our own beliefs. Street-2</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“The problem for… any fair lottery.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Second, there are several ways to go wrong in the normative lottery. Street -3</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“The realist also… one has entered.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Third, the lottery winner’s claim to knowledge begs the question. Street – 4</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“Finally, as I… forced to antirealism.”</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Section two: Constructivism requires that we treat both human and non-human animals with respect for their entitlements.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">A. Our ends matter only if we matter.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Korsgaard, Christine [Harvard University], “Fellow Creatures: Kantian Ethics and our duties to animals” The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. “I believe that… ourselves and others.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">This constructivist principle applies to animals. Korsgaard – 2:</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“Even if you… its own sake.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">B. Values come from goods of ultimate importance to the valuing creature. Korsgaard -3:</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“However that may… so to speak.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">This construction of value also applies to animals for the same reasons. Korsgaard -4: “But to say… very deep matter.”</span>

==Negative== 
===Language NC=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">V- Justice</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Normativity is found in the meaning of the terms that we use, not in external objective facts. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Elisa Aaltola, [Oxford Center for Animal Ethics], “The Anthropocentric Paradigm and the Possibility of Animal Ethics”, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ethics & the Environment, Volume 15, Number 1, Spring 2010, pp. 27-50 (Article). RK</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> “A more sophisticated…losing their meaning.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">S- Consistency with language structures</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The consistency with language structures demands the non-recognition of animal rights. There are two independent justifications. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. First, the belief that humans are of special value lies at the very basis of normative language; this deep belief cannot be challenged by moral theory. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Aaltola 2: “One advocate of…moral theory alone.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Normative reasoning about the status of humans and animals will destroy the meaning of morality itself. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Aaltola 3: “However, perhaps something…sense of value.”</span>

===Planet of the Apes DA=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">V- Justice</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We should default to rules which maximize our ability to continue to engage in moral reasoning and chance of finding demonstrable moral truths. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bostrom: “These reflections on…lot of value.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We have substantial odds of eventually improving our moral reasoning and axiology.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Derek Parfit (Professor of Philosophy, Princeton University), Reasons and Persons, 1987. “Some people believe…the least advanced.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Normative arguments treating the moral value of life as linearly increasing with numbers should be epistemologically discounted. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Yodowsky: “Scope neglect has…the difference experimentally.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">S- Preventing existential risks</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Tough animal testing laws has hindered international efforts to find a cure for aids. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Times Online "AIDS Research hit by shortage of test animals" www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/life_and_style/health/article471598.ece “A GLOBAL shortage of…needed for experiments.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Animal testing is key to solving the HIV epidemic.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Animal Research "HIV and AIDS"www.understandinganimalresearch.org.uk/your_health/hiv_aids. “Following the discovery…in our lifetime.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">WE ARE ON THE BRINK. HIV/AIDS causes global pandemics. **AIDS AT 20 / An Evolving Epidemic / Scientists fear AIDS' future** //Newsday - May 31, 2001// Laurie Garrett, Staff Writer. “Today, with the…to cause disease.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The impact is extinction. ZIMMERMAN 1996 (Barry and David, both have M.S. degrees from Long Island University, Killer Germs p 132) “Then came AIDS…is the virus.”</span>
===Dualism Kritik=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">V- Justice</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Justice= giving each their due</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Reject rationality</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rationality erases and manipulates difference for the benefit of man. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Josephine Donovan, [</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Received her M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in comparative literature from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. She has held academic positions at several universities. She recently retired early from her position as Professor of English (tenured) at the University of Maine.]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> “</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Animal Rights and Feminist Theory”, //Signs//, Vol. 15, No. 2 (Winter, 1990), pp. 350-375.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“The pretensions of…her by man.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ethical systems based on rationality are abstracted from and opposed to the relationships that form the basis of human concern. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Val Plumwood, [</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Australian Research Council Fellow at the </span><span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Australian_National_University|Australian National University]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">], </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Nature, Self, and Gender: Feminism, Environmental Philosophy, and the Critique of Rationalism”, //Hypatia//, Vol. 6, No. 1, Ecological Feminism (Spring, 1991), pp. 3-27. “This view of…ecology as well.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rationalism alienates the actor from his subject.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lori Gruen, [</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Professor of Philosophy, Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, and Environmental Studies at Wesleyan University.] </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Attending to Nature Empathetic Engagement with the More than Human World”, Ethics & the Environment, Volume 14, Number 2, Fall 2009, pp. 23-38. “Plumwood, and other…attending to others.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">S- empathetic engagement with sentient beings</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Dualistic mindset of rights creates an opposition between man and animal. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Kelly Oliver, [Vanderbilt University </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studie</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">s], “What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?”, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article). “This type of…are like us.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Rights assume an ability to speak for those we are granting rights to but that is an act of oppression.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Oliver 2: “Feminists also have…of her husband.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3. The very act of granting rights to animals is a confirmation of the superiority of humanity. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Oliver 3: “Asked about the…fair utilitarian calculus.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I advocate the rejection of rights in favor of an ethic of evaluating the suffering of others and responding based upon our empathy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Oliver 4: “As MacKinnon’s example…of capacity or identity.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plumwood 2 continues: “Rights seem to…ethics of universalization.”</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contracts NC</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Value = Justice</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Just laws are created through contracts based on mutual agreement in rational self-interested terms.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Derek Parfit, [Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University], //On What Matter//, 2011. "Rawls revises the... to everyone's well-being."</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">S - consistency with rational agreement.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I contend that rational individuals would not give special protection to animals since this would not further their self-interest.</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wilson</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> “Animals and Ethics” Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. "Although Rawls argues... animals will not"</span>

===Fish PIC=== 
I. Text: With the same actor as the affirmative, recognize rights for all animals except for fish.
II. Competition: a) mutually exclusive b) net beneficial
III. Solvency
Fish can't feel pain.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rayeev Sayel, http://www.smh.com.au/articles/2003/02/10/1044725683181.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fish cannot feel... be feeling pain. </span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===Vomit AC=== 
V-Morality
If consequentialism is true we have an obligation to help individuals in need
AC Burden: Prove consequentialism is true
Any moral theory must have simplicity, power, and coherence.
Shelly Kagan, “The Limits of Morality” (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1989). “Let me start…to reject them.”
Meeting this criteria is necessary to understand the moral realm. Kagan 2: “This need for…yielded intuitively correct.”
Consequentialism has simplicity, power, and coherence. Any other ethical story is non-unified, ad hoc, and at odds with non-moral rationality.
Phillip Pettit [Professor of Politics and Philosophy, Princeton University], “Consequentialism” in A Companion to Ethics, ed. Peter Singer (1993), 238. “There are at…of practical rationality.”
Knowledge is a matter of inference to the best explanation.
Jonathan Vogel [Professor of Philosophy, Amherst College], “Skepticism and Inference to the Best Explanation,” Journal of Philosophy 1990, 4-5. “These remarks about…reject the competitors.”
And, Normative arguments against treating the moral value of life as linearly increasing with numbers should be epistemologically discounted since they derive support from cognitive biases that prevent us from recognizing the moral badness of mass death.
Yudowsky: “Scope neglect has…the difference experimentally.”
Also, If individuals are able to prevent something bad happening, without sacrificing something of comparable moral importance, we ought morally to do it. The analogy to the drowning baby proves.
Peter Singer [Professor of Philosophy at Princeton University” Practical Ethics. Third Edition. “On my way…plausible ethical theory.”
There is no non-arbitrary justification to discriminate between saving the baby and helping people in need.
Peter Singer [Princeton University], “Famine, Affluence, and Morality”]. “I do not…on geographical grounds.”
This means that negating is equivalent to letting the baby drown in the pond. The onus is on the negative to give justification for this deeply counter-intuitive claim. That’s because intuitions are the basis of moral reasoning.
McMahan, Jeff. “Moral Intuition,” Blackwell Guide to Ethical Theory (1999). “It is important…surrender our intuition.”
Intuitionism demands utilitarianism.
Joshua D. Greene (Department of Psychology, Harvard University). “The Cognitive Neuroscience of Moral Judgment*.” To appear in: //The Cognitive Neurosciences IV//. *This is not the final version, but it is pretty similar. “Four other studies…by current theory.”
Nonconsequentialist considerations only enter from emotions that interfere with logical reasoning.
Greene 2: “Three more recent…complicating this interpretation.”

===Vomit AC v2=== 
Neg must prove converse of the resolution.
Permissibility does not follow from skepticism.
Joyce, Richard. “Nihilism,” International Encyclopedia of Ethics, forthcoming. Accessed online. “Before leaving existential…some other sense.”
Aff burden: An obligation exists to help people in need
We cannot have absolute certainty about the external world or morality but knowledge is just a matter of inference to the best explanation.
Jonathan Vogel [Professor of Philosophy, Amherst College], “Skepticism and Inference to the Best Explanation,” Journal of Philosophy 1990, 4-5. “These remarks about…reject the competitors.”
Consequentialism is a better explanation of fundamental moral truths than non-consequentialism.
Phillip Pettit [Professor of Politics and Philosophy, Princeton University], “Consequentialism” in A Companion to Ethics, ed. Peter Singer (1993), 238. “There are at…of practical rationality.”
Kantian and contract morality yield consequentialism.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Parfit 2</span>, Derek. On What Matters, vol. 1, 2011. “When we apply…reasons to choose.”
Individuals have a moral obligation to undermine poverty.
First, global poverty is a result of current institutional structures that are heavily skewed towards the rich.
Thomas Pogge, [Professor of Philosophy and International Affairs at Yale], “Freedom from Poverty as a Human Right: Who Owes What to the Very Poor?”, Oxford University Press, RK. “The quote brings…hampers poverty reduction.”
And, structural reform is key. Small impact on the affluent results in a huge impact on the poor.
Pogge 2: “The path of…and its recipients.”
These structural reforms will have a tremendous impact on preventing poverty.
Pogge 3: “In the modern…life-threatening poverty.”
And, the impact of poverty is huge.
Pogge 4: “Each day, some…premature poverty deaths.”
Underview: intuitions are the basis of moral reasoning.
McMahan, Jeff. “Moral Intuition,” Blackwell Guide to Ethical Theory (1999). “It is important…surrender our intuition.”
There is a near universal consensus that we ought to help those in poverty.
Pogge 5: “In this world…in an emergency.”
If individuals are able to prevent something bad happening, without sacrificing something of comparable moral importance, we ought morally to do it. The analogy to the drowning baby proves.
Peter Singer [Professor of Philosophy at Princeton University” Practical Ethics. Third Edition.
“On my way…plausible ethical theory.”

===Habermas AC=== 
V-M
Before we can answer normative questions, we must have an accurate understanding of epistemology. First, when we take normative statements to be true, it is because we believe they accurately refer to an external, objective reality.
Bohman, James and Rehg, William, "Jürgen Habermas", //The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy// (Winter 2011 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), forthcoming URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/win2011/entries/habermas/>. “Habermas now proposes…and laboratory experimentation.”
Second, the practical ability to function within the external world comes before the question of what normativity entails.
Jurgen Habermas, “Truth and Justification”, translated by Barbara Fultner, <span style="color: #141413;">2003 Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “The reflexive self-assurance…unethematically concomitant “background.”</span>
To attain a better understanding of objective reality, we must acknowledge the subjective perspective of others through discourse.
Habermas 2: “This performatively established…understandings and actions.”
This generates an obligation to reduce social domination.
Iris Marion Young, [Was Professor of <span style="color: #0645ad;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_Science|Political Science]]</span> at the <span style="color: #0645ad;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Chicago|University of Chicago]]</span>, and affiliated with the Center for Gender Studies and the Human Rights program there.] “Justice and the Politics of Difference”, Princeton University Press, 1990. p. 37. “Group representation, third…tends to silence.”
S- Undermining structural oppression
Prefer the standard because the only way to evaluate impacts is through their structural basis.
Young 2: “Other writers criticize…actions or acquisitions.”
I contend that individuals have a moral obligation to assist those in poverty.
Subpoint A: Poverty is literally the definition of structural oppression.
Marc Fleurbay, [Professor at Princeton University], “Poverty as a Form of Oppression”, Freedom from Poverty as a Human Right: Who Owes What to the Very Poor?”, Oxford University Press. “Indeed, poverty is…in Case 1.”
This leads to silencing because the poor are forced to accept degrading conditions in order to survive, which means dissent becomes impossible.
Fleurbaey 2: “There are thus…their personal integrity.”
Subpoint B: Global poverty is a result of current structures that are heavily skewed towards the rich.
Thomas Pogge, [Professor of Philosophy and International Affairs at Yale], “Freedom from Poverty as a Human Right: Who Owes What to the Very Poor?”, Oxford University Press. “The quote brings…hampers poverty reduction.”
Subpoint C: This system causes severe poverty.
Pogge 2: “Given that the…little to counteract.”
Subpoint D: Individuals have a moral obligation to impose the necessary costs on themselves to support reform.
Pogge 3: “The path of…and its recipients.”
These reforms will have a tremendous impact on preventing poverty.
Pogge 4: “In the modern…life-threatening poverty.”
Subpoint E: We have a near universal consensus that we ought to help those in poverty.
Pogge 5: “In this world…in an emergency.”
Pogge 6 concludes the aff: “Each day, some…premature poverty deaths.”

===Habermas AC v2=== 
V-M
Before we can answer normative questions, we must have an accurate understanding of epistemology.
First, the practical ability to function within the external world comes before the question of what normativity entails.
Jurgen Habermas, “Truth and Justification”, translated by Barbara Fultner, <span style="color: #141413;">2003 Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “The reflexive self-assurance…unethematically concomitant “background.”</span>
To attain a better understanding of objective reality, we must acknowledge the subjective perspective of others through discourse.
Habermas 2: “This performatively established…understandings and actions.”
Second, absolute ethical truth is impossible because it isolates itself from contingent facts about the world, thus totalizing that which it attempts to explain.
Michael Anker, “The Ethics of Uncertainty: Aporetic Openings”, Atropos Press, 2009. RK “For Nietzsche, the…called a decision.”
Everything we interact with is in a constant state of change, thus we can only try to adapt to constantly changing perspectives.
Anker 2: “As mentioned and…and conceptual becoming.”
Ethics should not be conceived of as static, but as undergoing a perpetual transformation.
“The ethical stance…movement of becoming.”
This generates an obligation to reduce social domination.
Iris Marion Young, [Was Professor of <span style="color: #0645ad; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_Science|Political Science]]</span> at the <span style="color: #0645ad; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Chicago|University of Chicago]]</span>, and affiliated with the Center for Gender Studies and the Human Rights program there.] “Justice and the Politics of Difference”, Princeton University Press, 1990. p. 37. “Group representation, third…tends to silence.”
S- Undermining structural oppression
Prefer the standard because the only way to evaluate impacts is through their structural basis.
Young 2: “Other writers criticize…actions or acquisitions.”
I contend that individuals have a moral obligation to assist those in poverty.
Subpoint A: Poverty is literally the definition of structural oppression.
Marc Fleurbay, [Professor at Princeton University], “Poverty as a Form of Oppression”, Freedom from Poverty as a Human Right: Who Owes What to the Very Poor?”, Oxford University Press. “The above argumentation…in this oppression.”
Subpoint B: Global poverty is a result of current institutional structures that are heavily skewed towards the rich.
Thomas Pogge, [Professor of Philosophy and International Affairs at Yale], “Freedom from Poverty as a Human Right: Who Owes What to the Very Poor?”, Oxford University Press. “The quote brings…hampers poverty reduction.”
Subpoint C: Ongoing participation in this system is a gross violation of human rights.
Pogge 2: “Given that the…little to counteract.”
Subpoint D: Individuals have a moral obligation to impose the necessary costs on themselves to support structural reform.
Pogge 3: “This discouraging historical…and its recipients.”
Structural reforms will have a tremendous impact on preventing poverty.
Pogge 4: “In the modern…life-threatening poverty.”
Pogge 5 concludes the aff: “Each day, some…premature poverty deaths.”

----


==Negative== 
===The Moral System NC=== 
V-M
The ultimate goal of every ethical theory is to reduce badness, whatever that may be.
Bernard Gert, [Professor of Intellectual and Moral Philosophy, Emeritus, Dartmouth College], “Morality: Its Nature and Justification”, 2005, Oxford University Press. “Although morality has…are moral virtues.”
The system of morality operates by attributing punishment and praise based on violation of moral rules. Gert 2<span style="font-family: Arial; line-height: 20px;">: "O</span>nce the overall…than they are.”
S- rational persons within the moral system would agree that violating the obligation deserves blame
I contend that helping people in need is only a moral ideal because rational people would reject a principle of beneficence as part of a system of morality.
Subpoint A: The principle of beneficence is an unreasonable demand, so we would not attribute punishment for violating it.
Gert 3: “The features of…a moral ideal.”
Subpoint B: It is not irrational for individuals not to constantly pursue good b/c of the asymmetry with respect to goods and bads.
Gert 4: “Since agreement on…such an effort.”

===Social Context NC=== 
V- M
1. Any normative theory that detaches itself from context is flawed at the level of epistemology.
Iris Marion Young, [Was Professor of <span style="color: #0645ad;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_Science|Political Science]]</span> at the <span style="color: #0645ad;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Chicago|University of Chicago]]</span>, and affiliated with the Center for Gender Studies and the Human Rights program there.] “Justice and the Politics of Difference”, Princeton University Press, 1990, p. 5 “The strategy of…cannot be unified.”
2. Moral actors can only understand obligations within social context.
Helen Haste, [PhD of Psychology at the University of Bath], “Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality”, 1998. “Communitarian thinkers start…than a person.”
S- consistency with social context.
First, individuals lose their distinctiveness.
Philip Selznick, [Professor of Law and Sociology Emeritus at UC Berkeley], “The Moral Commonwealth: Social Theory and the Promise of Community”, University of California Press, NC “In Western Philosophy…of modern rationalism.”
Second, individuals are ahistorical and removed from context.
Selznick 2: “To many observers…the Stoic doctrine.”
I advocate the concept of persons as the unit of moral agency as only that affirms the social situations in which obligations must operate.
Selznick 3: “The lesson is…belief, and conduct.”

==Requested Blocks== 
===A2: Beef DA=== 
Beef consumption high now. Worldwatch Institute<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>
“in 2007, meat…production and slaughter”
Meat consumption on the rise. Green Prophet<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>
“world meat consumption…the industrial world”
First, growth in income actually decreases the amount of beef and other meats eaten. __ERS__ Economic Research Service US Department of Agriculture 2/4/20__03__ [[http://www.ers.usda.gov/publications/aer820/aer820f.pdf]]
“For the at-home…expected to decline.”
And, lower income households eat more beef. Davis and Lin 05:
Christopher G. <span class="tagChar0">Davis and</span> Biing-Hwan <span class="tagChar0">Lin,</span> October, 20<span class="tagChar0">05</span>, USD, “Factors Affecting U.S. Beef Consumption. [[http://www.ers.usda.gov/publications/ldp/Oct05/ldpm13502/ldpm13502.pdf]]
“In the CSFII, more stew beef.”

----
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.worldwatch.org/node/5443]], “Meat Production Continues to Rise”, RK</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.greenprophet.com/2011/10/middle-east-meat/</span>
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Tables and Chairs AC=== 
Premise 1: If determinism is true, then everything is morally permissible.
A. Permissibility is a deontic normative status, along with obligation and impermissibility.
McNamara, Paul. “Deontic Logic.” SEP 2010. “PE//p// ↔… with ◊, etc.”
B. “Ought” implies “can”. Accept OIC for two reasons:
1. The argument from tables and chairs.
Streumer, Bart. Reasons and Impossibility, 2004. “The argument from…[R] is true.”
<span class="Underline">2. The argument from deliberation. </span>
Streumer 2. “The argument from…having such results.”
C. If determinism is true, then one cannot be morally obligated to do anything other than what one does.
Fischer, J.M. My Way, ch. 11 [2006]. “I believe that…unintentional not-Xings.”
And, compatibilism fails because freedom requires initial control that is ruled out by determinism.
Haji, Ishtiyaque. Deontic Morality and Control. Cambridge 2004. “Determinism, recall, is…of the bridge.”
Even if we reject the arguments for OIC above, determinism creates a collapse in obligations as a matter of deontic logic.
McNamara-2: “Let’s not that…determinism is true.”
Premise 2: Determinism is true.
A. Physics
The fundamental law of quantum mechanics is deterministic
Carl Hoefer [ICREA Research Professor, Barcelona], SEP entry on causal determinism, 2010. “So goes the…go this way.”
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There is no need for indeterministic breakdowns in quantum mechanics because we have a perfectly good alternative. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hoefer-3: “In 1952, David…and references therein.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The objections to Bohmian mechanics are awful. </span>
Sheldon Goldstein [Professor of Mathematics, Rutgers University], SEP entry on Bohmian mechanics, 2006. “Most of these…is remarkably elegant.”
But even if quantum-level events are indeterministic, that doesn’t refute the idea that human choices are determined.
Honderich, Ted [Grote Professor Emeritus of Philosophy of Mind and Logic, University College London]. Freedom and Determinism, ed. Campbell et al., 2004 p. 308. “About the truth…and so on.”
B. Neuroscience
Free will is an illusion. Pettit:
Pettit, Philip. “Neuroscience and Agent-Control,” chapter 5 in Distributed Cognition and the Will, ed. Ross et al. “The range of…required casual work.”
C. Metaphysics
The kind of free will necessary for alternative possibilities is impossible because we are not self-creating.
Strawson, Galen. “The Impossibility of Moral Responsibility,” //Philosophical Studies// 75, 1994. “You do what…remarked in 1866.”
Even if determinism is not true, we do not have the ability to do otherwise. Free will is simply impossible.
Ayer, A.J. “Freedom and Necessity.” In //Free Will//, ed. Watson, 1982. “But now we…again to determinism.”
We can still have important moral judgments and explain our revulsion to awful things like domestic violence by avoiding deontic judgments that involve “ought” or “obligation.”
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Haji, Ishtiyaque, “Frankfurt-Type Examples, Obligation, and Responsibility,” The Journal of Ethics 2006. “Specifically, what sort…judgment of goodness.”</span>

===LGBT AC=== 
Section 1: Metaethics
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A. Permissibility is a deontic normative status, along with obligation and impermissibility. </span>
McNamara, Paul. “Deontic Logic.” SEP 2010. “PE//p// ↔… with ◊, etc.”
And, permissibility is the default assumption.
Justin Kalef [Professor of Philosophy, Vancouver Island University], Comment on “Shifting Burdens of Proof in Practical Ethics,” August 5, 2009. [[http://peasoup.typepad.com/peasoup/2009/07/shifting-burdens-of-proof-in-practical-ethics.html]] “Ok, I’ll bite…away from permissibility.”
B. If there are moral facts, we know them through intuition. Huemer:
Huemer, Michael. “Revisionary Intuitionism” Social Philosphy and Policy Foundation (2008). “how are these…of ethical knowledge.”
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">On any plausible epistemology, there will be some beliefs that are non-inferentially justified. These are intuitions. </span>
Derek Parfit, On What Matters (draft: July 10, 2010), 697. “We may not…of these truths.”
Section 2: A Theory of Self-Defense
A. There is a widely held intuition that self-defense is a permissible use of deadly force.
Whitley R. P. Kaufman [Department of Philosophy University of Massachusetts], "Justified Killing: The Paradox of Self-Defense" Lexington Books (2009) “Self Defense is…indeed even celebrated.”
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The right to homicidal self-defense extends to other harms besides death. </span>
Tziporah Kasachkoff, [Professor of Philosophy at Ben Gurion University of the Negev & The Graduate Center, The City University of New York] “Killing in Self-Defense: An Unquestionable or Problematic Defense?”, Law and Philosophy, Vol. 17, No. 5/6 (Nov., 1998), pp. 509-531. “The central issue…so, and why.”
B. We should accept a practical account of self-defense.
Hellen Frowe “A Practical Account of Self-Defense” Law and Philosophy (2010) 29:245-272 (Springer 09) FD “It strikes me…of permissible defense.”
The permissibility of self-defense does not rest on what a particular agent believes the facts to be or an objective standard about the immanency of the threat, but as T.M. Scanlon argues,
T. M. Scanlon, Moral Dimensions (Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press,2008), p. 52: “It also depends…done those things.”
Raising the epistemic bar makes self-defense impossible to live by and violates the practicality principle.
Frowe-2: “What it is…the necessity condition.”
This view demands the use of deadly force if the victim has a reasonable belief that it’s necessary for self-preservation.
Frowe-3:
“In order to…of the cases.”
Section 3: The Advocacy
It is reasonable for LGBT victims of repeated domestic violence to believe that deadly force is necessary for self-preservation.
They can’t rely on legal avenues.
**Vickers,** Lee. 1996 "The Second Closet:Domestic Violence in Lesbian and Gay Relationships: A Western Australian Perspective." [[http://www.murdoch.edu.au/elaw/issues/v3n4/vickers.html?fb_page_id=5687159900&]]. “The reluctance of…gay domestic violence.”
Even if police treatment improved, the court system remains unjust.
Krisana M. Hodges, [Tulane School of Law, J.D., 2000. Professor of Law and Sexuality at University of California, Hastings College of the Law], “Trouble in Paradise: Barriers to Addressing Domestic Violence in Lesbian Relationships”, 9 Law & Sexuality Rev. Lesbian Gay Bisexual & Legal Issues, 311 2000. RK. “Lesbian battered women…are the criminal.”
Men who are HIV positive are uniquely financially dependent on their partner.
Shonda M. Craft [Ohio State University], "Family-of-Origin Factors andPartner Violence in the IntimateRelationships of Gay Men WhoAre HIV Positive" Journal of Interpersonal Violence, Vol. 20, No. 7, (July 2005) pp. 777-791 FD. “Few studies have…help or leaving.”
Deadly force is necessary to avoid retaliation.
Elizabeth Ayyildiz, [J.D.,Chicago-KentCollegeofLaw,1995;B.,UniversityofVirginia,1991.], “WHEN BATTERED WOMAN'S SYNDROME DOES NOT GO FAR ENOUGH: THE BATTERED WOMAN AS VIGILANTE”, JOURNAL OF GENDER & THE LAW, Vol. 4, 1995. “To some, the…by the abuser.”

===LGBT AC 2=== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Permissibility is a deontic normative status, along with obligation and impermissibility. </span>
McNamara, Paul. “Deontic Logic.” SEP 2010. “These assert that… with ◊, etc.”
The neg must prove a categorical prohibition on the use of deadly force.
B] Permissibility is the default assumption.
Justin Kalef [Professor of Philosophy, Vancouver Island University], Comment on “Shifting Burdens of Proof in Practical Ethics,” August 5, 2009. [[http://peasoup.typepad.com/peasoup/2009/07/shifting-burdens-of-proof-in-practical-ethics.htmlJMN]] “Ok, I’ll bite…away from permissibility.”
S- Practical view of self defense defined by Frowe.
Hellen Frowe “A Practical Account of Self-Defence” Law and Philosophy (2010) 29:245-272 (Springer 09) FD “It strikes me as…of permissible defence.”
Raising the epistemic bar makes self-defense impossible to live by and violates the practicality principle. Frowe-2: “What is reasonable…the necessity condition.”
Prefer the practical view of self-defense for four reasons.
A) Everyone agrees that killing in self-defense is permissible. Kaufman-1:
Whitley R. P. Kaufman [Department of Philosophy University of Massachusetts], "Justified Killing: The Paradox of Self-Defense" Lexington Books (2009) FD “Self Defense is…indeed even celebrated.”
The fact everyone agrees to it means you should accept it because it is intuitive, and we ought to give concrete intuitions more credence than abstract moral theories.
McMahan, Jeff. “Moral Intuition,” Blackwell Guide to Ethical Theory (1999): “It is important…surrender our intuition.”
B) Every ethical theory agrees – there is no moral theory for which self-defense is impermissible. Kaufman-2: “What is perhaps…why it is.”
C] Morality must guide deliberation:
D] The victim’s reasonable belief that deadly force is necessary is consistent with human equality.
Arthur Ripstein [Center for Human Values, Princeton University], "Self-Defense and Equal Protection" Pitt. L. Rev. 685 (1995-1996) HeinOnline. FD “On this Kantian…to be judged.”
It is reasonable for LGBT victims of repeated domestic violence to believe that deadly force is necessary for self-preservation.
First, LGBT victims can’t rely on legal avenues.
**Vickers,** Lee. 1996 "The Second Closet:Domestic Violence in Lesbian and Gay Relationships: A Western Australian Perspective." [[http://www.murdoch.edu.au/elaw/issues/v3n4/vickers.html?fb_page_id=5687159900&]] “The reluctance of…gay domestic violence.”
Second, even if police treatment improved, the court system remains unjust.
Krisana M. Hodges, [Tulane School of Law, J.D., 2000. Professor of Law and Sexuality at University of California, Hastings College of the Law], “Trouble in Paradise: Barriers to Addressing Domestic Violence in Lesbian Relationships”, 9 Law & Sexuality Rev. Lesbian Gay Bisexual & Legal Issues, 311 2000. RK “Lesbian battered women…are the criminal.”
Third, deadly force is necessary to avoid retaliation.
Elizabeth Ayyildiz, [J.D.,Chicago-KentCollegeofLaw,1995;B.,UniversityofVirginia,1991.], “WHEN BATTERED WOMAN'S SYNDROME DOES NOT GO FAR ENOUGH: THE BATTERED WOMAN AS VIGILANTE”, JOURNAL OF GENDER & THE LAW, Vol. 4, 1995. “To some, the…by the abuser.”
Fourth, threat of being “outed” means LGBT victims can’t go anywhere else for help.
Hodges -2: “A lesbian battered…must be made.”
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Heterosexism must be challenged at a grassroots level for change to occur. </span>
Lee Vickers. 1996 "The Second Closet: Domestic Violence in Lesbian and Gay Relationships: A Western Australian Perspective." [[http://www.murdoch.edu.au/elaw/issues/v3n4/vickers.html?fb_page_id=5687159900&]] “In order to effectively…been inadequately demonstrated.”

===Self-Defense AC=== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Permissibility is a deontic normative status, along with obligation and impermissibility. </span>
McNamara, Paul. “Deontic Logic.” SEP 2010. “These assert that… with ◊, etc.”
The neg must prove a categorical prohibition on the use of deadly force.
B] Permissibility is the default assumption.
Justin Kalef [Professor of Philosophy, Vancouver Island University], Comment on “Shifting Burdens of Proof in Practical Ethics,” August 5, 2009. [[http://peasoup.typepad.com/peasoup/2009/07/shifting-burdens-of-proof-in-practical-ethics.htmlJMN]] “Ok, I’ll bite…away from permissibility.”
S- Practical view of self defense defined by Frowe.
Hellen Frowe “A Practical Account of Self-Defence” Law and Philosophy (2010) 29:245-272 (Springer 09) FD “It strikes me as…of permissible defence.”
Raising the epistemic bar makes self-defense impossible to live by and violates the practicality principle. Frowe-2: “What is reasonable…the necessity condition.”
Prefer the practical view of self-defense for four reasons.
A) Everyone agrees that killing in self-defense is permissible. Kaufman-1:
Whitley R. P. Kaufman [Department of Philosophy University of Massachusetts], "Justified Killing: The Paradox of Self-Defense" Lexington Books (2009) FD “Self Defense is…indeed even celebrated.”
The fact everyone agrees to it means you should accept it because it is intuitive, and we ought to give concrete intuitions more credence than abstract moral theories.
McMahan, Jeff. “Moral Intuition,” Blackwell Guide to Ethical Theory (1999): “It is important…surrender our intuition.”
B) Every ethical theory agrees – there is no moral theory for which self-defense is impermissible. Kaufman-2: “What is perhaps…why it is.”
C] Morality must guide deliberation:
D] The victim’s reasonable belief that deadly force is necessary is consistent with human equality.
Arthur Ripstein [Center for Human Values, Princeton University], "Self-Defense and Equal Protection" Pitt. L. Rev. 685 (1995-1996) HeinOnline. FD “On this Kantian…to be judged.”
My advocacy is that it is reasonable for victims of repeated domestic violence to believe that deadly force is necessary for self-preservation.
First, the right to self-defense also extends to other harms besides death.
Tziporah Kasachkoff, [Professor of Philosophy at Ben Gurion University of the Negev & The Graduate Center, The City University of New York] “Killing in Self-Defense: An Unquestionable or Problematic Defense?”, Law and Philosophy, Vol. 17, No. 5/6 (Nov., 1998), pp. 509-531, RK. “The central issue…so, and why.”
<span class="UnderlineBold">Second, in situations of domestic violence where the abuser was killed, the victim felt they had no other choice. </span>
Joan B. Kelly and Michael P. Johnson, “DIFFERENTIATION AMONG TYPES OF INTIMATE PARTNER VIOLENCE: RESEARCH UPDATE AND IMPLICATIONS FOR INTERVENTIONS”, FAMILY COURT REVIEW, Vol. 46 No. 3, July 2008. RK. “The Violent Resistance…their intimate partners.”
Third, deadly force is necessary to avoid retaliation.
Elizabeth Ayyildiz, [J.D.,Chicago-KentCollegeofLaw,1995;B.,UniversityofVirginia,1991.], “WHEN BATTERED WOMAN'S SYNDROME DOES NOT GO FAR ENOUGH: THE BATTERED WOMAN AS VIGILANTE”, JOURNAL OF GENDER & THE LAW, Vol. 4, 1995. “To some, the…by the abuser.”
Fourth, leaving is not an option- violence continues after separation and in some cases, gets worse.
Tina Hotton, [<span style="color: #403838;">Toronto Region—Statistics Canada Research Data Centre</span>], “Spousal Violence after Marital Separation”, <span style="color: #141413;">Statistics Canada – Catalogue no. 85-002-XIE Vol. 21 no. 7, </span>2001. RK “Marital separation does…after the separation.”
Fifth, seeking legal redress makes the situation far more dangerous for the victim.
Barbara J. Hart, [Minnesota Center Against Violence and Abuse], “Battered Women and the Criminal Justice System”, 1992. RK “Like other victims…an abusive relationship.”

===Self-Defense AC=== 
McNamara defines moral permissibility:
McNamara, Paul. “Deontic Logic.” SEP 2010. JMN “<span style="font-size: 8pt;">PE</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">p</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ↔ ~OB… with ◊, etc.”</span>
Absent a moral prohibition, permissibility is the default assumption. Kalef:
<span class="Underline">Justin Kalef [Professor of Philosophy, Vancouver Island University], Comment on “Shifting Burdens of Proof in Practical Ethics,” August 5, 2009. </span>[[http://peasoup.typepad.com/peasoup/2009/07/shifting-burdens-of-proof-in-practical-ethics.htmlJMN]]<span class="Underline"> “OK, I’ll bite…away from permissibility.”</span>
Killing in self-defense is justified for four reasons.
A] The permissibility of the use of deadly force in self-defense is uncontroversial.
Whitley R. P. Kaufman [Department of Philosophy University of Massachusetts], "Justified Killing: The Paradox of Self-Defense" Lexington Books (2009) FD “Self Defense is…indeed even celebrated.”
We ought to give concrete intuitions more credence than abstract theories. 
McMahan, Jeff. “Moral Intuition,” Blackwell Guide to Ethical Theory (1999) “It is important…surrender our intuition.”
B] The principle of fairness justifies self-defense.
Re’em Segev, [Professor of Law at Hebrew University of Jerusalem], “Fairness, Responsibility, and Self-Defense”, [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=756947#%23|Santa Clara Law Review, Vol. 45, No. 2, pp. 383-460, 2005]]. RK “The Principle of…the non-responsible person.”
C] The right to self-defense stems from the absolute right not to be killed. Wallerstein:
Shlomit Wallerstein [Fellow and Tutor in Law at St. Peter's College of the University of Oxford]. “Justifying the Right to Self-Defense: A Theory of Forced Consequences,” Virginia Law Review. 2005. RK “Starting from the…defending one’s autonomy.”
D] Any system of morality must allow the resistance of oppression.
Jane Flax, [Professor of Political Science at Howard University], “Race/Gender and the Ethics of Difference”, Political Theory Vol. 23 No. 3, August 1995, RK “Constructive debate about…shared in common.”
An account of self-defense must be able to tell the victim what they are permitted to do in advance of their action. Raising the epistemic bar makes self-defense impossible to live by.
Hellen Frowe “A Practical Account of Self-Defence” Law and Philosophy (2010) 29:245-272 (Springer 09) FD “What it is…the necessity condition.”
Thus, we can only make judgments based upon knowledge the victim had prior to their action. Frowe 2: “It strikes me…of permissible defense.”
Standard – the practical view of self-defense.
<span class="UnderlineBold">A] Killing is the only option because violence is inevitable in the resolution. Victims who killed their abusers were trapped in an oppressive web of abuse and had no other choice. </span>
Joan B. Kelly and Michael P. Johnson, “DIFFERENTIATION AMONG TYPES OF INTIMATE PARTNER VIOLENCE: RESEARCH UPDATE AND IMPLICATIONS FOR INTERVENTIONS”, FAMILY COURT REVIEW, Vol. 46 No. 3, July 2008 476 –499. RK “The Violent Resistance…to their child.”
And, violence is inevitable because the resolution is a case of kill or be killed- the majority of deadly force was used in situation of imminent threat of death.
Michael Dowd, [Director, Pace University Battered Women's Justice Center. J.D., St. John's Law School], “Dispelling the Myths About the “Battered Woman’s Defense:” Towards a New Understanding”, Fordham Urban Law Journal, Vol. 19, Issue 3, 1991. RK “Interestingly, scholars disagree…constraints of imminence.”
B] Deadly force is necessary to avoid retaliation.
Elizabeth Ayyildiz, [J.D.,Chicago-KentCollegeofLaw,1995;B.,UniversityofVirginia,1991.], “WHEN BATTERED WOMAN'S SYNDROME DOES NOT GO FAR ENOUGH: THE BATTERED WOMAN AS VIGILANTE”, JOURNAL OF GENDER & THE LAW, Vol. 4, 1995. “To some, the…by the abuser.”
C] The criminal justice system can’t solve, because victims are intimidated and there aren’t enough resources.
Albert R. Roberts [Chairman of Administration of Justice Department, D.S.W. at the University of Maryland], and Karel Kurst-Swanger, [<span style="color: #222222;">Professor of Public Justice</span> At the State University of New York], “Court Responses to Battered Women and their Children”, //Handbook of Domestic Violence Intervention Strategies//, Oxford University Press, 2002. RK “Although innovative court…and the victim.”
D] An intersection of power hierarchies of race, class, gender, and sexuality prevents victims getting outside help.
Michele Bograd, [PhD, Psychologist] “STRENGTHENING DOMESTIC VIOLENCE THEORIES: INTERSECTIONS OF RACE, CLASS, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, AND GENDER”, Journal of Marital and Family Therapy, July 1999,VOl.25, NO.3. RK “While discussion of…as child custody.”
Oppressive power structures also impede victims from accessing alternative means of safety such as social services and shelters. Bograd 2: “Furthermore, when certain…for that protection.”

===Intersectionality AC=== 
Permissibility is a deontic normative status, along with obligation and impermissibility.
Paul McNamara, [Professor of Philosophy at the University of New Hampshire]. "Deontic Logic", //The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2010 Edition)//, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = [[http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2010/entries/logic-deontic/.JMN]] “These assert that… with ◊, etc.”
The neg must prove a prohibition on the use of deadly force.
A] Prohibitions are default categorical because there is no non-arbitrary basis to prohibit some actions of the same act-type and allow others.
B] Permissibility is the default assumption. Kalef:
Justin Kalef [Professor of Philosophy, Vancouver Island University], Comment on “Shifting Burdens of Proof in Practical Ethics,” August 5, 2009. [[http://peasoup.typepad.com/peasoup/2009/07/shifting-burdens-of-proof-in-practical-ethics.htmlJMN]] “Ok, I’ll bite…away from permissibility.”
Next, domestic violence exists within a social context created by intersections of systems of power. Bograd:
Michele Bograd, [PhD, Psychologist] “STRENGTHENING DOMESTIC VIOLENCE THEORIES: INTERSECTIONS OF RACE, CLASS, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, AND GENDER”, Journal of Marital and Family Therapy, July 1999,VOl.25, NO.3. RK “Through development of…batterer of color.”
First, morality demands the acknowledgement of multiple perspectives since only that accounts for the complexity of ethical experience.
Iris Marion Young, [Was Professor of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_Science|__Political Science__]] at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Chicago|__University of Chicago__]], and affiliated with the Center for Gender Studies and the Human Rights program there.] “Justice and the Politics of Difference”, Princeton University Press, 1990. Google Books. RK “The strategy of…cannot be unified.”
Second, acknowledging power inequalities precedes the possibility of ethics.
Jane Flax, [Professor of Political Science at Howard University], “Race/Gender and the Ethics of Difference”, Political Theory Vol. 23 No. 3, August 1995, RK. “Constructive debate about…shared in common.”
Third, ethical theories that don’t account for structural inequalities can never be a guide to action.
Young 2: “The attempt to…liberal capitalist societies.”
Oppression is definitionally immoral.
Young 3: “Group representation, third…tends to silence.”
S- undermining structural oppression
<span class="UnderlineBold">A: Internal oppression</span>
<span class="UnderlineBold">Victims kill their abusers because they are trapped in a web of abuse from which they can’t escape. </span>
Joan B. Kelly and Michael P. Johnson, “DIFFERENTIATION AMONG TYPES OF INTIMATE PARTNER VIOLENCE: RESEARCH UPDATE AND IMPLICATIONS FOR INTERVENTIONS”, FAMILY COURT REVIEW, Vol. 46 No. 3, July 2008 476 –499. RK “The Violent Resistance…their intimate partners.”
B: External Oppression
An intersection of power hierarchies of race, class, gender, and culture prevent victims from seeking help from the criminal justice system.
Bograd 2: “While discussion of…as child custody.”
These power structures also impede victims from accessing alternative means of safety such as social services and shelters.
Bograd 3: “Furthermore, when certain…for that protection.”
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C: The use of deadly force undermines structural oppression. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Deadly force gives the victim a choice in a situation where they already have little control. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bograd 4: “However, it is…vulnerability to violence.”</span>
Only lethal self-defense is sufficient, otherwise oppression is only perpetuated.
Elizabeth Ayyildiz, [J.D.,Chicago-KentCollegeofLaw,1995;B.,UniversityofVirginia,1991.], “WHEN BATTERED WOMAN'S SYNDROME DOES NOT GO FAR ENOUGH: THE BATTERED WOMAN AS VIGILANTE”, JOURNAL OF GENDER & THE LAW, Vol. 4, 1995. “To some, the…by the abuser.”
==Negative== 
===Natural Law NC=== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Deliberate acts, like the victim’s use of deadly force, have purposes that make the actor rationally interested in taking them. Such purposes are rooted in basic human goods. </span>
Germain Grisez, Joseph Boyle, and John Finnis, “Practical Principles, Moral Truth, and Ultimate Ends,” 32 Am. J. Juris. 99 1987. “We distinguish between…instantiate basic goods.”
This requirement generates a stronger principle of morality, which requires that we never choose against a basic good.
Grisez-2: “Even morally bad…receiving full attention.”
S- First Principle of Morality; one must only choose options whose willing is compatible with a will toward integral human fulfillment
The deliberate use of deadly force is, in itself, directed against life. But life is a basic good.
Grisez-3: “As animate, human…on to others.”
The prohibition on deliberate killing does not rule out self-defense.
Grisez-4: “However, a rule…is finished off.”

===Victims Word PIC=== 
Representations of our language affect our ability to act effectively and interact with others. Helen Haste, [PhD of Psychology at the University of Bath], “Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality”, 1998. NC “Communitarian thinkers start…than a person.”
The counter-advocacy is to reject the //victim’s// use of deadly force and embrace the //survivor’s// use of deadly force to repeated domestic violence.
First, framing the abused as “victim” denies women their humanity.
Jennifer L. Dunn [Professor of Sociology at Southern Illinois University], "“Victims” and “Survivors”: Emerging Vocabularies of Motive for “Battered Women Who Stay”" Sociological Inquiry Vol. 75, Issue 1, p. 1-30(Dec 2004) FD “Barry discussions what…things are done.”
Second, the rhetoric of “victim” causes a loss of agency, instructing others to perceive the abused as a helpless, passive, individual.
Dunne 2: “In sum, the…competent efficacious actor.”
<span class="Underline">Third, “victim” denotes entrapment while “survivor” implies decision making and agency. </span>
Dunn 3: “early images of…of a victim?”

===Basic Goods NC=== 
I negate. We must act for basic goods.
Germain Grisez, Joseph Boyle, and John Finnis, “Practical Principles, Moral Truth, and Ultimate Ends”, American Journal of Jurisdiction vol. 32, 1987. RK “even when one’s…instantiate basic goods.”
This generates a stronger principle of morality, which requires that we never choose against a basic good.
Grisez 2: “Even morally bad…receiving full attention.”
The standard is the first principle of morality, which requires that one only choose options whose willing is compatible with a will towards the full set of basic goods.
First, deliberate killing requires the killer to take an attitude towards life that does not respect human fulfillment.
Grisez, Germain. [Former <span style="color: #333366;">Professor of Christian Ethics at Mount Saint Mary’s University in Emmitsburg, Maryland</span>], “Toward A Consistent Natural Law Ethics of Killing.” AmJJruis 15 [1970]. “In this nonutilitarian…to take human life.”
But, human life is a basic good. Grisez 4:
Germain Grisez, [Former Professor of Christian Ethics at Mount Saint Mary’s University in Emmitsburg, Maryland], //The Way of the Lord Jesus// Vol. 1, RK “Rational reflection supports...oneself by acting.”
According to New Oxford American Dictionary, deliberate acts are “done consciously and intentionally,” so the aff’s version of self-defense is impermissible because the killer intends the attacker’s death and not just self-preservation.
Justice Robert Hunter, [Judge of Court of Appeals of North Carolina], //State vs Stitt//, [[http://caselaw.findlaw.com/nc-court-of-appeals/1503763.html]]. FD “First-degree murder…by direct evidence.”
The killer’s ultimate end should be only self-defense and not the death of the attacker. McMahan:
Jeff McMahan, [Professor of Philosophy at Rutgers], “Revising the Doctrine of Double Effect”, Journal of Applied Philosophy, Vol.11, No. 2, 1994. RK “One problem with…is quite plausible.”

===Coercive Control NC=== 
Most reasons for accepting a principle have to do with epistemic evidence for the principle’s truth, but we can also have pragmatic reasons for belief. Jordan:
Jeff Jordan, [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Delaware], "Pragmatic Arguments and Belief in God", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2011 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2011/entries/pragmatic-belief-god/>. JMN “As with so…that God exists.”
Those pragmatic reasons can be about the consequences of our beliefs but also about the language used to state them. Representations of our language affect our ability to act effectively and interact with others.
Helen Haste, [PhD of Psychology at the University of Bath], “Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality”, 1998. NC “Communitarian thinkers start…than a person.”
The unconditional counter-advocacy is to reject the victim’s use of deadly force in situations of domestic violence and embrace the victim’s use of deadly force in situations of coercive control.
1. The domestic violence model assumes that women cannot leave because of physical assault, but conceals the oppressive aspect of abuse, translating into disastrous consequences for victims.
Evan Stark, [Professor of Human Services and Chair, Department of Urban Health Administration at Rutgers University], //Coercive Control: How Men Entrap Women in Personal Life//, Oxford University Press, 2007. BB “The limits of…process of normalization.”
2. Coercive control” acknowledges the oppressive and cumulative aspect of intimate terrorism that “domestic violence” bluntly ignores.
Stark 2: “The easiest way…doing for themselves.”
Alt solves 100% of the aff so you should vote on a net benefit even if it doesn’t link to a standard
Discourse argument functions as both a link and an impact. It’s a link because it means language counts as a source of pragmatic reasons for belief, so my advocacy is competitive by net benefits. But it’s also a pre-fiat reason to negate: if language shapes reality, then you should reject the resolution’s language because this is the only real-world impact in the round.

===Disclose or Lose=== 
Interpretation: <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">All debaters with coaches must disclose tags and citations for all evidence read for offensive positions that have been broken on the NDCA wiki at least one hour before the round.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Violation: Your cites are not on the wiki.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Standards:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">1. Argument quality</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">A) Disclosure checks back the element of surprise which encourages bad arguments.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">B) Disclosure improves second line argumentation b/c people know opponents will have better responses</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">2. Evidence ethics- disclosure is the only way to prevent evidence distortion before it occurs.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Voter:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">A) Advocacy skills- only purpose of debate is to make us better advocates.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">B) Deterrence- punishing them with a lose deters abusive practices in the future.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">C) Role of the judge- Judge has an obligation as a critic to punish the abusive debater</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">D) Positive feedback loop- voting for the shell will cause more disclosure.</span>

===Methodology K=== 
Section 1- Links
A] Commonsense morality trumps the sweeping generalizations of grand moral theories.
McMahan, Jeff. “Moral Intuition,” Blackwell Guide to Ethical Theory (1999) “It is important…surrender our intuition.”
B] Commonsense moral discourse makes metaethics pointless.
<span class="UnderlineBold">Enoch, David. [Professor of Philosophy at Hebrew University], “Against Quietism,” early version of Taking Morality Seriously. Oxford, 2011. “A similar point…of metanormative discourse.”</span>
<span class="UnderlineBold">C] </span>Metaethics is incoherent because it tries to transcend the first-order discourse it describes.
Enoch-2: “Quietist worries are…it is elsewhere.”
D] Top heavy debate is bad
Section 2
There is no faculty of philosophical knowledge over and above common sense.
Scott Soames, [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Southern California], Philosophical Analysis in the Twentieth Century, Vols. 1 & 2. Princeton New Jersey: Princeton University Press. 2003. JMN “As Moore saw…ourselves to know.”
<span class="UnderlineBold">Philosophical evidence can’t be used to prove or disprove common sense.</span>
<span class="UnderlineBold">G.E. Moore, [Former Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cambridge], Principia Ethica, Ch. 5, 1903. JMN “We cannot tell…must be self-evidence.”</span>
Even the most knockdown argument in the world has an initial assumption, which cannot have more authority than common sense.
<span class="UnderlineBold">Will Lycan, [Visiting Professor of Philosophy at the Victoria University of Wellington], “Moore Against the New Skeptics”, Philosophical Studies 103 (1):35 – 53, 2001. JMN “But there is…to the skeptic.”</span>
Section 3- Alt
I advocate a return to commonsense. Soames 2 summarizes the alternative: “The effect of…to be true.”
Terminal Impacts
# 1. Exclusiveness in debate
# 2. Advocacy skills
A] Challenging attitudes about domestic violence is necessary to galvanize Americans and enact real change.
Ethel Klein, [Former Professor at Harvard University], Jacquelyn Campbell, Esta Soler, Marissa Ghez, //Ending Domestic Violence: Changing Public Perceptions/Halting the Epidemic//, SAGE Publications Inc., 1997. RK “However, the vast…and drunk driving.”
B] Comparing fundamental assumptions is key to shining light on domestic violence and bringing it out of the private sphere.
Klein 2- “Individuals everywhere must…calling it unacceptable.”
C] Top heavy debate excludes advocacy skills. These skills especially relevant on this topic.
<span class="Underline">Jeffrey L. Edelson, [Professor and the Director of Research at the University of Minnesota School of Social Work], “CHILDREN’S WITNESSING OF ADULT DOMESTIC VIOLENCE”, Journal of Interpersonal Violence, 1999. RK “</span>Straus (1992) has…a child’s development.”
I control uniqueness- institutions ignore the problem.
California Women’s Law Center, “Teen Dating Violence: An Ignored Epidemic”, Policy Brief funded by a grant from The California Wellness Foundation (TCWF), [[http://www.cwlc.org/files/docs/policy_brief_teen_dating_violence.pdf]], 2001. RK “The failure to…their adult lives.”
We need meaningful discussions within the debate community to advocate and promote social action.
Klein 3- “These results are…and community action.”
Voting issue
# 1. Precedent
# 2. Role of the ballot

===Domestic Violence NC=== 
Most reasons for accepting a principle have to do with epistemic evidence for the principle’s truth, but we can also have pragmatic reasons for belief.
Jeff Jordan, [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Delaware], "Pragmatic Arguments and Belief in God", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2011 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2011/entries/pragmatic-belief-god/>. JMN “As with so…that God exists.”
Representations of our language affect our ability to act effectively and interact with others.
Helen Haste, [PhD of Psychology at the University of Bath], “Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality”, 1998. NC “Communitarian thinkers start…than a person.”
This is empirically proven- the language associated with domestic violence is crucial to solve abuse and ensure victims are protected.
Kim Fountain et al [PH.D, Deputy Director New York City Anti-Violence Project], "Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer Domestic violence in the united states in 2008" The National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs www.avp.org/documents/2008NCAVPLGBTQDVReportFINAL.pdf FD “Definitions are important…such violence accountable.”
The counteradvocacy is that its morally permissible for victims to use deadly force as a deliberate response to repeated intimate partner violence.
First, the term “domestic” creates hetero-normative tendencies excluding LGBT victims--- the domestic violence laws in California proves.
Fountain 2: “To describe violence…crafting the law.”
Second, the term “domestic” justifies continued violence against the victim because it “domesticizes” the private sphere, which makes the abuse immune from the law.
Jenny Rivera [Professor of Law at the City University of New York] Violence Against Women Act and the Construction of Multiple Consciousness in the Civil Rights and Feminist Movement,”, 1995. FD “Violence against women…protect male domination.”
Third, the term “domestic violence” disguises the criminal nature of the violence. Only the term intimate partner violence solves.
Heather Douglas “Crime in the intimate sphere: prosecutions of intimate partner violence” 7 newscastle l. rev 80 (2004) “In this paper…any other person.”
Finally, any risk of using the word “domestic violence” destroys discourse.
Mary Louise, journalist with the //London Morning Paper//, 4 ([[http://www.newswithviews.com/guest_opinion/guest32.htm]]) “Doublethink, or reality…patrol our neighborhoods.”

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
===Scarf AC=== 
Observation 1: The affirmation of the resolution does not imply that other tools are not available for the situations where they would be effective.
Observation 2: The actor in the resolution is the state.
1. Only states may have foreign policy tools.
2. Targeted killing is defined in the topic literature as a state tool.
<span class="Underline">Matthew Morehouse, [Political Science at the University of Nebraska], “ Hellfire and Grey Drones: An Empirical Examination of the Effectiveness of Targeted Killing”, [[http://digitalcommons.unl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1007&context=poliscitheses]], 5/1/11. FD “In regards to…of law enforcement.”</span>
V-M
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">First, states may no longer cling to national sovereignty as an excuse to ignore human rights</span>.
Violence and justice in a global age[[http://www.opendemocracy.net/author/david-held|David Held]], 13 September 2001 Co-Director, Centre for the Study of Global Governance and Graham Wallas Professor of Political Science at the London School of Economics. “In short, boundaries…of specialized agencies.”
Second, promoting the protection of rights respects the unconditional value of rational beings. Cummisky explains:
Kantian Consequentialism By David Cummiskey Published by Oxford University Press US, 1996 ISBN 0195094530, 9780195094534 192 pages “In such a…to save many.”
V/C- protection of rights.
Contention 1: In principle, targeted killing is key to the preservation of rights. Matthew Morehouse, studied the link between targeted killings and terrorism in the most comprehensive study to date. His study is the best for three reasons.
# 1. Data range
# 2. Geographic range
# 3. Controls
Morehouse -1 “Several interesting conclusion…for this study.”
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">After doing some math, this means the use of targeted killings have killed over 1000 terrorists in six years. </span>
1] ORGANIZATIONAL BEHAVIOR. Targeted killings have caused terrorist leaders to take refuge in larger cities, where they believe they are safe from the risk of U.S. drone attacks.
Morehouse 2: “There has been…the article above.”
2] GOVERNMENTAL POLITICS. Targeted killings have lead to the creation of power vacuums, which in turn have lead to intra-terrorist conflicts over leadership.
Morehouse-3: “It appears that…different terrorist organizations.”
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Targeted killing is the most feasible option. </span>
Benjamin Wittes [Senior fellow in Governance Studies at The. Brookings Institution and co-director of the Harvard Law School], and Ritika Singh, [<span style="color: #333333;">Research assistant on law and national security issues at the Brookings Institution.</span>] “Drone Are A Challenge- And An Opportunity”, http://www.cato-unbound.org/2012/01/11/benjamin-wittes/drones-are-a-challenge-and-an-opportunity/print/ <span class="Underline">, 1/11/2012. RK: “Advancing technology allows…seriously at risk.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contention 2: In practice, targeted killing is necessary to combat terrorism in Somalia. Targeted killing will push al-Shabab and al-Qaeda in Somalia over the brink to destruction. </span>
Washington Post, “US drone strike targeting an ‘international’ fighter kills 4 militants in southern Somalia”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/africa/reports-of-air-attack-said-to-kill-4-militants-in-southern-somalia/2012/02/24/gIQAzzK2WR_story.html]], 2/23/2012. RK “A U.S. official…in recent years.”
Drone strikes are key to solving terrorism once and for all.
International Business Times, “Obama Afghanistan War Policy to Shift to Covert, Drone Tactics”, [[http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/172130/20110630/afghanistan-withdrawal-afghanistan-drawdown-drone-strikes-yemen-strikes-somalia-strikes-drone-covert.htm]], June 30 2011. RK “Obama’s recently announced…the intelligence community.”
Contention 3: The impact of allowing Somalia’s al-Qaeda to continue undisturbed severely implicates human rights.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">First, al-Shabab’s presence in Somalia has caused massive human rights violations. </span>
Catholic Online, [Al-Shabab Manhandles parts of Somalia with its iron grasp], [[http://www.catholic.org/international/international_story.php?id=44915&utm_source=catholic.org%2Fhomepage&utm_medium=banner&utm_content=latest%2Bnews]], 2/26/2012. RK “The militant Islamist…address these problems.”
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Second, Al-Qaeda presence in Somalia causes increased terrorist attacks and training grounds. </span>
Catholic Online: “Cameron also warned…boat he said.”
The impact is that TERRORISM KILLS THOUSANDS.
James Barth, “Economic Impacts of Global Terrorism: From Munich to Bali,” Milken Institute October 2006 Report. “Terrorism has been…90,000 casualties worldwide.”
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">An increase in terrorism increases the risk of nuclear terrorism.</span>
Francesco __Calogero__, [member of the Governing Board of the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), from 1989 to 1997 he served as Secretary General of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affair, and in that capacity he accepted (Oslo, 10 December 2005), on behalf of Pugwash, the 1995 Nobel Peace Prize jointly assigned to Joseph Rotblat and to Pugwash “for their efforts to diminish the part played by nuclear arms in international politics and in the longer run to eliminate such arms.” Speech given at the Nobel Peace Prize Centennial Symposium: "The Conflicts of the 20th century and the Solutions for the 21st century" at the Holmenkollen Park Hotel Rica, Oslo, December 6-8, 2001, Session 6 (December 7): “Militarism and arms races -- Strengthen arms control and disarmament.” “The acquisition of…hard to envisage.”
And, nuclear terrorism risks escalation to global nuclear war.
Louis Rene Beres [Professor, Political Science, Purdue University], “TERRORISM AND GLOBAL
SECURITY: THE NUCLEAR THREAT”, 1987, p. 47 “Nuclear terrorism could…the following scenario.”
NUCLEAR WAR IS THE BIGGEST IMPACT IN THE DEBATE – I LINK TO EXTINCTION
Lachlan Forrow and Victor W. Sidel [Both – Albert Schweitzer Fellowship and Physicians for Social Responsibility], “Medicine and Nuclear War,” Journal of the American Medical Association, August 5, 1998 – Vol. 280, No. 5.
“As the 1980s…in the South.”


==Negative== 
===Pakistan DA=== 
A- Uniqueness- Obama administration is planning on continue use of drone strikes in Pakistan.
Missy Ryan, [Acting Bureau Chief, Mexico and Central America, Reporter], Mark Hosenball, [Journalist], “US pushed ahead with drone strikes despite Pakistani resistance”, Reuters, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/02/22/usa-pakistan-drones-idUSL2E8DD75R20120222]]. 2/22/2012. RK “Following the November…the Pakistani Taliban.”
B- Link: Drone strikes are obstructing cooperation and stability in Pakistan.
David Cortwright, [Director of Policy Studies, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Professor of Economic sanctions and incentives, United States and United Nations policy in Iraq, nuclear nonproliferation, nonviolent social change, University of Notre Dame], “License to Kill”, Cato Institute, [[http://www.cato-unbound.org/2012/01/09/david-cortright/license-to-kill/]], 1/9/2012. RK “Drone strikes and…in both countries.”
Ryan and Hosenball 2: “The strike that…Pakistan’s tribal areas.”
C- Impact: Pakistani instability results in Indo-Pak nuclear war.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 2007 </span> (Stephen John, Former Member of British Labour Party Executive Committee; political psychologist; researcher of Chaos/Complexity Theory, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?” [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]) “Fundamentalism is deeply…against the US.”
The brink is now- Pakistan is on the verge of collapse and drone strikes will push things over the edge.
David Rohde, [New York Times Reporter], “The Obama Doctrine: How the President’s Drone War is Backfiring”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/02/27/the_obama_doctrine?page=0,4]], March/April 2012. RK “For me, the…Obama took office.”

===Afghanistan DA=== 

Uniqueness: The US is currently increasing drone capacity to carry out further strikes.

Craig McMurtrie, [North America Correspondent], “US Sending More Drones to Afghanistan and Pakistan”, ABC Radio Australia, [[http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/connectasia/stories/201202/s3441504.htm]], 2/28/2012. RK “Despite international concerns…meet the demand.”

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama is authorizing targeted killings not of suspected terrorists but of dealers of opium in Afghanistan. This causes backlash against U.S.-Afghanistan officials and destroys Afghanistan legal credibility</span>.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hentoff</span> 11/24/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span> (Nat, member of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, “Obama’s Extra-Judicial Killers Subvert American Values”, Milford Daily News and www.cato.org, accessed June 25 2010) “As he has…a war on?”

Citizens will backlash and undermine Afghanistan stability by resisting US-Afghanistan officials authority through organized crime and the opium trade.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Durch 2</span> (William J., Co Director project on the future of the PKO @ Stimson Cent. “Afghanistan: Keeping the Peace Without Hardly Trying” [[http://www.stimson.org/fopo/pdf/Afghan_KeepingPeaceWithoutTryingrev112602.pdf]]), 2001. “In the Afghan…guaranteed without it.”

Destabilization of Afghanistan will cause major external powers to get involved causing nuclear war.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blank 2k</span> (Stephen J., Exepert on Post-Soviet States @ Strat Stud Inst. “American Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region,” World Affairs. [[http://www.findarticles.com/cf_dls/m2393/2_163/67046851/p1/article.jhtml?term|www.findarticles.com/cf_dls/m2393/2_163/67046851/p1/article.jhtml?term]]) “Thus many structural…settling the situation.”


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]