[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1ACs== 
===1AC - MDA=== 

**Contention 1 is Grand Strategy 2.0**
**US maritime strategy is collapsing now – budget cuts and a weaker fleet is destroying US naval influence and deterrence globally – the impact is global instability – US naval power is the proximate check on global conflict escalation**
**Whiteneck and Clark, ’11** [Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-02|Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296]]</span>, SM]
In light of global economic and strategic realities, here’s how the Navy of the future might look. American sea power is clearly coming to a crossroads. Demand for naval forces is rising as U.S. ground troops withdraw from the Middle East and maritime competitions heat up in the Western Pacific and Indian oceans. Federal budgets are tightening while the Navy is becoming increasingly expensive to build and maintain. With this widening gap between resources and demands, the United States may have to fundamentally change what it expects from sea power. Some missions or platforms may be left behind to protect the nation’s most vital maritime capabilities. A new national strategy may be needed to sustainably pursue America’s security interests. The challenge facing national leaders is whether this new direction will result from a series of ad hoc decisions or be guided by careful assessment of what America will really need from its naval forces. From an international perspective, 2011 is a good time for just such a discussion. Twenty years after its end, the Cold War’s coiled spring of superpower tension, alliance competition, and political brinksmanship has finally unwound. Since 1989, dozens of regional wars boiled over, freed by the removal of superpower rivalry and its threat of nuclear escalation. Transnational terrorists arose, empowered and enraged by the same economic and social forces that helped dismantle the Soviet Union. And the United States tried to take advantage of its fleeting “unipolar moment” to remake a part of the world in its own liberal democratic image. The dust is now clearing from these effects of the Soviet Union’s demise, leaving America with an opportunity to make choices for the world ahead. The role of sea power is clearly one of those choices. The Center for Naval Analyses’ (CNA) Tipping Point study provides a framework to consider what the United States might want from sea power in the future—and the limits on what its Navy will be able to deliver.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-02/strategic-choices-tipping-point#footnotes|1]]</span> Since World War I, sea power for America has meant a global Navy. But federal budgets are flattening, and a legitimate concern is whether the Fleet can continue to be global and provide needed sea power, or whether the Navy is nearing a tipping point after which it can no longer protect the nation’s interests. The CNA study explores that concern by considering different naval operating patterns in the context of tomorrow’s security challenges. It then evaluates how well the projected size and mix of the Navy can meet the demands for ships and aircraft created by these operating patterns. At its heart, the study asks how we should plan to use the future Fleet. This question and its answers are not academic. New ships or aircraft take 10–20 years to design and build and will spend up to 50 years in service. America’s choices for sea power today will create constraints or opportunities for future Presidents and combatant commanders. Sea Power’s Growing Importance—and Risk The ability to protect and control the maritime commons gives unparalleled influence and underpins global systems of trade and commerce. For a number of reasons, today we take this freedom for granted—but that is changing. For example, the increasing effectiveness and reach of piracy and proliferation of long-range and sophisticated antiship weapons show us more emphasis on sea power will be needed to continue protecting the commons. Meanwhile, sea power is becoming more important to American strategy. Over the next decade, the United States wants to reduce its footprint ashore in the Middle East while maintaining the ability to attack terrorists in places like Yemen, deter adversaries such as Iran, and support new partners in Iraq and Afghanistan. And influencing outcomes in the Pacific and Indian oceans requires a credible naval capability to defend our forces and allies and project power against aggressors. Events over the past decade, however, didn’t help prepare the Navy for its rising importance, as U.S. attention and resources were devoted to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. During that time annual Navy budgets grew from $118–$147 billion, but this largesse did not translate into a larger or newer Fleet.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-02/strategic-choices-tipping-point#footnotes|2]]</span> It went instead to cover rising operating and personnel costs. Spending for operations and maintenance increased by about 20 percent since 2000, in part because of growing global commitments to fight terrorism and support troops in the Middle East. Personnel costs rose over the past decade, even though the Navy shrank by 15 percent. And while the procurement budget has stayed steady, the price of each new ship or aircraft is 3 to 10 times more than its predecessor.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-02/strategic-choices-tipping-point#footnotes|3]]</span> Today, the Navy cannot afford to buy 15 or more ships each year, as it did during the Reagan administration when half were large surface combatants or submarines.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-02/strategic-choices-tipping-point#footnotes|4]]</span> It can afford to buy about ten, and half of those are small combatants or support ships.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-02/strategic-choices-tipping-point#footnotes|5]]</span> As a result, the Feet is now at 286 ships, down from 344 in 1998.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-02/strategic-choices-tipping-point#footnotes|6]]</span> The demands, though, have not eased. The Navy has maintained a little more than 100 ships deployed overseas continuously since that time. With a shrinking Fleet, this means each ship works longer and harder with less-frequent maintenance—a predictable result being today’s much-publicized problems in surface-ship condition.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-02/strategic-choices-tipping-point#footnotes|7]]</span> Another result is that the number of ships under way around the United States for homeland defense and training dropped from an average of 60 in 1998 to 20 today. There is no more “surge” left in the Fleet. Combatant commander requests go unanswered more frequently, and each new material problem ripples through the schedules of dozens of ships as the Fleet scrambles to support the most urgent overseas demands. What Do We Want from a Global Navy? With the U.S. Navy at its operational limits and its core of destroyers, tactical aircraft, and submarines shrinking, each procurement decision significantly affects what the future Navy can accomplish. Providing direction to these investment choices requires an understanding of both what America will need from sea power, and what the country will be able to support. With the long lead time and multi-decade service lives of ships and aircraft, changing course in Fleet architecture in response to new demands will be very difficult. This challenge will be exacerbated if options to buy different platforms are foreclosed by a lack of industrial capacity or procurement funds. To help explore the future demands for American sea power, the CNA study assumed America would need its Navy to remain globally influential. By analyzing historical “global navies,” the study translated this need into three main requirements: dominance, readiness, and influence. A dominant naval force must be compared with its potential adversaries and challengers. For centuries, this meant the capability to exert sea control when and where needed, to sustain operations in these areas indefinitely, to support and influence operations on land, and to ensure freedom of movement for the nation’s military forces. A global navy is a ready navy. Both its deployed and surge forces are trained, manned, and adequately equipped. They are deployed globally so they can be ready to quickly respond to crises. They also have the capacity to call in forces from other global deployments to areas of instability or to serve as a home fleet that can surge forward for major operations. Deployments by a global navy are routine for shows of force to deter and reassure or to express interest and resolve. Presence and readiness make global naval forces routine responders to humanitarian crises and disasters. A global navy is influential. It exerts international leadership in peacetime and in war. It provides a framework for coalition operations. It is a visible force for reassuring allies and partners that a global navy’s government is committed to them and that it has resolved to place its military forces in harm’s way in their support. It is a force flexible enough to exert influence at any point over the range of operations, from a show of force to deter a regional threat to the imposition of a blockade, or the use of naval power to project force and dominate an adversary. While a global navy’s multimission ships, aircraft, and people are trained and equipped for major combat operations, most of the time they exert influence through a range of less stressing activities such as exercises and maritime security operations. A global navy performs those missions routinely to reassure allies, engage new partners, and tangibly express its nation’s interest. Maritime forces have advantages over land and air forces in influencing events abroad because of their inherent flexibility, their visibility without heavy footprints ashore, their self-sustainability, and their routine interactions with other maritime forces. A global navy is an instrument of a global power interested in political stability and economic activity around the world. The U.S. Version of a Global Navy For six decades the U.S. Navy has translated the need for maritime dominance, readiness, and influence into the forward presence and combat credibility of naval forces. Forward presence enhances America’s ability to promptly influence or respond to events abroad and visibly signals U.S. interests. The capabilities and characteristics of deployed naval forces provide a wide range of options to U.S. leaders for action in several dimensions of national power, not just military operations. The combat credibility of U.S. naval forces is a consistent element of maritime strategy as well. Credibility derives from capabilities such as surface and antisubmarine warfare from ships, submarines, and aircraft; precision strike from the sea; and sustained amphibious operations. The Navy enhances the credibility of these capabilities through superior capacity, strategic and tactical mobility, kinetic and non-kinetic options, tailorable force packaging, long-term sustainability, defense in depth, and the ability to command and control across a range of operations and international partners. Forward presence and combat credibility are set in motion by the U.S. Navy through the ongoing deployment of aircraft carriers and amphibious forces for influence ashore, surface ships and submarines for sea control, and aircraft and submarines for intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance. Logistics ships and a network of overseas bases and access agreements allow these forces to be sustained indefinitely. Just as significant is where these forces are and in what numbers. Since the 1950s, global U.S. Navy presence has consisted of combat capability in two hubs (the Western Pacific [WESTPAC] and the Mediterranean throughout the Cold War and WESTPAC and the North Arabian Sea/Persian Gulf since Desert Storm). Successive presidential administrations saw these areas as home to long-standing U.S. political and economic interests, allies in need of reassurance, and adversaries and competitors to be deterred. To back up these forward-deployed forces, the Navy has maintained the capacity and flexibility to surge additional forces from the continental United States and other parts of the globe to address emerging conflicts and crises. Independent deployers outside the two hubs have been used for engagement activities and exercises in South America, Africa, and Europe. Since the Korean War, the Navy has ranged from more than 1,000 to fewer than 300 ships, but the importance of forward presence and combat credibility to the Navy’s strategy has been a constant. To be forward is to be ready, and to be combat-credible is to be dominant and able to control escalation and de-escalation at any level of confrontation. The global reach and ambitions of the Navy also have never changed—to be absent is to be without influence. How Will We Exert Sea Power in the Future? The deployment patterns of the CNA study represent ways in which navies have arrayed their fleets in the past and provide a lens through which we can examine the security needs of the future. For the U.S. Navy, these deployment models should be evaluated in terms of how well they address American security and national interests, whether they are sustainable economically or politically, and whether they reflect the expectation future leaders will have about the need for a global navy. The emerging environment includes a wide range of challenges. Strong states such as China compete with America politically and could challenge the United States militarily. Regional aggressors such as Iran or North Korea routinely threaten their neighbors and could become future U.S. adversaries. The war against Islamic radical terrorism will likely continue for years. Poorly governed areas and weak states will continue to sustain groups that threaten local and regional security. The global air, maritime, and cyber commons are under threat from capabilities such as proliferating antiship and surface-to-air missiles, precision-guided mortars and rockets, modern submarines, computer-network attack, and electronic warfare. America will expect the Navy to exert maritime dominance and influence in the face of these challenges. This will include shows of force to deter regional challengers, ballistic-missile defense and exercises with allies and partners for reassurance, and maritime security to protect commerce. The Navy also will be expected to evacuate non-combatants from failing states, counter piracy and terrorism, and interdict or attack weapon proliferators. Allies will continue to look to the United States for training, partnership, and leadership of coalition operations, while the U.S. governmental agencies will want the Navy to provide effective platforms for their initiatives. The Navy’s ability to meet those demands and expectations will be constrained in several ways, but most important, in the financial dimension. Discretionary federal budgets will have to shrink—unless revenues can substantially increase—to address growing deficits and non-discretionary social spending. This will limit the options for maintaining Fleet capacity or adjusting its mix toward the higher end of large surface combatants, fifth-generation fighters, and submarines. Is There a ‘Tipping Point?’ Obviously there is no exact point at which a navy ceases to be globally influential or at which it can no longer address the nation’s interests. But if history is any guide, we will know it when we see it. In particular, a global navy must continue to deter adversaries, stop aggression, and reassure allies—the last requirement possibly being the most crucial. A global navy also must be able to foster and maintain partnerships with other countries and protect the global commons from diffuse threats such as piracy or terrorism. These demands require a Fleet with credible combat capability able to intervene at the locations where these interests intersect. When the U.S. Navy can no longer do so, it will indeed be at a “tipping point.”

**Maritime Domain Awareness cements global cooperation and creates global partnerships over naval security – that allows the US to cooperatively address threats**
**Truver, ’11** [Dr. Scott C. Truver is Director, National Security Programs, Gryphon Technologies, Greenbelt, Maryland. In addition to his support to national security and defence organisations in government and industry, he supports the US Navy’s MDA programmes in research , analysis and engagement efforts. Edward Feege of Gryphon’s National Security group assisted in the research for this overview. “On the Other Side of the Hill? Global Partnerships for Maritime Domain Awareness…The View from the United States”, by NMCO on NOVEMBER 9, 2011, http://www.mda.gov/2011/11/09/on-the-other-side-of-the-hill/, Accessed 11/23/11]
A GLOBAL FOCUS IS NEEDED, TOO From the US perspective, relationships that have worked domestically also must be applied internationally. As former Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Gary Roughead repeatedly emphasised: “Personal trust is indispensible to partnerships at home and abroad – trust cannot be surged.” The US MDA community of interests is based on tile understanding that a global perspective based on trust is needed to ensure that we can detect and deal with threats that originate in or take advantage of the vastness of the oceans. Only through collaboration and cooperation will we be able to ensure that these global threats and challenges can be dealt with as far from our shores as possible. To deal with these threats and challenges, world Navies and Coast Guards require accurate and timely information on what is occurring in their maritime areas of operations. In regional and global perspectives, a shared awareness of activities within the maritime domain is key to mutual success. MDA thus is critical for success against all threats in maritime regions, anywhere. Information sharing is thus a key focus of the USN’s efforts to build trust and strengthen MDA partnerships. “There are two aspects of these MDA partnerships”, Titley said. “First, we need partnerships to enable access and build on local knowledge of the maritime environment, to know what’s going on in coastal states’ EEZ and territorial seas, in ports and harbours, and in ships and cargoes. The MDA supply chain has greater reach than the coastal/littoral environment and extends to internal waters and even landlocked states, where threats to our security, which use the seas as means of conveyance, can originate.” “Second,” he noted, “these MDA partnerships serve as an entry point for broader relationships that can enhance security across the board. We have common interests and we confront common threats and challenges. We can expand and improve shared capacity and capabilities to defeat common threats and challenges and safeguard common interests.” “Acquiring and sharing information and intelligence with a broad array of global maritime partners sustains cooperation and builds the trust required to ensure the safety, security and economic vitality of all who hold membership within global maritime community of interest“, he said. “The trust is not built over night, but through sustained collaboration and security cooperation measures and processes, such as the Maritime Safety and Security Information System [MSSIS].” MSSIS is a freely shared, unclassified, near real-time data collection and distribution network. Its member countries share data from Automatic Identification Systems CAIS), coastal radar, and other maritime-related systems. MSSIS promotes multilateral collaboration and data sharing among international participants, with a primary goal of increasing maritime security and safety (see figure 3). “International efforts [also] include participation in exercises like TRIDENT WARRIOR’ II,” Titley added. “We partnered with the United Kingdom and France to successfully share maritime information using internationally agreed upon National Information Exchange Model-Maritime [NIEM-M] common data standards and models.” NIEM is a joint Department of Justice/Department of Homeland Security programme started in 2005, created to promote standardisation of information exchange for cross-jurisdictional inforn1ation sharing. NIEM provides the tools used across DRS for enabling interoperability at the data layer within and across systems supporting information sharing, while preserving investments in current technology and optimising new technology development. Another example is the Global Maritime Partnership Game held in October 2010 at the US Naval War College. Senior-level representatives from more than 40 nations attended, mostly from Navies and Coast Guards. But, other representatives were from agencies that are considered key contributors to MDA, e.g., customs and border security, port authorities, fisheries enforcement, and search and rescue organisations. “In fact”, Titley underscored, “every nation with a coastline and a willingness to share information can play important roles in local, regional and global maritime security. Every coastal state comes to the table with assets that can make important contributions to security. These don’t have to be aircraft carrier strike groups.” The issue of classified or sensitive data continues to be a concern. Within constraints, however, the USN intends to share as widely as possible accurate and timely information to shape our and our partners’ ability to protect important interests in the maritime domain. Most countries, including the United States, require additional assets to increase and sustain presence for maritime security. Increasingly, this means active and energetic engagement in regional and global partnerships. Partnerships reduce requirements spread responsibilities, and give small nations equal status. MDA is an organising principle for world Navies and coast guards. It brings us all to a common table. And, there appears to be a growing need to link these and other partnerships together into regional and global systems, as illustrated figure 4. Effective MDA will be the keystone of cooperative US and international efforts to counter maritime threats through regional and global partnerships, according to Titley. “Because certain risks and interests are common, facilitation of regional maritime partnerships occurs with full recognition and acceptance that our allies and partner nations may not share all of our goals, but we’ll find common purpose in countering transnational threats and securing peaceful use of the maritime commons.”
||   ||   ||   ||


**Cooperation is the lynchpin of effective naval power – US maritime cooperation key to maintain control over the sea despite budget cuts**
**Moore 10** [Charles C. Moore, Naval Aviator, Western Pacific Experience, has a Masters from the US Army War College and Georgetown, currently commanding office at the Naval Air Station in Meridian. "Revitalizing the Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower, 2007, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/Articles/2011summer/Moore.pdf]
Summary The Cooperative Strategy remains a relevant foundational strategy document. It clearly defines six core capabilities (ways) that the Navy will master to secure the end states of preventing wars and building partnerships. What it lacks is specification of the necessary force requirements (means) to achieve these end states and an outline of potential maritime adversaries and threat scenarios. By not defining these requirements, the Navy risks losing the initiative because it doesn’t clearly articulate the strategy environment to policy makers and the public in order to create an essential base of support for a long-term shipbuilding plan in a period that is certain to see defense spending reductions. The approaching era of reduced defense spending is a global problem that can be mitigated in the maritime domain through close navy-to-navy coordination. Coordinating capabilities with our closest partners will mitigate shortfalls for both sides, and will better define and justify US naval force requirements going forward. Defense spending will decrease, but the Navy’s operational tempo is certain to increase, especially as ground forces are reduced in the Middle East. The time for the Navy to act is now, lest it risk having these crucial decisions being made by others.

**Increased economic pressures and growing deficits mean hegemonic collapse is inevitable – budget cuts will force an end to unipolarity**
**Mandelbaum, ’10** [Michael Mandelbaum is the Christian A. Herter Professor of American Foreign Policy at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, PhD from Harvard Foreign Affairs. May/June 2010, “Overpowered?”, SM]
Whatever the quality of the analysis underlying it, however, Preble's vision of a more modest U.S. foreign policy, which Matlock and Gallarotti share, is destined to be adopted. The United States will do less, perhaps much less, beyond its borders in the next two decades than it has in the last two. This retrenchment will not come about because the views of the founders have gained currency among the wider U.S. public or as the result of the disappointments and failures of recent U.S. military interventions. The principal cause will be the fiscal condition of the United States. The country will bear the burden of a huge and growing national debt, from three principal sources: the chronic deficits from 2001 to 2008, the very high costs of coping with the financial crisis of 2008 and the recession it dramatically deepened, and, most important, the skyrocketing bill for Social Security and Medicare as the baby-boom generation becomes eligible for these entitlements. The Bush administration, it is worth noting, was directly responsible for the first of these sources, indirectly responsible for the second, and did nothing to reduce the costs of the third. Under the eyes of eternity, therefore, the greatest damage that the administration will be seen to have inflicted on the United States' position in the world will come not from the Iraq war, about which so much ink has been spilled (including in the three books under review), but rather from its profligate fiscal policies. There are four ways to address a deficit: by borrowing, by reducing spending, by raising taxes, and by printing money. Because the second and the third have proved politically impossible and the fourth would be economically ruinous, the United States has relied on the first. But it will not always be able to borrow all the money required to fill the gap between the government's expenditures and its revenues. At some point, taxes will have to rise and spending will have to fall. Fewer resources will be available for all other programs, including foreign policy. In these circumstances, with Americans paying more to the government and receiving fewer benefits from it, popular support for an expansive foreign policy will decline. The public will insist more strongly than at any time since before World War II on using its dollars for domestic, rather than international, purposes. It will not permit expensive military interventions leading to state-building exercises, such as those in Afghanistan and Iraq. It will not support the kind of humanitarian interventions, to rescue people under assault from their own governments, that the Clinton administration undertook in the 1990s in Somalia, Haiti, Bosnia, and Kosovo. The nation's growing fiscal burden is also likely to put pressure on its most important international missions -- its military presence, which helps keep the peace, in East Asia, Europe, and the Middle East, places where instability could seriously harm U.S. interests. The prospect of a reduced U.S. presence around the world does not disturb Matlock, Gallarotti, or Preble. Each is confident that other countries will step forward to fill any geopolitically perilous vacuum that a more modest U.S. foreign policy creates. With the passing of what they regard as the wantonly unilateralist Bush administration, all see great potential for more extensive international cooperation. All believe, that is, that other countries will risk lives and spend money in pursuit of goals they have in common with the United States. Perhaps eventually they will, but the first year of the presumably kinder, gentler, more multilateral Obama administration yielded little evidence of a willingness on the part of others to share the United States' global burdens. If, as Washington pulls back, others do not step forward, the world is all too likely to become both more disorderly and less prosperous. In that case, the verdict on the state of the world in the year 2030 may differ sharply from the judgment these three books pass on the last 20 years. Whereas their common theme is the dangers that arise when the United States has too much power, their successors two decades from now will be chronicling the even worse -- perhaps far worse -- consequences of the United States' having too little of it.

**US strategic retrenchment is inevitable and Global naval cooperation is critical to manage it – allows to manage global stability in a world without a global US presence and avoiding the flaws of offshore balancing by maintaining US influence**
**Hoffman, ’08** [November 2008, From Preponderance to Partnership: American Maritime Power in the 21st Century, Frank Hoffman is a retired Marine officer with 30 years of experience in policy development, strategy and force analysis, and consulting, SM]
Our maritime forces have to be designed to support an overall grand strategy. America’s Cold War grand strategy of containment was no longer needed after 1989, and a strategy best described as “preponderance” evolved during the Bush administration. The logic of preponderance required American policy makers to amass military power in order to dissuade other great powers from emerging or even contemplating arming themselves to contest U.S. primacy. 4 9 This strategy has focused largely on military power, and the unilateral application of force to maximize U.S. strategic freedom of action. Arguably, America’s primacy has been a source of stability that many have benefited from. But in a world in which power is distributed more widely, with new players on the global scene, where America’s preeminence is challenged in myriad ways, preserving or extending preponderance as an operative framework will be increasingly difficult. The world, in the words of Robert Kagan, is becoming normal again. 50 As the tragedy of 9/11 showed, our traditional military might can be contested by new modes of warfare that bypass the Pentagon’s tanks, aircraft carriers, and stealth bombers. Chinese and Russian assertiveness on the global stage —and the spiraling risks of nuclear proliferation from North Korea, Iran, and Pakistan —indicate that nations can and will find ways of contesting American influence. Additionally, America’s strategic position, based upon its economic competitiveness and human and physical infrastructure, is eroding relative to others’. 51 However, the need for leadership (and indeed a reluctant sheriff) is readily apparent. 52 Some strategists have argued that America should stop trying to preserve the “unipolar moment” and embrace an alternative grand strategy. Strategies of “restraint” and “offshore balancing” are offered. 53 These approaches focus on ensuring that America avoids entanglement in the internal or regional affairs of others. Instead of risking overstretch by the extensive costs of posturing military forces around the globe, offshore balancing focuses first on our own narrowly defined interests in our region. Other regions would be expected to provide for their own national and regional security commensurate with their interests. The major regional powers would police themselves. Advocates of this approach would withdraw from most, if not all, of America’s treaties and security obligations, and limit forward-based forces, which would permit a sizable reduction in U.S. military forces. The problem with the strategies of restraint and balancing is that they overlook current geostrategic circumstances. Today’s challenges and the integrated globalized economy do not support the detached posture and cold calculations suggested by either approach. Since 9/11 we have learned that small events and under-governed areas have big consequences. We have learned that geography and our oceans no longer protect us the way they once did. Due to the interdependent networks of financial, energy, and information systems, American interests in many areas are not trivial or secondary, but crucial. Finally, history suggests that regions do not police themselves and that we cannot stand idly by while other regional powers satisfy their ambitions at our expense. As noted in a United Nations report, “in today’s world, a threat to one is a threat to all. Every State requires international cooperation to make it secure.” 54 Balancing from a great distance does not generate international cooperation or develop the necessary capacity to maintain the sinews of international economic activity. We need to recognize that America’s interests and future prosperity are interdependently tied to others. So many of today’s challenges are transnational in nature and cannot be met without the cooperation and efforts of others. Furthermore, so much of our success and security is tied to reliable access to the global markets, commercial networks, trade routes, and cyber communications that constitute today’s “global commons.” 55 We need not act as if we own or dominate these commons, but we must actively ensure that access to them is reliably secure for everyone. Thus more collective frameworks, which reflect shared interests and cooperative approaches, appear warranted today. Adapting the Maritime strategy and Naval Forces for an Interdependent World Our maritime forces should be adapted to support this more cooperative approach. Rather than balance from afar, we can help others help themselves and bind them to an international system and a set of rules that benefit all. Partners need not commit to one hegemon over another, but they should be able to commit to a rule set that maintains global order and a mutually prosperous system of trade and commerce. Rather than standing back as free riders, a larger regional community of interest can be motivated to collaborate in the day-to-day maintenance of the basic commons. With respect to maritime forces this means seeking multilateral combinations to deal with maritime security, commerce, smuggling in narcotics and humans, criminal activity, and counterproliferation. Hopefully, when either natural or state-based challenges to the commons arise, the habits of cooperative support, coupled with a sense of common interest, will engender a greater collective response to threats to stability. Such an approach emphasizes cooperative concerts and flexible arrangements built around maritime partners to support mutual interests in maintaining order. Partners are not asked to support American hegemony as a transactional payment, but the international economic and maritime security system itself. This indirect approach, which I call “Off Shore Partnering,” requires forward engagement and regular, interactive dialogue and cooperation with all possible partners. Off Shore Partnering requires earlier and proactive involvement at local levels, not detachment or reactive responses. It requires working with and through others over the direct or unilateral application of U.S. power. Local approaches to local and global problems are sought, not merely transplanting U.S. templates to various regions. Furthermore, it does not assume U.S. operational leadership in day-to-day activities. Finally, Off Shore Partnering provides for an inherently flexible posture while minimizing our political or military footprint. 56 Over time our force posture must be retooled to maximize flexibility and adaptability. 57 We will accrue numerous benefits from this shift in posture. Maintaining a flexible approach over fixed commitments avoids the counterbalancing so evident today, builds more positive relationships over intrusive obligations, and reduces the costs of fixed military presence to both our hosts and the American taxpayer. The adoption of a more indirect approach will increase our reliance on maritime assets as well as the Special Operations community. It will also allow us to adapt how we use our forces. This military posture and presence should be used more as a positive tool for “proactive engagement” over static positioning or belated crisis response. 58 A more expansive view of our posture is needed to secure long-term goals of sustained stability, access to markets and resources, and secure access to the global commons to connect the two. 59 Thus, the United States will be more secure, and global stability better sustained, if America shifts its maritime forces consistent with Off Shore Partnering on behalf of a sustainable grand strategy. This strategy relies upon the global reach and capability of our maritime services to work with others to preserve and extend security via multilateral approaches. On balance, the Cooperative Seapower Strategy is very consistent with Off Shore Partnering. The new maritime strategy is long on globalization’s fragility, and the role of maritime forces in securing the seas from disorder and disruption. The benefits that the global community gains from our persistent forward maritime presence are manifestly clear, as is the shared responsibility to maintain the global commons. The only distinction between the new maritime strategy and Off Shore Partnering would be in the priorities of the missions required and the “Rather than balance from afar, we can help others help themselves and bind them to an international system and a set of rules that benefit all.”

**Disengagement causes great power nuclear conflict - security breakdowns.**
**Monteiro 2012**
Nuno M., Assistant professor of Political Science at Yale University, Unrest Assured, International Security, Vol. 36, No. 3 (Winter 2011/12), pp. 9–40, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Unrest_Assured.pdf]]</span>
In sum, disengagement opens the door to regional competition, leading to wars involving both minor and major powers. If incomplete, disengagement will also result in wars involving the unipole, similar to the ones described in the previous two sections. The United States has not pursued a strategy of global disengagement since the end of the Cold War in 1989. Scholars therefore have no empirical record against which to test the conflict-producing mechanisms resulting from a disengagement strategy. Foreign policy analysts, however, have written about the potentially devastating effects of a disengaged United States. Stephen Rosen argues that U.S. disengagement would lead to nuclear proliferation and arms races in Asia and the Middle East. He concludes that the alternatives to American empire would be even less appealing. Fareed Zakaria writes that disengagement would produce “a world in which problems fester and the buck is endlessly passed, until problems explode.” Similarly, Michael Mandelbaum writes that U.S. disengagement “would deprive the international system of one of its principal safety features, which keeps countries from smashing into each other.” Niall Ferguson calls this situation “apolarity” and describes “an anarchic new Dark Age; an era of . . . civilization’s retreat into a few fortified enclaves.” Robert Lieber, with more detail but no less gloom-and-doom, describes the potential consequences of U.S. disengagement as follows: In Asia, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan would have strong motivation to acquire nuclear weapons—which they have the technological capacity to do quite quickly. Instability and regional competition could also escalate, not only between India and Pakistan, but also in Southeast Asia involving Vietnam, Thailand, Indonesia, and possibly the Philippines. Risks in the Middle East would be likely to increase, with regional competition among the major countries of the Gulf region (Iran, Saudi Arabia, and Iraq) as well as Egypt, Syria, and Israel. Major regional wars, eventually involving the use of weapons of mass destruction plus human suffering on a vast scale, floods of refugees, economic disruption, and risks to oil supplies are all readily conceivable. U.S. policymakers understand this logic, too. American forces are stationed around the world following what Josef Joffe calls the “pacifier logic,” according to which only the presence of forces external to the region can stave off acute security competition, which could eventually lead to conflict. This logic underpins U.S. security guarantees in Asia (to Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan) as well as in Europe and the Middle East.

__**Advantage 2: South China Sea**__
**US engagement in the South China Sea is inevitable, shifting to multilateral cooperation is key to solve the perception of containment.**
**Ross 10-25-11**
Robert S., professor of political science at Boston College and an associate at the John King Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies at Harvard University, Chinese Nationalism and Its Discontents, The National Interest, http://nationalinterest.org/print/article/chinese-nationalism-its-discontents-6038
THE TRUTH is China is neither particularly militarily strong nor particularly domestically stable. Beijing’s combative diplomacy was not spurred by American economic weakness in the wake of the recession, and it was far from an indicator of growing Chinese confidence. On the contrary, in recent years Beijing has not deployed and operationalized significant new advanced naval capabilities, and its domestic economic environment is worse today than at any time since the onset of the post-Mao economic reforms in 1978.
Beyond its coastal waters, China’s naval capability remains dependent on its advanced diesel submarines, which were first deployed in the mid-1990s. By 2000, China’s submarine force had already begun to pose a formidable challenge to U.S. naval operations in the western Pacific Ocean. But since then it has not deployed any additional naval capabilities that pose consequential new challenges to the U.S. Navy or to America’s defense of its security partners. China still cannot independently manufacture advanced military aircraft, and it has yet to deploy a single Chinese-designed advanced aircraft. The J-15 and J-20 fighter planes are still in development. It has finally launched its first aircraft carrier, but it does not have aircraft for the carrier. Its antipiracy naval operations off the coast of Somalia are basic. Its protection of its claims in the South China Sea depends on coast-guard ships. China is developing potentially effective advanced-technology maritime access-denial capabilities, including an improved missile capability, but none of it has yet been adequately tested, much less deployed. Its antiship ballistic-missile program is not operational. China’s space program is making great progress, but the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) hasn’t developed the capacity to significantly challenge U.S. space-based communication capabilities or hasn’t built its own space-based war-fighting capability. The PLA is developing drones and air-based radar systems, but again these and other such defense projects remain relatively primitive or experimental. China will continue to modernize its military capabilities, and it will eventually deploy advanced systems that may challenge U.S. security and regional stability, but Beijing’s new diplomacy cannot be explained by thirty years of defense spending and military modernization.
Nor does the strident diplomacy reflect Chinese economic confidence. At the height of the global financial crisis, the Chinese economy continued to grow at approximately 10 percent per year. But beneath this facade of prosperity, China’s economy was weakening significantly. In October 2008, as the global recession deepened, Chinese leaders unleashed a massive but dysfunctional stimulus program. Not only did it fail to resolve most of the deep-seated problems in the system, it also managed to foster many new ones. Despite the stimulus, unemployment in China remains high in rural areas and among urban college graduates. In 2010, Premier Wen Jiabao estimated that there were 200 million unemployed Chinese. Moreover, during the past two years, inequality—by international standards—has become extremely high. As a result of the stimulus, inflation has soared, affecting the price of food, housing and transportation. By last year, China’s property bubble had significantly worsened, the condition of national banks had deteriorated more than at any time in the past ten years and local government debt had skyrocketed. Economic growth has increasingly relied on government-stimulated investment, not on consumption—which fuels even-greater inflation. More worrying still, the state-owned sector is expanding at the expense of the private sector, thus undermining innovation while politicizing economic policy making. These are all protracted problems which together suggest that social instability in China will grow and that the Chinese Communist Party’s economic-based legitimacy will significantly erode.
Beijing’s problems are only exacerbated by the fact that the tools of Chinese repression are deteriorating. In the past five years, the number of spontaneous small- and large-scale demonstrations has mushroomed. More recently, the Internet has undermined the government’s ability to control information—and to minimize nationwide hostility toward the party. It has become an effective device for people to communicate their ire over unemployment and inflation, as well as over political and economic corruption, police brutality, criminal cover-ups, environmental degradation and property seizures. In addition, peer-to-peer microblogging (via Twitter and its Chinese equivalents) can facilitate large-scale, independent and impromptu mass protests. China made its first arrest for a microblog post back in September 2010 during the rallies against Japan’s detention of the Chinese fisherman. Economic instability and the erosion of the Communist Party’s control over society are occurring simultaneously. This domestic weakness has forced the government to rely more and more on nationalism for regime legitimacy—and it explains Beijing’s diplomatic blundering.
As the Chinese people witness their relative position in the world increasing (particularly in light of the decline of Japan), the United States is seen as the obstacle to China’s international acceptance as a great power, so that Washington is gradually replacing Tokyo as the focus of nationalist resentment. With its influence waning, the party is now more vulnerable to growing strident nationalist opposition. Since January 2010, on the web and in newspapers, nationalists have demanded Chinese international assertiveness before the government can even consider a policy, putting Chinese leaders on the defensive. Indeed, in recent years nationalism has become more widespread in urban areas, infecting not just the military and disaffected youth but also workers, intellectuals, civilian leaders and businesspeople. Moreover, Internet communication technologies enable Chinese nationalists to interact with each other and can facilitate popular protests against Chinese foreign policy, thus magnifying the importance of nationalism and the danger it poses to regime stability. China’s insecure rulers, preoccupied with domestic stability, are thus compelled to pay evermore attention to nationalist triumphalism as they formulate foreign policy.
For the first time since the death of Mao Tse-tung, Chinese leaders have had to choose between using nationalism and strident diplomacy to accommodate their domestic audience and using China’s peaceful-rise strategy to accommodate the international community. Until recently, China opted for the latter. But since 2009 the party’s effort to appease China’s nationalists has resulted in a bumbling foreign policy that has aroused global animosity and undermined China’s security.
THIS NATIONALIST diplomacy bred considerable anxiety among America’s allies in East Asia. Did Washington have the will to sustain its strategic presence and balance China’s rise? A robust U.S. diplomatic response was in order. But the United States went too far, challenging China’s security on its continental periphery, creating the potential for protracted great-power security conflict and heightened regional instability.
Following the North Korean sinking of the South Korean naval ship Cheonan in March 2010 and China’s failure to publicly condemn Pyongyang for the attack, the United States developed a series of effective initiatives in maritime East Asia designed to reaffirm its resolve to contend with the rise of China. Many of these initiatives were necessary and constructive. In late June, for the first time since the end of the Cold War, three U.S. nuclear-powered submarines surfaced simultaneously in Asian ports. In July 2010, during former secretary of defense Robert Gates’s visit to Jakarta, the United States agreed to expand military cooperation with Indonesia. In November, during Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s trip to New Zealand, the United States agreed to reestablish full military cooperation with the Pacific island nation, despite New Zealand’s ban on visits by nuclear-powered ships to its ports. The United States expanded military relations with the Philippines and strengthened its commitment to the protection of Japan. During Sino-Japanese tension over the fishing-boat-captain incident, Hillary Clinton stated that the U.S.-Japan defense treaty covered military contingencies involving the disputed Senkaku Islands administered by Japan but also claimed by China. Subsequent to the release of the captain, Washington and Tokyo carried out their largest-ever joint naval exercise. Here then was a strong America reassuring its allies—this may have encroached on China’s grand ambitions, but it was an expected and appropriate response.
But then there was the overly assertive Washington that launched, in Hillary Clinton’s formulation, its “forward-deployed diplomacy.” It was a volte-face of years of American policy, and it was seen as a growing—and very different sort of—challenge by Beijing.
During the George W. Bush administration, the United States reduced its troops in South Korea by 40 percent, removed its forces deployed between the demilitarized zone and Seoul, dramatically reduced the size of the annual U.S.-South Korean joint military exercises and stated in the Department of Defense’s Quadrennial Defense Review that in 2012 the United States would transfer to Seoul operational command (OPCOM) of South Korean forces. These steps, regardless of the administration’s intentions, created a China that was more secure on its periphery.
Now, the Obama administration has reversed course. The transfer of OPCOM to South Korea has been deferred for at least three years. Throughout 2010 the United States conducted a series of high-profile, large-scale military exercises with Seoul, including maritime drills in waters west of South Korea. Later in the year, the United States and South Korea signed the new “Guidelines for U.S.-ROK Defense Cooperation,” which called for enhanced combined exercises and interoperability between the two armed forces. These developments all suggested a determined U.S. interest in reestablishing a significant conventional military presence on the peninsula.
The U.S. security initiative with South Korea has eroded Beijing’s confidence over its strategic relationship with Seoul; China is now increasingly dependent on North Korea as its only reliable ally on the peninsula, and it has become more resistant to Korean unification for fear that it could lead to an expanded U.S. military presence closer to China’s border. Chinese leaders now place ever-greater value on stability in North Korea. Rather than use its economic leverage on Pyongyang in cooperation with U.S. nonproliferation objectives, Beijing has increased its support of North Korean economic and political stability.
And in July 2010, as a U.S.-South Korean naval exercise took place in the Yellow Sea, Hillary Clinton launched a new U.S. strategic initiative for Southeast Asia at an Asian regional-security meeting in Hanoi. After Washington held extensive consultations and planning with all of the claimants of the Spratly Islands except China, Secretary Clinton announced America’s support for a “collaborative diplomatic process” to resolve the dispute. The move constituted a sharp rebuke to Beijing, which has long claimed sovereignty over the territory, and suggested U.S. intervention in support of the other claimants, which have advocated multilateral negotiations. In addition, the United States had previously expressed support for stability in the South China Sea, but only in Washington, DC, at the assistant-secretary level, and never through prior discussion with any of the involved nations.
The administration’s forward-deployed diplomacy also includes strategic cooperation with Vietnam. For over twenty years Washington parried Vietnamese overtures, understanding that Indochina is not a vital interest. Yet, in August, after Clinton’s support in Hanoi for Vietnamese resistance to Chinese maritime claims, the U.S. Navy, including the aircraft carrier USS George Washington, held a joint training exercise with the Vietnamese navy for the first time. In October, Secretary Gates visited Hanoi, where he proclaimed the potential for expanded U.S.-Vietnamese defense cooperation and his hope that Vietnam would continue to participate in military exercises with the United States. Later that month, Clinton returned to Hanoi and declared U.S. interest in developing a “strategic partnership” with Vietnam and in cooperating with the country on “maritime security.” She then visited Phnom Penh and urged Cambodia to establish greater foreign-policy independence from China. In addition, for the first time the United States expressed support for the Indochinese countries’ efforts to constrain Chinese use of the headwaters of the Mekong River.
Beijing is now intent on punishing Vietnam for its hubris in cooperating with the United States. It wants to compel Hanoi to accommodate Chinese power. In 2011 it escalated the frequency and scale of its armed harassment of Vietnamese fishing ships operating in disputed waters, causing increased bilateral tension and damage to the Vietnamese fishing industry. China also stepped up its naval harassment of Philippine economic activities in disputed waters. But in response, the United States has only reinforced its commitment to the Southeast Asian countries. In July 2011 it held another military exercise with Vietnam. Then it again sent an aircraft carrier to visit the country, and the Pentagon reached its first military agreement with the Vietnamese military. The Pentagon is also assisting the Philippines’ maritime intelligence capabilities in the South China Sea. China’s deputy foreign minister Cui Tiankai recently warned that some Southeast Asian countries were “playing with fire” and expressed his “hope that the fire will not be drawn to the United States.”
Washington is thus engaged in an increasingly polarized conflict in Southeast Asia. But more important, independent of the course of the South China Sea maritime disputes, U.S. collaboration with Vietnam’s effort to use America to oppose China is not only costly but also foolish. Vietnam’s common land border with China, its maritime vulnerability to the Chinese navy and its economic dependency on Beijing ensure that the United States will not be able to develop meaningful defense cooperation with Vietnam. But having engaged China in this regional diplomatic tussle, any U.S. effort to disengage from the island conflict by encouraging moderation on the part of its Southeast Asian partners would risk being viewed as a strategic retreat.
The Obama administration’s greater security cooperation with countries on the mainland’s perimeter is a disproportionate reaction to Chinese nationalism. It is not reflective of any recent improvements in Chinese naval capabilities that could challenge U.S. maritime dominance. Nor does it reflect an increased strategic importance of the Korean Peninsula or Indochina for U.S. security. Since 1997, the United States deployed increasing quantities of its most advanced weaponry to East Asia and consolidated security cooperation with its maritime security partners, all the while maintaining significant U.S.-China cooperation. That was a productive policy.
But now Chinese leaders are reevaluating U.S. intentions. They have concluded that the United States is developing a forward-leaning policy of encirclement and containment. Regardless of Washington’s intent, recent American actions have provided ample evidence to support China’s claims.
BEIJING’S NATIONALIST diplomacy is dangerous. America’s ill-conceived response makes it even more so. China is militarily vulnerable to the United States, and the regime is vulnerable to internal instability. At this point, Washington is embroiled in territorial disputes over worthless islands in the South China Sea and is expanding its strategic presence on China’s periphery. And in an era when Chinese cooperation is increasingly important, Washington is needlessly challenging Chinese security.
Just as America expects China to restrain its security partners in the Middle East and Asia from exacerbating conflict with the United States, America has the responsibility to rein in its security partners as well.
The balance of power in East Asia is a vital national-security interest, and the United States must reassure its strategic partners that it will provide for their security, despite the rise of China. The United States military must continue to focus its weapons acquisitions and deployments on maintaining U.S. security in the region. The task at hand for American policy is to realize these objectives while maintaining U.S.-China cooperation. Chinese nationalism will continue to challenge U.S. foreign policy for a long time to come. This will require the administration to acknowledge both America’s maritime superiority and China’s domestic and international vulnerabilities, and thus exercise confident restraint and resist overreaction to Beijing’s insecure leadership.

**Maritime domain awareness is key to transition from the hub/spokes system in Asia. Provides framework for cooperation.**
**Noivong 2011**
Thassarany, Doctoral program Graduate School of Media and Governance Keio University, Japan, "Moving Beyond 'Hub-and-Spokes' System: US-ASEAN Non-Traditional Security and Multilateral cooperation", A Paper presented at Third Global International Studies Conference 17-20 August 2011 University of Porto, Portugal, pg 25-30, http://www.wiscnetwork.org/porto2011/papers/WISC_2011-499.pdf
Despite the significance of the Southeast waterways for the US economy and politic in the region, the US had not considerably provided system-wide maritime security and protection of the world's sea-lanes until the 9/11 attack. The resurgence of piracy in Southeast Asia at the end of the 1990's did not prompt an immediate or active response from the US. The US maritime strategy in the Southeast Asia focused instead on its traditional role of preparing for naval warfare with great power competitors or for the Korean Peninsular crisis.33 In the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks, however, the US has increasingly recognized the threat posed by piracy especially in combination and linkage with maritime terrorism, requiring the US to take more active role.
In 2004, the US Pacific Command (PACOM) proposed the 'Regional Maritime Security Initiative' (RMSI) to help ASEAN states to tackle with maritime security threats and other transnational security challenges such as terrorism, human-drugs trafficking, including nuclear proliferation through regional multilateral defense cooperation. According to Admiral Thomas Fargo, the PACOM Commander, RMSI would focus on creating a partnership of willing regional nations with varying capabilities and capacities to identify, monitor, and intercept transnational maritime threats under existing international and domestic laws.3-
RMSI, however, was rejected by Indonesia and Malaysia due to the concerns over external powers' role and US military intervention to sovereignty and territoriality. Although Singapore actively supported an active security role for external powers in maritime security, RMSI proposal was finally dropped out of cooperative security agenda.
Nevertheless, maritime security cooperation has been reaffirmed by the US defense secretary, Robert M. Gate during the 2011 Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore as an issue of particular importance of the region, with questions about territorial claims and the appropriate use of the maritime. The US has positioned on maritime security, national interest in freedom of navigation, and equal access to international waterways, which means all nations' common interests to increase common security, responsibility, and multilateral cooperation in the Asia Pacific.15 Up to the presence, the US's 'hub-and-spokes' has played a role in maritime security operation through networks of exercises conducted between the US marine and regional allies.
1. The Cooperation and Readiness Afloat And Training (CARAT)' - The annual series of bilateral exercises started in 1995 with support of the Commander-in-Chief, the US Pacific Fleet and the Commander, and the US Seventh Fleet. The military exercise pairs up the US (US Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard) with 6 ASEAN members (Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines, Singapore and Brunei) in order to consolidate several annual regional exercises under the 'hub-and-spokes' system into a single deployment and promote interoperability between the US and ASEAN allies in maintaining security of Southeast Asia SLOCs. Not only enhancing mutual understanding among participating nations, CARAT also increases operational readiness, sharing of information and tactics, as well as enhancing capabilities of Navy forces.
The participating navies are called on to work together in real-world operations through various scenarios - piracy attacks, hijacking, and terrorism. The exercise has continued to expand to the participation of civilian counterparts like medical teams. Moreover, it includes now other NTS cooperation such as humanitarian assistance, in disaster relief, armed robbery, piracy, drug smuggling, human trafficking, oil bunkering and terrorism (since 2004). This makes the CARAT participates to earn mutual benefit from broad spectrum of maritime cooperation that potentially expand to emerging security threats under the existing security tiles among the US and ASEAN.
2. The Southeast Asian Cooperation Against Terrorism (SEACAT)' \ 2002) - The ASEAN-led sea-based exercise has contributed to regional cooperation on terrorism and transnational crimes at sea including piracy. As the CARAT, the SEACAT is conducted annually among the navies of the US and 6 ASEAN; Brunei, Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines. Through the SEACAT exercise, the US has contributed tactics and techniques training of the US Navy and Coast Guard to ASEAN members in anti-piracy operation. The exercise not only build professional and personal relationship among participants that help strengthen anti-piracy effort, and other transnational crimes, but also enhance sharing of information, intelligence, surveillance system and use of information technologies in multilateral way. The US has actively promoted 'Maritime Domain Awareness' that will enable regional security forces to identify, track, capture, and deter pirates more easily.36 After the SEACAT exercise in 2006, Lieutenant Commander Anuar Mohamed of the Royal Malaysian navy affirmed that the exercise is important because it helps enhancing operations and understanding of how each other countries work, while offering solutions and plans that should be taken against the exercise's rogue vessels.
The role of the US in SEACAT exercise 2011, held in Sulu sea, the Philippines, is significant not only in maritime security through sharing of maritime cooperation skill and air and naval assets per se, but also has significant implication on the current South China Sea tensions between China and ASEAN (Vietnam, Philippines). The US was called to expand military and political support to Southeast Asian in particular the Philippines during the increasing maritime tension in the sea with China. Former Navy captain Sen. John McCain has urged the Obama administration that although the US has stance not to interfere in territorial dispute, its support to ASEAN members in maritime is considered significant not only to secure SLOCs, but also preventing China's 'aggressive behavior' and 'unsubstantiated territorial claims' for recent tensions.37
3. "Western Pacific Naval Symposium' (WPNS) (1988) - The cooperative symposium includes 18 members; 8 ASEAN (Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam), Australia, the US, China, Japan, South Korea, France, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Russia, and Tonga (observers -Canada, Chile, and India). The WPNS was originally a forum that promoted mutual understanding among regional navies and cooperation in Western Pacific on maritime security issue through generating flow of information and opinion.35 As being administered by the United States Pacific Command (USPACOM), the WPNS reflects how the US presence in the region can contribute to regional NTS cooperation. The symposium is recently growing into a regular shore-based and sea exercises and as the basis of US-led security in the Asia-Pacific.
The WPNS is a part of the USPACOM's security strategy in the Asia-Pacific in the Post-Cold War, which emphasizes the increasing role of the NTS challenges in the US policy toward this region. PACOM characterized the Asia-Pacific as the region with remarkable level of relative stability and continuity. However, the region is still facing many potential challenges such as transnational extremism, terrorism, extensive military expansion, arms proliferation, transnational crimes/piracy, humanitarian crises, natural disaster, historic animosity, territorial dispute, and environment problems. The PACOM's Southeast Asia strategy has focused on intelligence fusion, interoperation and information sharing as important tools. Such strategy will strengthen US-ASEAN military-to-military relationships and sharing of naval capabilities in addressing challenges to maritime security. The US and its partners are taking important roles against violent extremism, transnational crimes, while enhancing security and domain awareness around economically significant waterways such as the Straits of Malacca.39
Conclusion:
The expanding ASEAN-led security cooperation and readjustment of the US-led 'hub-and-spokes' arrangement in the Asia-Pacific reflect that the existing security arrangements or institutions are neither sufficiently resourced nor adequately be able to deal with the changing nature of security challenges in the post Cold War particularly due to many transnational (NTS) threats. Since 1990s, many developments in the Asia Pacific have brought about changes in the Asia-Pacific security architecture in term of both the ensuing uncertainty about the relevancy and role of ASEAN, as well as future of the US commitment in the region.
Despite the end of the Cold War confrontation, the traditional security challenges such as regional powers competition and the rising China, potential regional arm race, (maritime) territorial dispute, Korean peninsular-Taiwan Strait issue, and WMDs still have significant implications on states' security-political strategy/policies like the time ASEAN and the US 'hub-and-spokes' were created. However, the Asia-Pacific states are now facing the growing and exposed NTSs challenges that have inevitably pressuring changes in regional security cooperation in the post Cold War.
The emergence of economic insecurity, growing numbers of environmental challenges, transnational crimes, terrorism, and human insecurity have invoked ASEAN institutional adaptability, redesigned security cooperative mechanisms, including redefined national policies. Since 1990s, ASEAN has gradually adopted additional security dimensions and reoriented themselves to transnational security issues. While maintaining bilateral alliance relations with the US, most Southeast Asian alliances have increasingly emphasized on how to utilize their multilateral institution in the new security environment. ASEAN has pushed effort to maintain its own relevance as a leading regional grouping, while attempting to engage the great powers (the US, Japan, and China} to maintain regional stability through various ASEAN-led cooperation,
The US with its 'hub-and-spokes' system remains a significant player, who helps maintain regional security and stability in the midst of many regional uncertainties. However, the US's policy toward the region should lie on how to balance security strategy on traditional and NTSs security challenges especially by expanding cooperation both bilaterally and multilaterally with ASEAN states and other Asia-Pacific players notably Japan and China.
By focusing on ASEAN-US military ties, the American existing military presence in the region in particular through various ASEAN-led arrangements can be utilized in addressing new security threats. The cooperation on maritime security such as anti-piracy effort is an example of how the US can move beyond its limit of 'hub-and spokes' system. The US's advantages of its military capacity can assist and supplement ASEAN members' capacity and effort in reducing maritime insecurity especially in piracy and maritime transnational crimes. The safe navigation in many Southeast Asian waters is not only significant for the US as SLOCs and economic activities, but it can also supplement the US's effort in anti-terrorism that has become more concerned after the 9/11.
The NTSs cooperation between the US-ASEAN can help both to move beyond the traditional relations of 'hub-and-spokes' without disregard on traditional security issues. With being less controversial, such cooperation potentially create closer relations, trust and confidence among participants that not only enhance regional security but also benefit to future cooperation in other issues.

**US MDA satellite capability is key to multilateral ASEAN engagement in the South China Sea specifically**
**Arthur et al 2007**
Stanley R., Retired admiral, written with the Lexington Institute’s Naval Strike forum which included many PhDs and retired high ranking naval officials, Securing the Seas: The Logic of Maritime Domain Awareness, Lexington Institute, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/library/resources/documents/Defense/the-logic-of-maritime-domain-awareness.pdf]]</span>
One region where arrangements for enhancing Maritime Domain Awareness have progressed rapidly in recent years is Southeast Asia. The vast archipelago of islands stretching from Indochina to Australia reflects both the promise and the peril of economic globalization. A third of the world’s sea-borne commerce and half of its oil moves through the Strait of Malacca and the Singapore Strait each year, making those passages critical chokepoints in the global economy. As Singapore’s defense minister Teo Chee Hean observed at a recent regional security conference, a consumer product in transit through his country’s ports might be made of raw materials from Indonesia, components manufactured in Vietnam, and software coded in India, that is destined for final assembly in China using Japanese production equipment financed with American capital. Because this intricate supply network depends on the timely movement of container ships and tankers traversing lightly policed sea lanes, it is highly vulnerable to disruption. Unfortunately, the region has more than its share of problems that might lead to such disruptions, including territorial disputes, separatist insurgencies, religiously- inspired terrorism, piracy and smuggling of everything from weapons to illegal migrants. Some analysts have also suggested that as Islamic terrorists currently operating in Southwest Asia are gradually defeated, they may shift their operations to Indonesia, the world’s most populous Muslim state. Recognizing the numerous local threats to transit and trade, the countries of Southeast Asia have begun cooperating more closely to monitor maritime developments in their area. In 2004, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore bolstered existing bilateral security agreements by agreeing to coordinate the use of their navies in patrolling the Strait of Malacca. The following year, they added joint air patrols to their maritime surveillance activities. More broadly, they have participated in a series of regional security initiatives such as the Five Power Defense Arrangements and the Western Pacific Naval Symposium aimed at building trust and cooperation among regional military forces. During 2005, nineteen navies from countries participating in the Western Pacific Naval Symposium took part in a joint military exercise that illuminated ways of improving information sharing and interoperability. These efforts demonstrate how the shared economic and security concerns of nations can support initiatives such as the “thousandship navy” concept advanced by the U.S. Navy. But there is much more that can be done in places like Southeast Asia to improve Maritime Domain Awareness, and some of the most challenging needs can only be met with U.S. assistance. For example, the United States is the only country with a constellation of satellites for tracking maritime traffic, and its submarines far surpass the intelligence-gathering capacity of any other country’s undersea fleet. Furthermore, it is the only country operating large numbers of carrier-based surveillance planes and building a robust global communications grid for the rapid transmission of military information. It thus has the opportunity to be a key player in developing Southeast Asian maritime awareness capabilities, possibly participating in the creation of a comprehensive surveillance regime that can be gradually extended outward to encompass much of the Western Pacific and Indian Ocean.

**US built MDA solves maritime energy nationalism and war – cooperative framework.**
**Collins and Erickson 2011**
Gabe and Andrew S., Associate Professor in the Strategic Research Department at the U.S. Naval War College and a founding member of the department’s China Maritime Studies Institute (CMSI), Energy Nationalism Goes to Sea in Asia, the national bureau of asian research nbr special report #31 | september 2011, http://www.nbr.org/publications/specialreport/pdf/Free/SR31_EnergySecurity.pdf
Maritime energy nationalism is a serious concern and has real potential to spark armed conflict in Asia. However, there are a number of ways to cool current friction and set the stage for more permanent diplomatic solutions. At the strategic level, Asia’s shifting security alignments position Washington to remain a central player in East Asia and become a more powerful anchor for new security architectures in Southeast Asia and the Indian Ocean. These new structures need not be defined in anti-China terms; rather, they should be defined positively. Unequivocal support for freedom of navigation and respect for the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) should be vital tenets of the new system. To bolster its position, the United States should ratify UNCLOS, a move that the U.S. Navy has long supported. There are also policy steps that pertain specifically to managing competition for maritime energy resources, as well as to assuaging regional fears that seaborne oil supplies could be disrupted by events ranging from extreme weather to piracy and hostile blockades (see Table 2). The first steps involve identifying specific threat categories, comparing regional energy security responses to date, and then assessing whether similar responses are appropriate for dealing with the threats currently faced. Many Asian countries focus on acquiring platforms such as submarines that are only suited for high-end warfare between national naval forces. Such an approach risks overlooking the reality that the highest-probability threats to energy security are best handled through multilateral action. An objective examination of such threats suggests a number of avenues for substantially boosting cooperation and offering concrete benefits for all participants. Maritime domain awareness cooperation could be based on a system that integrates information on key energy assets, such as wells, producing platforms, undersea pipelines, and processing facilities, with the locations of known weather, pirate, and terrorist threats. Coupled with production data, such a system could help stabilize regional markets by more quickly and accurately assessing the potential impacts of disruptions to energy production and transit. The system could also include a joint pirate threat database to plot the locations of attacks and anticipate future trouble spots by analyzing patterns of pirate behavior, a high-value project given the expansion of the pirate threat in the western Indian Ocean. Asian countries with offshore energy production interests in disputed areas should also consider creating joint development zones (JDZ), for which there are extensive precedents. For example, Nigeria and the island nation of São Tomé and Príncipe have created a clearly defined JDZ in the Gulf of Guinea in which resource exploitation is governed by a treaty stipulating that 60% of benefits and obligations go to Nigeria and 40% to São Tomé and Príncipe.21 To date, JDZs have been more difficult to create in Asia, particularly between China and Japan. Part of the area near the disputed Shirakaba/Chunxiao field in the East China Sea is now a JDZ, but China says it welcomes Japanese investment in the parts of the field already under development “in accordance with the relevant laws of China.”22 This condition is of course unacceptable to Japan, as it would imply Chinese sovereignty over the area.23 Similar problems would likely arise in the South China Sea between China, Vietnam, and other claimants. To reach a workable solution prior to formal demarcation, such zones could be structured as treaties that neither affirm nor deny national claims and require any commercial disputes to be handled in a neutral, third-party court system.

**South China Sea engagement solves relations and Chinese aggression in the long term.**
**Heydarian 2011**
Richard Javad, Foreign Policy in Focus contributor, The South China Sea Conundrum – Analysis, September 2011, http://www.eurasiareview.com/09092011-the-south-china-sea-conundrum-analysis/
The dynamics of U.S.-China relations will largely shape future patterns of global governance. President Obama must handle sensitive issues that involve Beijing very delicately, because any misstep could send shockwaves through the international system. Washington is already reliant on China on a number of key issues: resolution of major security challenges such as the Iranian nuclear program and North Korea; U.S. debt and financial stability; and establishing the foundation of a post-crisis global economic order. This is why the United States can’t be too aggressive in its approach to two key regional issues: China-Taiwan relations, and the South China Sea conflict. The Chinese already treat these issues as core interests, drawing red lines against any direct U.S. intervention.
Beijing is neither irrational nor reckless. Washington must understand Beijing’s unique needs and challenges, and adopt a more nuanced policy position. Ultimately, China seeks stability as it rises within the current international order. The United States should avoid a self-fulfilling prophecy of confrontation with the world’s next preeminent power. If Washington plays its cards well, it could avoid confrontation with China and further integrate China into an evolving and stable international system that reflects new geopolitical realities.
In Will the Liberal Global Order Outlast America, John Ikenberry analyzes how the current international liberal order provides a solid structure of payoffs, ultimately encouraging compliance and cooperation rather than great-power confrontation and hegemonic wars. In terms of carrots, the liberal international order provides a set of relatively stable, predictable, and transparent institutional mechanisms to facilitate trade, cooperation, and conflict resolution, especially among major powers. The cost of confronting or directly challenging the current order is simply too much: isolation, backlash from both emerging and established powers, trade disruption, and military confrontation with an alliance of status-quo powers.
But China stands out for its sheer size and rate of growth. In How to Think About China, China expert Joshua C. Ramo contends that, “China is ambitious, to be sure, but it is too insecure to be audacious yet.” According to Ramo, the United States and China need to “evolve together to serve each other’s mutual needs.”
China’s rapid ascent is creating considerable anxiety among the established powers. But the era of China’s easy growth may be approaching its end. In The Post-China World, Ruchir Sharma, a Morgan Stanley-based economist, argues that China, like Japan and other previously booming economies, is entering a stage of “economic maturity” that will feature more modest rates of growth. As a more normal rising economic giant, China might become a more mature and responsible power whose primary goal is stability and steady growth. Still, it is natural to expect greater assertiveness among emerging powers when it comes to their own regional affairs.
The South China Sea conundrum could serve as blessing in disguise if it helps to strengthen the fundamentals of ASEAN and encourage a more responsible and stable relationship between the world’s most powerful countries, the United States and China.

**The US must maintain the balance in Asia not dominance. ASEAN regionalism is key to stability.**
**Kaplan 2011**
Robert D., senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, national correspondent for the Atlantic, and a member of the U.S. Defense Department's Defense Policy Board, The South China Sea Is the Future of Conflict, Foreign Policy October/September 2011, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/the_south_china_sea_is_the_future_of_conflict?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full
Europe is a landscape; East Asia a seascape. Therein lies a crucial difference between the 20th and 21st centuries. The most contested areas of the globe in the last century lay on dry land in Europe, particularly in the flat expanse that rendered the eastern and western borders of Germany artificial and exposed to the inexorable march of armies. But over the span of the decades, the demographic and economic axis of the Earth has shifted measurably to the opposite end of Eurasia, where the spaces between major population centers are overwhelmingly maritime.
Because of the way geography illuminates and sets priorities, these physical contours of East Asia augur a naval century -- naval being defined here in the broad sense to include both sea and air battle formations now that they have become increasingly inextricable. Why? China, which, especially now that its land borders are more secure than at any time since the height of the Qing dynasty at the end of the 18th century, is engaged in an undeniable naval expansion. It is through sea power that China will psychologically erase two centuries of foreign transgressions on its territory -- forcing every country around it to react.
Military engagements on land and at sea are vastly different, with major implications for the grand strategies needed to win -- or avoid -- them. Those on land enmesh civilian populations, in effect making human rights a signal element of war studies. Those at sea approach conflict as a clinical and technocratic affair, in effect reducing war to math, in marked contrast with the intellectual battles that helped define previous conflicts.
World War II was a moral struggle against fascism, the ideology responsible for the murder of tens of millions of noncombatants. The Cold War was a moral struggle against communism, an equally oppressive ideology by which the vast territories captured by the Red Army were ruled. The immediate post-Cold War period became a moral struggle against genocide in the Balkans and Central Africa, two places where ground warfare and crimes against humanity could not be separated. More recently, a moral struggle against radical Islam has drawn the United States deep into the mountainous confines of Afghanistan, where the humane treatment of millions of civilians is critical to the war's success. In all these efforts, war and foreign policy have become subjects not only for soldiers and diplomats, but for humanists and intellectuals. Indeed, counterinsurgency represents a culmination of sorts of the union between uniformed officers and human rights experts. This is the upshot of ground war evolving into total war in the modern age.
East Asia, or more precisely the Western Pacific, which is quickly becoming the world's new center of naval activity, presages a fundamentally different dynamic. It will likely produce relatively few moral dilemmas of the kind we have been used to in the 20th and early 21st centuries, with the remote possibility of land warfare on the Korean Peninsula as the striking exception. The Western Pacific will return military affairs to the narrow realm of defense experts. This is not merely because we are dealing with a naval realm, in which civilians are not present. It is also because of the nature of the states themselves in East Asia, which, like China, may be strongly authoritarian but in most cases are not tyrannical or deeply inhumane.
The struggle for primacy in the Western Pacific will not necessarily involve combat; much of what takes place will happen quietly and over the horizon in blank sea space, at a glacial tempo befitting the slow, steady accommodation to superior economic and military power that states have made throughout history. War is far from inevitable even if competition is a given. And if China and the United States manage the coming handoff successfully, Asia, and the world, will be a more secure, prosperous place. What could be more moral than that? Remember: It is realism in the service of the national interest -- whose goal is the avoidance of war -- that has saved lives over the span of history far more than humanitarian interventionism.
EAST ASIA IS A VAST, YAWNING EXPANSE stretching nearly from the Arctic to Antarctic -- from the Kuril Islands southward to New Zealand -- and characterized by a shattered array of isolated coastlines and far-flung archipelagos. Even accounting for how dramatically technology has compressed distance, the sea itself still acts as a barrier to aggression, at least to a degree that dry land does not. The sea, unlike land, creates clearly defined borders, giving it the potential to reduce conflict. Then there is speed to consider. Even the fastest warships travel comparatively slowly, 35 knots, say, reducing the chance of miscalculations and giving diplomats more hours -- days, even -- to reconsider decisions. Navies and air forces simply do not occupy territory the way that armies do. It is because of the seas around East Asia -- the center of global manufacturing as well as rising military purchases -- that the 21st century has a better chance than the 20th of avoiding great military conflagrations.
Of course, East Asia saw great military conflagrations in the 20th century, which the seas did not prevent: the Russo-Japanese War; the almost half-century of civil war in China that came with the slow collapse of the Qing dynasty; the various conquests of imperial Japan, followed by World War II in the Pacific; the Korean War; the wars in Cambodia and Laos; and the two in Vietnam involving the French and the Americans. The fact that the geography of East Asia is primarily maritime had little impact on such wars, which at their core were conflicts of national consolidation or liberation. But that age for the most part lies behind us. East Asian militaries, rather than focusing inward with low-tech armies, are focusing outward with high-tech navies and air forces.
As for the comparison between China today and Germany on the eve of World War I that many make, it is flawed: Whereas Germany was primarily a land power, owing to the geography of Europe, China will be primarily a naval power, owing to the geography of East Asia.
East Asia can be divided into two general areas: Northeast Asia, dominated by the Korean Peninsula, and Southeast Asia, dominated by the South China Sea. Northeast Asia pivots on the destiny of North Korea, an isolated, totalitarian state with dim prospects in a world governed by capitalism and electronic communication. Were North Korea to implode, Chinese, U.S., and South Korean ground forces might meet up on the peninsula's northern half in the mother of all humanitarian interventions, even as they carve out spheres of influence for themselves. Naval issues would be secondary. But an eventual reunification of Korea would soon bring naval issues to the fore, with a Greater Korea, China, and Japan in delicate equipoise, separated by the Sea of Japan and the Yellow and Bohai seas. Yet because North Korea still exists, the Cold War phase of Northeast Asian history is not entirely over, and land power may well come to dominate the news there before sea power will.
Southeast Asia, by contrast, is already deep into the post-Cold War phase of history. Vietnam, which dominates the western shore of the South China Sea, is a capitalist juggernaut despite its political system, seeking closer military ties to the United States. China, consolidated as a dynastic state by Mao Zedong after decades of chaos and made into the world's most dynamic economy by the liberalizations of Deng Xiaoping, is pressing outward with its navy to what it calls the "first island chain" in the Western Pacific. The Muslim behemoth of Indonesia, having endured and finally ended decades of military rule, is poised to emerge as a second India: a vibrant and stable democracy with the potential to project power by way of its growing economy. Singapore and Malaysia are also surging forward economically, in devotion to the city-state-cum-trading-state model and through varying blends of democracy and authoritarianism. The composite picture is of a cluster of states, which, with problems of domestic legitimacy and state-building behind them, are ready to advance their perceived territorial rights beyond their own shores. This outward collective push is located in the demographic cockpit of the globe, for it is in Southeast Asia, with its 615 million people, where China's 1.3 billion people converge with the Indian subcontinent's 1.5 billion people. And the geographical meeting place of these states, and their militaries, is maritime: the South China Sea.
The South China Sea joins the Southeast Asian states with the Western Pacific, functioning as the throat of global sea routes. Here is the center of maritime Eurasia, punctuated by the straits of Malacca, Sunda, Lombok, and Makassar. More than half the world's annual merchant fleet tonnage passes through these choke points, and a third of all maritime traffic. The oil transported through the Strait of Malacca from the Indian Ocean, en route to East Asia through the South China Sea, is more than six times the amount that passes through the Suez Canal and 17 times the amount that transits the Panama Canal. Roughly two-thirds of South Korea's energy supplies, nearly 60 percent of Japan's and Taiwan's energy supplies, and about 80 percent of China's crude-oil imports come through the South China Sea. What's more, the South China Sea has proven oil reserves of 7 billion barrels and an estimated 900 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, a potentially huge bounty.
It is not only location and energy reserves that promise to give the South China Sea critical geostrategic importance, but also the coldblooded territorial disputes that have long surrounded these waters. Several disputes concern the Spratly Islands, a mini-archipelago in the South China Sea's southeastern part. Vietnam, Taiwan, and China each claim all or most of the South China Sea, as well as all of the Spratly and Paracel island groups. In particular, Beijing asserts a historical line: It lays claim to the heart of the South China Sea in a grand loop (widely known as the "cow's tongue") from China's Hainan Island at the South China Sea's northern end all the way south 1,200 miles to near Singapore and Malaysia.
The result is that all nine states that touch the South China Sea are more or less arrayed against China and therefore dependent on the United States for diplomatic and military support. These conflicting claims are likely to become even more acute as Asia's spiraling energy demands -- energy consumption is expected to double by 2030, with China accounting for half that growth -- make the South China Sea the ever more central guarantor of the region's economic strength. Already, the South China Sea has increasingly become an armed camp, as the claimants build up and modernize their navies, even as the scramble for islands and reefs in recent decades is mostly over. China has so far confiscated 12 geographical features, Taiwan one, Vietnam 25, the Philippines eight, and Malaysia five.
China's very geography orients it in the direction of the South China Sea. China looks south toward a basin of water formed, in clockwise direction, by Taiwan, the Philippines, the island of Borneo split between Malaysia and Indonesia (as well as tiny Brunei), the Malay Peninsula divided between Malaysia and Thailand, and the long snaking coastline of Vietnam: weak states all, compared with China. Like the Caribbean Sea, punctuated as it is by small island states and enveloped by a continental-sized United States, the South China Sea is an obvious arena for the projection of Chinese power.
Indeed, China's position here is in many ways akin to America's position vis-à-vis the similar-sized Caribbean in the 19th and early 20th centuries. The United States recognized the presence and claims of European powers in the Caribbean, but sought to dominate the region nevertheless. It was the 1898 Spanish-American War and the digging of the Panama Canal from 1904 to 1914 that signified the United States' arrival as a world power. Domination of the greater Caribbean Basin, moreover, gave the United States effective control of the Western Hemisphere, which allowed it to affect the balance of power in the Eastern Hemisphere. And today China finds itself in a similar situation in the South China Sea, an antechamber of the Indian Ocean, where China also desires a naval presence to protect its Middle Eastern energy supplies.
Yet something deeper and more emotional than geography propels China forward into the South China Sea and out into the Pacific: that is, China's own partial breakup by the Western powers in the relatively recent past, after having been for millennia a great power and world civilization.
In the 19th century, as the Qing dynasty became the sick man of East Asia, China lost much of its territory to Britain, France, Japan, and Russia. In the 20th century came the bloody Japanese takeovers of the Shandong Peninsula and Manchuria. This all came atop the humiliations forced on China by the extraterritoriality agreements of the 19th and early 20th centuries, whereby Western countries wrested control of parts of Chinese cities -- the so-called "treaty ports." By 1938, as Yale University historian Jonathan D. Spence tells us in The Search for Modern China, because of these depredations as well as the Chinese Civil War, there was even a latent fear that "China was about to be dismembered, that it would cease to exist as a nation, and that the four thousand years of its recorded history would come to a jolting end." China's urge for expansion is a declaration that it never again intends to let foreigners take advantage of it.
JUST AS GERMAN SOIL constituted the military front line of the Cold War, the waters of the South China Sea may constitute the military front line of the coming decades. As China's navy becomes stronger and as China's claim on the South China Sea contradicts those of other littoral states, these other states will be forced to further develop their naval capacities. They will also balance against China by relying increasingly on the U.S. Navy, whose strength has probably peaked in relative terms, even as it must divert considerable resources to the Middle East. Worldwide multipolarity is already a feature of diplomacy and economics, but the South China Sea could show us what multipolarity in a military sense actually looks like.
There is nothing romantic about this new front, void as it is of moral struggles. In naval conflicts, unless there is shelling onshore, there are no victims per se; nor is there a philosophical enemy to confront. Nothing on the scale of ethnic cleansing is likely to occur in this new central theater of conflict. China, its suffering dissidents notwithstanding, simply does not measure up as an object of moral fury. The Chinese regime demonstrates only a low-calorie version of authoritarianism, with a capitalist economy and little governing ideology to speak of. Moreover, China is likely to become more open rather than closed as a society in future years. Instead of fascism or militarism, China, along with other states in East Asia, is increasingly defined by the persistence of old-fashioned nationalism: an idea, certainly, but not one that since the mid-19th century has been attractive to intellectuals. And even if China does become more democratic, its nationalism is likely only to increase, as even a casual survey of the views of its relatively freewheeling netizens makes clear.
We often think of nationalism as a reactionary sentiment, a relic of the 19th century. Yet it is traditional nationalism that mainly drives politics in Asia, and will continue to do so. That nationalism is leading unapologetically to the growth of militaries in the region -- navies and air forces especially -- to defend sovereignty and make claims for disputed natural resources. There is no philosophical allure here. It is all about the cold logic of the balance of power. To the degree that unsentimental realism, which is allied with nationalism, has a geographical home, it is the South China Sea.
Whatever moral drama does occur in East Asia will thus take the form of austere power politics of the sort that leaves many intellectuals and journalists numb. As Thucydides put it so memorably in his telling of the ancient Athenians' subjugation of the island of Melos, "The strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must." In the 21st-century retelling, with China in Athens's role as the preeminent regional sea power, the weak will still submit -- but that's it. This will be China's undeclared strategy, and the smaller countries of Southeast Asia may well bandwagon with the United States to avoid the Melians' fate. But slaughter there will be not.
The South China Sea presages a different form of conflict than the ones to which we have become accustomed. Since the beginning of the 20th century, we have been traumatized by massive, conventional land engagements on the one hand, and dirty, irregular small wars on the other. Because both kinds of war produced massive civilian casualties, war has been a subject for humanists as well as generals. But in the future we just might see a purer form of conflict, limited to the naval realm. This is a positive scenario. Conflict cannot be eliminated from the human condition altogether. A theme in Machiavelli's Discourses on Livy is that conflict, properly controlled, is more likely than rigid stability to lead to human progress. A sea crowded with warships does not contradict an era of great promise for Asia. Insecurity often breeds dynamism.
But can conflict in the South China Sea be properly controlled? My argument thus far presupposes that major warfare will not break out in the area and that instead countries will be content to jockey for position with their warships on the high seas, while making competing claims for natural resources and perhaps even agreeing to a fair distribution of them. But what if China were, against all evidential trends, to invade Taiwan? What if China and Vietnam, whose intense rivalry reaches far back into history, go to war as they did in 1979, with more lethal weaponry this time? For it isn't just China that is dramatically building its military; Southeast Asian countries are as well. Their defense budgets have increased by about a third in the past decade, even as European defense budgets have declined. Arms imports to Indonesia, Singapore, and Malaysia have gone up 84 percent, 146 percent, and 722 percent, respectively, since 2000. The spending is on naval and air platforms: surface warships, submarines with advanced missile systems, and long-range fighter jets. Vietnam recently spent $2 billion on six state-of-the-art Kilo-class Russian submarines and $1 billion on Russian fighter jets. Malaysia just opened a submarine base on Borneo. While the United States has been distracted by land wars in the greater Middle East, military power has been quietly shifting from Europe to Asia.
The United States presently guarantees the uneasy status quo in the South China Sea, limiting China's aggression mainly to its maps and serving as a check on China's diplomats and navy (though this is not to say that America is pure in its actions and China automatically the villain). What the United States provides to the countries of the South China Sea region is less the fact of its democratic virtue than the fact of its raw muscle. It is the very balance of power between the United States and China that ultimately keeps Vietnam, Taiwan, the Philippines, Indonesia, Singapore, and Malaysia free, able to play one great power off against the other. And within that space of freedom, regionalism can emerge as a power in its own right, in the form of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). Yet, such freedom cannot be taken for granted. For the tense, ongoing standoff between the United States and China -- which extends to a complex array of topics from trade to currency reform to cybersecurity to intelligence surveillance -- threatens eventually to shift in China's favor in East Asia, largely due to China's geographical centrality to the region.
THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE SUMMATION of the new Asian geopolitical landscape has come not from Washington or Beijing, but from Canberra. In a 74-page article published last year, "Power Shift: Australia's Future Between Washington and Beijing," Hugh White, professor of strategic studies at the Australian National University, describes his country as the quintessential "status quo" power -- one that desperately wants the situation in Asia to remain exactly as it is, with China continuing to grow so that Australia can trade more and more with it, while America remains "the strongest power in Asia," so as to be Australia's "ultimate protector." But as White writes, the problem is that both of these things cannot go on. Asia cannot continue to change economically without changing politically and strategically; a Chinese economic behemoth naturally will not be content with American military primacy in Asia.
What does China want? White posits that the Chinese may desire in Asia the kind of new-style empire that the United States engineered in the Western Hemisphere once Washington had secured dominance over the Caribbean Basin (as Beijing hopes it will over the South China Sea). This new-style empire, in White's words, meant America's neighbors were "more or less free to run their own countries," even as Washington insisted that its views be given "full consideration" and take precedence over those of outside powers. The problem with this model is Japan, which would probably not accept Chinese hegemony, however soft. That leaves the Concert of Europe model, in which China, India, Japan, the United States, and perhaps one or two others would sit down at the table of Asian power as equals. But would the United States accept such a modest role, since it has associated Asian prosperity and stability with its own primacy? White suggests that in the face of rising Chinese power, American dominance might henceforth mean instability for Asia.
American dominance is predicated on the notion that because China is authoritarian at home, it will act "unacceptably abroad." But that may not be so, White argues. China's conception of itself is that of a benign, non-hegemonic power, one that does not interfere in the domestic philosophies of other states in the way the United States -- with its busybody morality -- does. Because China sees itself as the Middle Kingdom, its basis of dominance is its own inherent centrality to world history, rather than any system it seeks to export.
In other words, the United States, not China, might be the problem in the future. We may actually care too much about the internal nature of the Chinese regime and seek to limit China's power abroad because we do not like its domestic policies. Instead, America's aim in Asia should be balance, not dominance. It is precisely because hard power is still the key to international relations that we must make room for a rising China. The United States need not increase its naval power in the Western Pacific, but it cannot afford to substantially decrease it.
The loss of a U.S. aircraft carrier strike group in the Western Pacific due to budget cuts or a redeployment to the Middle East could cause intense discussions in the region about American decline and the consequent need to make amends and side deals with Beijing. The optimal situation is a U.S. air and naval presence at more or less the current level, even as the United States does all in its power to forge cordial and predictable ties with China. That way America can adjust over time to a Chinese blue-water navy. In international affairs, behind all questions of morality lie questions of power. Humanitarian intervention in the Balkans was possible only because the Serbian regime was weak, unlike the Russian regime, which was committing atrocities of a similar scale in Chechnya while the West did nothing. In the Western Pacific in the coming decades, morality may mean giving up some of our most cherished ideals for the sake of stability. How else are we to make room for a quasi-authoritarian China as its military expands? The balance of power itself, even more than the democratic values of the West, is often the best safeguard of freedom. That, too, will be a lesson of the South China Sea in the 21st century -- another one that idealists do not want to hear.

**South China Sea war escalates, causes extinction. Only relations solves.**
**Wittner 11-30-11**
Lawrence, Professor of History emeritus at SUNY/Albany, Is a Nuclear War With China Possible?, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lawrence-wittner/nuclear-war-china_b_1116556.html
While nuclear weapons exist, there remains a danger that they will be used. After all, for centuries international conflicts have led to wars, with nations employing their deadliest weapons. The current deterioration of U.S. relations with China might end up providing us with yet another example of this phenomenon.
The gathering tension between the United States and China is clear enough. Disturbed by China's growing economic and military strength, the U.S. government recently challenged China's claims in the South China Sea, increased the U.S. military presence in Australia, and deepened U.S. military ties with other nations in the Pacific region. According to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the United States was "asserting our own position as a Pacific power."
But need this lead to nuclear war?
Not necessarily. And yet, there are signs that it could. After all, both the United States and China possess large numbers of nuclear weapons. The U.S. government threatened to attack China with nuclear weapons during the Korean War and, later, during their conflict over the future of China's offshore islands, Quemoy and Matsu. In the midst of the latter confrontation, President Dwight Eisenhower declared publicly, and chillingly, that U.S. nuclear weapons would "be used just exactly as you would use a bullet or anything else."
Of course, China didn't have nuclear weapons then. Now that it does, perhaps the behavior of national leaders will be more temperate. But the loose nuclear threats of U.S. and Soviet government officials during the Cold War, when both nations had vast nuclear arsenals, should convince us that, even as the military ante is raised, nuclear saber-rattling persists.
Some pundits argue that nuclear weapons prevent wars between nuclear-armed nations; and, admittedly, there haven't been very many -- at least not yet. But the Kargil War of 1999, between nuclear-armed India and nuclear-armed Pakistan, should convince us that such wars can occur. Indeed, in that case, the conflict almost slipped into a nuclear war. Pakistan's foreign secretary threatened that, if the war escalated, his country felt free to use "any weapon" in its arsenal. During the conflict, Pakistan did move nuclear weapons toward its border, while India, it is claimed, readied its own nuclear missiles for an attack on Pakistan.
At the least, though, don't nuclear weapons deter a nuclear attack? Do they? Obviously, NATO leaders didn't feel deterred, for, throughout the Cold War, NATO's strategy was to respond to a Soviet conventional military attack on Western Europe by launching a Western nuclear attack on the nuclear-armed Soviet Union. Furthermore, if U.S. government officials really believed that nuclear deterrence worked, they would not have resorted to championing "Star Wars" and its modern variant, national missile defense. Why are these vastly expensive -- and probably unworkable -- military defense systems needed if other nuclear powers are deterred from attacking by U.S. nuclear might?
Of course, the bottom line for those Americans convinced that nuclear weapons safeguard them from a Chinese nuclear attack might be that the U.S. nuclear arsenal is far greater than its Chinese counterpart. Today, it is estimated that the U.S. government possesses over 5,000 nuclear warheads, while the Chinese government has a total inventory of roughly 300. Moreover, only about 40 of these Chinese nuclear weapons can reach the United States. Surely the United States would "win" any nuclear war with China.
But what would that "victory" entail? An attack with these Chinese nuclear weapons would immediately slaughter at least 10 million Americans in a great storm of blast and fire, while leaving many more dying horribly of sickness and radiation poisoning. The Chinese death toll in a nuclear war would be far higher. Both nations would be reduced to smoldering, radioactive wastelands. Also, radioactive debris sent aloft by the nuclear explosions would blot out the sun and bring on a "nuclear winter" around the globe -- destroying agriculture, creating worldwide famine, and generating chaos and destruction.
Moreover, in another decade the extent of this catastrophe would be far worse. The Chinese government is currently expanding its nuclear arsenal, and by the year 2020 it is expected to more than double its number of nuclear weapons that can hit the United States. The U.S. government, in turn, has plans to spend hundreds of billions of dollars "modernizing" its nuclear weapons and nuclear production facilities over the next decade.
To avert the enormous disaster of a U.S.-China nuclear war, there are two obvious actions that can be taken. The first is to get rid of nuclear weapons, as the nuclear powers have agreed to do but thus far have resisted doing. The second, conducted while the nuclear disarmament process is occurring, is to improve U.S.-China relations. If the American and Chinese people are interested in ensuring their survival and that of the world, they should be working to encourage these policies.
Plan
The United States federal government should substantially increase its space based Maritime Domain Awareness capabilities beyond the earth’s mesosphere.


__**Contention 3 is Solvency**__
**Space based satellites monitoring AIS create an internationally collaborative framework to allow for global maritime domain awareness.**
**Earles, 10.**
Marion “Rick”, Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, CANEUS USA, International Collaborative Aerospace Development Micro-Nano-Technologies: From Concepts to Systems, CANEUS International is a unique non-profit organization of professionals involving public/private partnership, serving primarily the needs of aeronautics, space and defense communities by fostering the coordinated, international development of MNT (Micro-Nano- Technologies) for aerospace and defense applications. CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 11/8/11, Scott
The potential for international collaboration in space to materially improve maritime security was recently articulated by Guy Thomas, Science and Technology Advisor for the US Coast Guard: “The maritime entities of the world, military, civil, and private alike looked at their situation in the new reality (after 9/11/2001) and quickly understood their vulnerabilities and the potential consequences. Since that terrible day a number of national and international organizations have addressed how to protect their maritime assets, both individually, and in growing numbers, collectively. Most saw increased maritime domain awareness (MDA) as of first importance to the smooth functioning of commerce on the world’s oceans, the crucial supporting frame of the world’s economy, and crucial to their national interests. The potential unique contributions of current and planned space systems, owned by a wide range of nations and available to many others, to international global maritime awareness is a subject of growing interest to many.” 1Knowing where ships are located is a necessary element of Maritime Domain Awareness, though not sufficient in itself to achieve an “effective understanding” 2 of maritime activity and its impact on safety, security, the environment and the economy. Current practice relies on a diverse set of sensors to garner the positions of ships; a fundamental contribution to the art and practice of ship tracking can be credited to the International Maritime Organization, which in 2004 mandated the use of an Automatic Ship Identification System (AIS) for many commercially important ships. AIS is a “self-reporting” system that broadcasts each participating ship’s identity and position (among many data fields) over VHF channels; the original intent was to provide collision-avoidance information to nearby ships and shore stations. 3 Shortly after the IMO carriage requirements became effective, the US Navy in the Mediterranean began to collaborate with European and African governments to establish a network of shore stations, all of which contributed the AIS signals they received locally to a consolidated data stream, which was then shared among participating nations. This Maritime Safety and Security Information System (MSSIS) has since grown into a network of over 100 AIS base stations in over 60 participating nations around the world, providing current positions for over 15,000 ships. The major strengths of this innovative collaboration are the trust and interdependence it generates, and of course, an unprecedented picture of maritime activity. The major shortcomings are the limited set of ships broadcasting AIS, and the limited reception range for VHF signals; no data is received from non-cooperative vessels, or from the open oceans or areas near nonparticipating nations. Herein lies the key point made by Guy Thomas: the entire planet is “visible” from space, and many of the sensors (including AIS receivers) needed for a much more complete picture of maritime activity are already on orbit or planned. That space will be the key enabler for truly global situational awareness is suggested by the exceptional composite image of the earth at night (Figure 1). Lights which are clearly visible from space define the “wired” world, served by grid electricity and more recently, internet connectivity. This leaves the oceans, the polar regions, deserts and jungles “unwired” and often undergoverned. Moving data out of these areas, which comprise roughly 84% of the Earth’s surface, is important: a key strategic principle in warfare is to deny the enemy sanctuary, and for illicit activities ranging from illegal trafficking to training terrorists, sanctuary is found in the unwired world. Quite separate from the challenge of moving data out of unwired areas is the related question of generating that data in remote regions; this will be addressed with a review of the State of the Art in unattended sensors in the context of the business case for small satellite systems. This article will focus on the “bent pipe” link that can connect the “unwired” and “wired” regions of the world via satellite, using AIS data as a convenient example of interesting data that is routinely generated by ships that are only in the “wired” world when they are pier-side or close to a shore-based AIS receiver. This will allow us to develop a concept for collaboration in space with a concrete use-case, that being to extend the current AIS picture from regional near-shore areas to the entire world. Additional utility can be had if the data collection and transport backbone in space, which handles AIS data, would also handle data signals from maritime and terrestrial sensors that transmit short bursts of data . Finally, we advance the notion that approaching the problem as a global governance issue (rather than any one country’s intelligence mission) points us to international collaboration, open to all countries, large and small. Already, a number of national space agencies, regional consortia and commercial interests are active in deploying space-based AIS and data extraction capabilities but it is not clear that these disparate systems are sufficiently interoperable, affordable, and transparent enough to support a global cooperative framework of nations, including those nations with austere finances and inadequate technical infrastructure. The measures of these important system characteristics will be developed in this and the subsequent articles in this series.


**Satellites AIS systems solve technical problems with MSSIS now – international collaborative effort for MDA that exists now.**
**Earles, 10.**
Marion “Rick”, Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, CANEUS USA, International Collaborative Aerospace Development Micro-Nano-Technologies: From Concepts to Systems, CANEUS International is a unique non-profit organization of professionals involving public/private partnership, serving primarily the needs of aeronautics, space and defense communities by fostering the coordinated, international development of MNT (Micro-Nano- Technologies) for aerospace and defense applications. CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 11/8/11, Scott
The Maritime Safety and Security Information System (MSSIS) is a freely-shared, unclassified, near real-time data collection and distribution network. Its member countries share AIS data, with no filtering, analysis, or other “value added” operations; this preserves the all-important “freely-shared” character of the network, making it appropriate for all countries, regardless of their technological sophistication or financial condition. MSSIS is intended to promote multilateral collaboration and data-sharing among international participants, with a primary goal of increasing maritime security and safety. Data sources may range from a single sensor to an entire national vessel tracking network. Because the data distributed by MSSIS maintains its original, internationally recognized format and is delivered to users in near real time, member organizations are able to utilize the feed to meet their specific mission requirements. Members joining the MSSIS network can immediately begin to leverage its capabilities. Transview (TV32), the client software for MSSIS which is distributed free of charge, serves as a common system interface and vessel tracking display for its users. It offers a variety of standalone display features and also functions as a gateway for users to access and contribute to the aggregated global data stream. With frequent enhancements to the system’s capabilities and a continuously growing MSSIS community, government organizations can capitalize on the services of MSSIS to improve and maintain Maritime Domain Awareness. MSSIS was developed by the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center at the US Department of Transportation’s Research and Innovative Technology Administration and is available to nations worldwide to improve and maintain Maritime Domain Awareness. The system is currently used by over 60 nations worldwide. A major enhancement that is currently in testing for this system is the addition of AIS data collected by satellites. Technical issues being addressed include the latency of data delivered only periodically (as satellites pass over downlink stations) and the problem of data collisions when more than one vessel transmits in a given time slot. Preliminary data collections show tremendous potential, however, as seen in Figure 2.

**MDA is faltering now. Purchasing systems is key to effectiveness.**
**Ratcliff 2007**
Ronald E., National Security Decision Making professor at the Naval War College, Naval War College Review Autumn 2007, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0JIW/is_4_60/ai_n21118683/pg_2/?tag=content;col1
Important as these points are, however, perhaps better explicating the way ahead and accenting the tangible steps the U.S. Navy has already taken to make the concept a reality would make a stronger argument for it. Also, and though the Navy has made clear that it has no desire to dictate the terms of participation, it must provide leadership in the form of action to draw in other navies. Specifically, the Navy would gain greater purchase among the world's maritime entities by acquiring, employing, and sharing the necessary information and communications technologies than by merely highlighting the possibilities they offer. Operations at sea cannot take place without the means to coordinate the actions of participating units, and they cannot succeed without current and actionable intelligence. Until the Navy can explain or demonstrate how both functions will be accomplished in the TSN/GMP, it should expect only tepid responses from potential participants.
Today, on the eve of the Eighteenth International Seapower Symposium, two years after the thousand-ship navy concept was introduced, it is becoming increasingly apparent that the concept has yet to gain widespread support among the world's maritime enterprises. Despite the success of combined naval operations in highly publicized operations that averted or relieved major human disasters around the world, many countries remain cautious about "joining" or being seen as advocates of the Global Maritime Partnership. However logical and benign the thousand-ship navy seems to the United States, other countries remain openly wary of its intended purposes and possible unintended consequences. They have legitimate concerns, and if the U.S. Navy is to constitute a thousand-ship navy it must address them forthrightly. That challenge is not inconsequential. Hyperbole and rhetorical calls to act for the greater good of a globalizing world will not be sufficient. Indeed, if the logic of the TSN/GMP has clear appeal to many nations, the concept also has weaknesses that if not resolved will likely prove fatal.

**MDA leads to tech transfers, solves allied capability.**
**Bradford 11-9-11**
JOHN F. BRADFORD, a U.S. Navy officer, has served in several ships forward-deployed to the Western Pacific and ashore in a number of defence staff positions dealing with Asia-Pacific strategic affairs and defence policy Contemporary Southeast Asia Vol. 33, No. 2 (2011), pp. 183–208 . http://maritimesecurity.asia/free-2/maritime-security-asia/the-maritime-strategy-of-the-united-states-implications-for-indo-pacific-sea-lanes/
Technology transfers are another important element of US capacity building programmes. Technology transfers are particularly important to those maritime partners with less capacity and lacking the budgetary support to quickly grow on their own. For example, the United States has provided equipment to bolster the capacity of the Maldives to conduct maritime counter-terror operations such as rigid-hulled inflatable boats (RHIB), dive gear and small caliber weapons free of charge. In Financial Year (FY) 2010 US funding supported Indonesian maritime counter-terrorism activities by providing twelve RHIBs and related equipment and training, as well as equipment and training to improve day and night counter- terrorism air missions.
One especially important focus area for these technology transfers has been in the field of Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA). Regularly referred to by Admiral Gary Roughead, the Chief of Naval Operations, as the “glue” that binds CS21 activities together, MDA is the effective understanding of anything associated with the maritime domain that could impact the security, safety, economy or environment of a nation.61 Successful MDA requires surveillance data to be gathered, collated and understood, a demanding and challenging task for resource-constrained states with vast sea territories. In the Indo-Pacific, valuable tools used by the US government to execute these cooperative technology transfers have been so-called “1206-Funds”. Named for the federal code that authorizes their disbursement, 1206-funds can be allocated by the Regional Combatant Commanders (such as the Commander of Pacific Command) to fund capacity-building projects that support counter-terrorism missions.62 In the Indo-Pacific, 1206-funds have been employed for a variety of projects including the establishment or upgrading of radar stations along key sea lanes in Sri Lanka, Indonesia, the Philippines and Malaysia.63 Fully owned and operated by the recipient nation, these stations have been linked to domestic MDA systems and provide significant service to partner security forces. US-funded projects like these can help partners bridge gaps in maritime surveillance and interdiction capabilities.

**The barrier to the thousand ship navy now is sovereignty concerns. US commitment to non-intrusive MDA is key to solve.**
**Low 2008**
Desmond, Major in the Singapore Navy and Staff Officer in the Naval Plans Dept., Global Maritime Partnership and the Prospects for Malacca Straits Security, Pointer v34 no2, http://www.mindef.gov.sg/content/imindef/publications/pointer/journals/2008/v34n2/feature4.html
While the climate for regional cooperation appears favourable, gaining acceptance of the GMP concept among prospective regional partners is an uphill task. Critics cite that one of the biggest obstacles is the perception that this US-led initiative serves more to secure its homeland than improving global maritime security. They point to the lack of support for PSI46 and RMSI47 as one of the imperatives for the GMP, and that the GMP amounts to "PSI by other means". Proponents of the GMP carefully point out that unlike PSI and RMSI, this concept is benign in nature and that respect for national sovereignty is high. In building the needed relationships, a key challenge will be designing a maritime network that will match activities with regional and local interests, as well as the capabilities of various nations. Given the strong objections by coastal states towards direct external involvement in maritime security affairs, the application of soft power by extending financial aid, access to technology and training is an attractive alternative with better mileage in generating goodwill while allaying sovereignty concerns. Such measures would serve to improve the coastal states' capabilities for law enforcement at sea and in protecting the safety of navigation and environment of the Malacca Straits. Some ongoing developments bear this out. Following the lifting of an arms embargo in 2004 and resumption of full military ties, the US is seeking to expand military cooperation with Indonesia in counter-terrorism, law enforcement, information exchange and personnel exchange.48 Opportunities also lie in supporting a burden-sharing arrangement for the upkeep of the Malacca Straits. The majority of vessels using the straits do not call at any of the straits states' ports and thus the coastal states do not receive any direct benefit from their passage. Yet Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore bear the burden in providing for the safety of navigation, as well as the consequences arising from accidents. So far, Japan has been the main donor, having voluntarily contributed more than US$150 million since the 1960s. The Nippon Foundation has estimated that approximately US$300 million would be needed to upkeep navigational equipment over the next decade in the already congested straits.49 Concrete commitments by the US would help advance the initiative by encouraging other major user states such as China, India and South Korea to participate. The US can also continue to engage the region without increasing its footprint by supporting regional multi-track diplomatic mechanisms such as the ARF (Track one) and the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific (CSCAP)50 (Track two), as well as promoting leadership among regional users with direct stakes in the security of the sea lanes, namely China, India and Japan, and by supporting local maritime security initiatives. These confidence and security building efforts will pave the way for the GMP concept to take root and assuage regional concerns over US hegemony. With more than 90% of the world's trade shipped by sea on some 96,000 ships (of 100 gross tons or more)51, there is enormous potential for merchant marines to complement and extend the intelligence and information gathering capabilities of nations and navies. Furthermore, shipping and port industry participation is vital for the successful implementation of other overlapping initiatives like the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS Code)52 and the Container Security Initiative (CSI).53 In order to convince the shipping industry to voluntarily share information on vessel locations (usually considered proprietary), cargo and crew manifests, and suspicious activity, the GMP concept will need to address information management and security issues, and explore providing incentives to the industry with breaks on Automatic Identification System (AIS) costs, government-industry cost sharing associated with new security measures, and expedition in cargo inspection processes for compliant vessels. A further step towards improving regulation of the global commons could be re-crafting international law by amending international conventions, such as UNCLOS, to eradicate "corporate veils" arising from the use of flags-of-convenience and overcome legal issues associated with the boarding and seizure of suspicious merchant vessels on the high seas. A key enabler of the GMP concept is maritime domain awareness (MDA), defined as "the knowledge of anything at sea that affects a nation's security, safety, economics or its environment".54 It envisions a system where information from extensive sources is collected, fused into a common operating picture (COP) and shared with users with appropriate access, so as to generate actionable intelligence for response(s) by appropriate forces or agencies. Achieving MDA as envisioned will require a tailored approach to address regional sensitivities and complement existing capabilities and systems. In the Malacca Straits, some level of information sharing has existed since 1998 through the Mandatory Ship Reporting System (STRAITREP).55 Implemented by Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore, its main purpose is for navigation safety and marine environmental protection. More recently, Singapore and Indonesia established a joint sea surveillance system in 2005 called Project SURPIC to share a common real-time picture of the Singapore Strait.56 Given the political sensitivities highlighted earlier, a supportive yet non-intrusive approach is needed to improve the littoral states' technical and operational surveillance capabilities and information sharing capabilities while recognising their rights over the straits. Interoperability is a main factor in successful information sharing, requiring common procedures, communication systems and protocols. The US CENTRIX (Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange) system is a possible solution already in operation among multinational naval forces. Cost-sharing measures or technical assistance grants would make such systems more affordable for resource-strapped states. In mid 2006, the US pledged to help Indonesia develop a coastal radar system to monitor the Malacca Straits, similar to a system in operation along the Malaysian coast.57 A more important factor is transparency and ensuring that all authorised users have equal access to information. Undoubtedly, this would limit information sharing to unclassified data in the beginning. However, it could progress to include intelligence information in the same way confidential credit card information is shared worldwide, but closely protected, by the banking industry. Conclusion The strategic trends in the geo-political environment in Southeast Asia, with particular regard to the Malacca Straits, indicate a general readiness for increased cooperation in maritime security which points towards fairly good prospects for an initiative like the GMP. However, actualising the concept as envisioned by its designers will require substantial effort to work out the practical operative mechanics. For the US, gaining the acceptance and commitment of littoral states without provoking regional sensitivities lies in a non-intrusive yet supporting approach towards locally bred and led initiatives through the application of its soft power. Beyond this, realising the Thousand Ship Navy is a matter of time.


===1AC - Glenbrooks=== 

Contention 1 – The Inconvenient Truth
White supremacy is the un-named political system that governs status-quo politics. We pass policies to satisfy a “social contract” that is inherently racist. The omission of any mention of this system is not accidental but a coordinated condition of the system.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">MILLS</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">1997</span>
Charles-; The Racial Contract; p. 1-3
White Supremacy is the unnamed political AND <span class="underline">political lingua franca of our times.</span>
It is this invisibility which makes modern racism so dangerous. Racism can be expressed with a violent Fist or a Velvet glove. Contemporary Racism has slipped on the velvet glove, invoking a devastating power of illusion by focusing merely on individual bigotry leaving untouched society’s racist systems and institutions.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">BARDNT</span>Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization <span style="font-size: 16px;">1991</span>
Joseph-ordained minister; //“Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America//; p.31-33
Racism can be expressed with an AND to see this power at work.

__The Scenario for Institutional Racism is Climate Denial__

The science behind warming is rock solid – most scientific reports have confirmed the validity of the greenhouse gas effects, however, the modern right wing has taken over “climate denial” as their new pet project
<span style="font-size: 16px;">CFR 9/25/11</span> Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special correspondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-ap__the_american__allergy__to_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader__
__NEW YORK (AP) — AND protect the habitat that sustains us."__

__Climate denialism is 21st century invisible racism at its finest – the Politics of denial act to preserve the interests of the rich white male, ignoring the impact borne by minorities.__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mooney ’11</span>, Chris, science and political journalist specializing in science in politics, the psychology of denialism, Knight Science Journalism Fellow, MIT; Visiting Associate, Center for Collaborative History, Princeton U; 8/2/11 (“What’s Up With Conservative White Men and Climate Change Denial?,” http://www.desmogblog.com/what-s-conservative-white-men-and-climate-change-denial)__
__They’re the conservative white men (AND <span class="underline">blogs serve to fan the flames</span>.__

__Climate denial has deep effects in US space policy, rather than funding__ crucial __earth observation satellite, the US refuses to allow for a truly genuine climate science in order to maintain status quo vested economic interests__
__Patrick <span style="font-size: 16px;">Gleick 8/31</span>/2011 Why Anti-Science Ideology is Bad for America <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/petergleick/2011/08/31/why-anti-science-ideology-is-bad-for-america/]]</span> [CEO Pacific Institute, MacArthur Fellow, National Academy of Sciences]__
__<span class="underline">Anti-science ideology isn’t completely AND </span>by trying to discredit the science.__

__Approaching WARMING without disrupting the RACIAL FRAMEWORK that exists MISSES the BOAT, FEAR of ERODING racial hierarchies explain INEFFECTUAL “market-based approaches” to global warming.__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">MANDELL Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project 2k8</span> [Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow; Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289]__
__[*297] Fear of AND traditionalist, capitalist ruling class." [[@http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.binghamton.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1300963062371&returnToKey=20_T11559734102&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.307872.8645909542#n52|n52]]__

__The effects of global warming strike at the heart of minority rights – systematic discrimination mean marginalized communities are less likely to survive global warming threating their unique culture – the US has an__ obligation __to these populations__
__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">M</span>inority <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">R</span>ights <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">G</span>roups <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">I</span>nternational April <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2008</span> [[http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Issues/ClimateChange/Submissions/Minority_Rights_Group_International.pdf]]__
__[Author: Rachel Baird (MRG) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) working to secure the rights of ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities worldwide, and to promote cooperation and understanding between communities.]__
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Climate change is just beginning to AND for this than any other nation.</span>
__Racist dichotomies grant states the power to exterminate – this is the root of all war__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mendieta ‘02</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Eduardo Mendieta, , “To Make Live and to Let Die – Foucault and Racism. 2002</span>__
__This is where racism intervenes, AND <span class="underline">and foes are biological in nature</span>.__

__These systematic harms of structural violence must come__ before __linear impact calculations – the structural violence of the poorest of the poor have caused thermonuclear wars every year of every decade__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Abu-Jamal 98</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html)</span>__
__We live, equally immersed, AND [Gilligan, p. 196]__

__Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">MEMMI</span> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-size: 16px;">2000</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>__
__The struggle against racism will be AND , but the stakes are irresistible.__

__As a stance against institutional racism pervasive in US climate denial policy Sumon and I advocate the following:__
__Plan – The United States federal government should substantially increase its space based earth observation capabilities.__

__Contention 2 – The Discussion of Race__
__White supremacy as the unnamed political system operates on more than a structural level – in debates through__ traditional __policy discussions we have abdicated any discussion on the illusive invisibility of white supremacy – we have an__ obligation __to situate these discussions at the forefront__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mills</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 16px;">1997</span>__
__Charles-; The Racial Contract__

__Nationally, within these racial politiesAND <span class="underline">of transcontinental and intracontinental racial exploitation.</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Any abdication of any discussion of the modern racial contract is </span>__not neutral __– our traditional policy frameworks approach the world from a white epistemological basis of willful ignorance and forgetfulness – discussions of race are critical__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mills</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 16px;">1997</span>__
__Charles-; The Racial Contract__
__Finally, the Racial Contract requires AND establish and maintain the white polity<span class="underline"> .</span>__

__The performance of the 1AC is critical to bring the necessary discussion of race to discussion of global warming – the environmental movement has__ exemplified __modern color muteness and we must connect the dots between racial discrimination in warming if we are to survive__
__Tim <span style="font-size: 16px;">Wise</span> April 13th <span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span> Tim Wise and White Privilege <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://changefromwithin.org/2011/04/13/tim-wise-and-white-privilege/]]</span> [Wise served as an adjunct faculty member at the Smith College School for Social Work, in Northampton, Massachusetts, where he co-taught a Master’s level class on Racism in the U.S. In 2001, Wise trained journalists to eliminate racial bias in reporting, as a visiting faculty-in-residence at the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida. From 1999-2003, Wise was an advisor to the Fisk University Race Relations Institute, in Nashville, and in the early ’90s he was Youth Coordinator and Associate Director of the Louisiana Coalition Against Racism and Nazism: the largest of the many groups organized for the purpose of defeating neo-Nazi political candidate, David Duke. He graduated from Tulane University in 1990 and received antiracism training from the People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond, in New Orleans.]__
__But <span class="underline">as troubling as colorblindness can AND </span>the real lives being destroyed currently,__
__which are disproportionately of colorAND to weaken the fight for survival.__

__It’s not a question of solvency, but one of__ exposition __– we must__ constantly__ discursively challenge the dominant paradigms of climate denial – grassroots struggles are critical
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gore, ’11</span> [Yes, THE Al Gore, Al Gore August 29th 2011. “Al Gore Compares Climate Change Deniers to Racists” [This is a transcription of the video embedded in the page] <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.inquisitr.com/137269/al-gore-compares-climate-change-deniers-to-racists/]]</span>]
Gore: Yeah if Michael Jordan AND get that out there, absolutely.

===1AC - Wake Forest=== 

Plan: The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.
Contention One is the status quo

The sun is entering a period of increased activity in 2013
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Derbyshire 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]</span>
__The world is overdue a ferocious AND__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">U.S. space agency said</span>

Status quo satellites fail
Butt 10 [Yousaf, Staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University, 2/1 “ The EMP threat: fact, fiction, and response ” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Continued monitoring of the space environment AND of this directive cannot be overstressed. </span>

There is no funding for the updated version of this technology, the Deep Space Climate Observatory, or DSCOVR
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Turner 7/13</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[SpaceNews staff writer, 2011 “House Panel Denies Funding for Space Climate Probe, Satellite Constellation” http://www.space.com/12259-house-panel-space-climate-satellites-funding.html]</span>
__The U.S. House AND would not provide funding for either.__

Early warning of storms solves blackouts and satellite failure.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Phillips 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Tony, production editor of Science@NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]</span>
<span class="underline">Earth and space are about to AND We take this very seriously indeed." </span>


Contention Two is Solar Storms
Scenario One is Miscalc

Satellite malfunctions will trigger an accidental war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Coffelt 5</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– Colonel in the US Airforce, space operator (Christopher A., “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95 <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/]]</span>)</span>
__Those that operate satellite systems and AND own systems and access to space.__

30 Minute Timeframe to massive nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Morgan 9</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Dennis Ray Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693</span>
__As for the accidental factor of AND__ war would surely have taken place.

Accidental launch is the most likely scenario for nuclear use – tradition of nonuse tempers most other scenarios
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Paul, Professor of International Relations at McGill University, ‘5</span> (T.V, “The Risk of Nuclear War Does Not Belong to History” published in ‘The Waning of Major War: Theories and Debates’ by Raimo Vayryen, p 113-135)
Risk of nuclear war during the AND as well as by terrorist groups.

Scenario Two is the Economy

Satellites are key to the economy
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span>. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Commercially, </span>__the economy of the AND__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">-the-pump capability.”9 </span>

Economic collapse leads to great power wars
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mead 9</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Walter Russell. Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. 2/4/9. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]</span>. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">So far, such half-AND </span>__we may still have to fight.__

Scenario Three is Blackouts

Solar storms cause long term blackouts
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Butt 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Yousaf, Staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University, 2/1 “ The EMP threat: fact, fiction, and response ” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">For the reasons outlined above, AND </span>__multiple years are possible__ [25].

Blackouts cause nuclear plants to meltdown
<span style="font-size: 16px;">IB Times 11</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">International Business Times, written by staff reporter, 8/8/11 “Severe Solar Storms could Disrupt Earth this Decade: NOAA” http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/194166/20110808/solar-storms-severe-solar-storms-earth-paralyse-carrington-event.</span>htm
__This is a particular problem in AND__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">that of major earthquakes and tsunamis.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">That causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wasserman 2001</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Harvey – senior editor of the Free Press, October 2001, “America’s Terrorist Nuclear Threat to Itself,” http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2001/10/00_wasserman_nuclear-threat.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">No sane nation hands to a AND </span>__future generations__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">must be shut down.</span>

DSCOVR is scientifically vital to solar weather prediction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lautenbacher 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010</span>, Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html]
__The DSCOVR (Deep Space Climate AND let DSCOVR's launch funding be eliminated.__

Contention Three is Climate Conflict
Warming is inevitable – status quo CO2 emissions and oceanic feedbacks
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Solomon et al, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ‘09</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106, http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf)</span>
Over the 20th century, the AND <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">peak level of carbon dioxide reached</span>.

That causes global destabilizing crises that escalate – US military preventative action is key to solve
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tussing 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]</span>
The impetus behind these efforts on AND are taking shape in every theater.

Successful military responses fosters international modeling and cooperative efforts for broader climate action
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tussing 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">In emulation of the American effortAND </span>the camp of the civil authorities.

Lack of effective climate data means US power fails to respond to these – decapitates effective interventionism to check
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]</span>
<span class="underline">Climate change will likely exacerbate trends AND well </span>prepared to meet future challenges<span class="underline">. </span>

And, the only way climate knowledge is actionable is if we have effective data
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]</span>
Given the proliferation of new tools<span class="underline"> AND </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">national secu­rity professionals need to ask. </span>

International data fails, not actionable.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Parthermore and Rogers 2011</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Christine and Will, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security. Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security. “Blinded: The Decline of US Earth Monitoring Capabilities and its Consequences for National Security”, July 2011, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Our research suggests that </span>the UAND <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">effects of environmental and climate change. </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">DSCOVR solves-</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Key to broader Earth Observation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Donahue 2011</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Bill, Who Killed the Deep Space Climate Observatory?, PopSci 4-6-11, Portland based writer, http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Since 1999, </span><span class="underline">NASA and NOAA have been calling for an integrated Earth-observing system</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—a network of satellites that, among other things, would consistently measure changes in the Earth’s climate. </span><span class="underline">But that campaign is “languishing,”</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> said a 2010 Government Accountability Office report, and </span><span class="underline">there are “significant gaps in future satellite coverage</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Meanwhile, Earth-observing satellites AND </span>Earth-monitoring systems<span class="underline"> could </span>depend<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Key to model accuracy</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Williams 2008</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Obama’s first presidential pardon should be AND </span><span class="underline">a great boost</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the 1970s.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Key to Integration</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Valero 2007</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Francisco, DSCOVR, Earth Sciences from a New Perspective, Abstract from Seminar at the Atmospheric Physics Dept. at the University of Warsaw, [[http://www.igf.fuw.edu.pl/zfa/?option=com_seminars&Itemid=41&lang=en&archive=1&year=2007-2008&func=view&seminar=91]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The L-1 and LAND for the nation's investment in space. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A synergistic, integrated system composed of LEO, GEO, and SLPs platforms is likely the way of the future.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Solves data gaps</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wiscombe and Herman 2002 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Warren and Jay, PhD in applied math from CalTech senior scientist at Goddard Chief Scientist for Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, L-1 and L-2 Observatories for Earth Science in the Post-2010 Era</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://esto.nasa.gov/conferences/igarss-2002/02Papers/02060940.PDF]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The L1 and L2 Lagrange points AND </span>by other networks and spaceborne platforms”

Scenario One is Africa
Climate migration creates African instability – preventative deployment and international cooperation is key, lack of preventative planning acauses reactive deployment which triggers great power wars
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith 2007 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Paul J., associate professor of national security affairs at the United States Naval War College, Climate Change, Mass Migration and the Military Response, Orbis Fall 2007, https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/FSE/FuturesPap/ClimateCha0/file/_WFS/%20Orbis2--climate%20change%20and%20mass%20migration.pdf]</span>
Deployment of military forces will be AND <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">military forces in a reactive manner. </span>
Great power draw in escalates to global nuclear war
Deutsch ’02 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Jeffrey Deutsch Founder @ Rabid Tigers Project, 2002, "Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9 - The Nuclear Family Has Become Over-Extended," <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://list.webengr.com/pipermail/picoipo/2002-November/000208.html]]</span>]</span>
The Rabid Tiger Project believes that <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">AND </span>compelled to follow their client states.

Scenario Two is Indo-Pak War

Warming causes Indo-Pak war, disrupts irrigation patterns in Kashmir.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">IPS 2010 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Inter Press Service, January 18, "India/Pakistan: Reduced Himalayan snowfall could spark water war" http://www.alertnet.org/thenews/newsdesk/ips/14ecc8996051f75493d532d312e580ae.htm]</span>
SRINAGAR , Jan 18 (<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ipsnews.net/|IPS]]</span>AND <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">the mountains," </span>said Prof Sultan.

US military is key to solve, otherwise it escalates to a global nuclear war and draws in great powers
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Baker 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Michael L., former International Affairs resident fellow at CFR, The Coming Conflicts of Climate Change, September 7 2010, http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/coming-conflicts-climate-change/p22886]</span>
Perhaps <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">nowhere is this more concerning AND the challenges posed by climate change.</span>

Water sharing is the only scenario for Indo-Pak nuclear conflict.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bakshi and Trivedi 2011</span>
Gitanjali and Sahiba, Project Coordinator for the South Asia Security Unit at the Strategic Foresight Group and Joint Coordinator for the South Asia Security Unit., “The Indus Equation, June 2011, http://www.strategicforesight.com/110617.pdf
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Pakistan’s primary interest in Kashmir is AND </span>the Chenab River lies in Jammu

===1AC - Bronx/Georgetown=== 

CONTENTION ONE IS INHERENCY
Solar activity will increase in 2013, new predictive satellite won’t be funded now.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Walsh 9/27/11</span>
Bryan, Covers Environmental issues for TIME magazine, A Solar Storm Strikes Earth—and Provides a Warning for the Future, TIME Magazine Ecocentric blog, http://ecocentric.blogs.time.com/2011/09/27/a-solar-storm-strikes-earth%E2%80%94and-provides-a-warning-for-the-future/
But maybe I should start keeping AND the Earth's magnetic field is weakest.
The strongest solar storm in recorded AND be able to see it coming.

The Deep Space Climate Observatory or DSCOVR is not funded now and is key to prediction.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lautenbacher 2010</span>
Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010, Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html
In addition to events such as AND <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">let DSCOVR's launch funding be eliminated.</span>

PLAN
Plan: The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.

CONTENTION TWO IS SOLAR STORMS
Solar storm coming in 2013 – kills satellites and the grid.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tracton 10</span>
Steve, Dr. Tracton was a Program Officer for Marine Meteorology at the Office of Naval Research (ONR). Before that, for 31 years he was a research scientist at the National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP). Dr. Tracton is recognized internationally as a principal agent and advocate in development, application, and use of operational ensemble prediction systems and strategies for dealing with forecast uncertainty “Do Solar Storms Threaten Life as We Know It?” 4/6 <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://voices.washingtonpost.com/capitalweathergang/2009/04/do_solar_storms_threaten_civil.html]]</span>
__As severe as the possible effects AND__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">a future post. Stay tuned!! </span>

Early warning of storms solves blackouts and satellite failure.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Phillips 10 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Tony, production editor of Science@NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]</span>
<span class="underline">Earth and space are about to AND We take this very seriously indeed." </span>

SCENARIO ONE IS MELTDOWNS
Storms kill the grid and cause nuclear meltdown. Impact is extinction.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">IB Times 9/14/11</span>
International Business Times, Mike Adams – author and journalist, Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm
(NaturalNews) Forget about the AND go into a total meltdown simultaneously.

SCENARIO TWO IS PRIMACY
The 2013 storms will kill satellites – plasma erosion.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Knapp 9/14</span>/11
Alex, futurism columnist for Forbes, A Powerful Solar Storm Could Render Satellites Inoperable For Years, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/alexknapp/2011/09/14/a-powerful-solar-storm-could-render-satellites-inoperable-for-years/]]</span> JG
Last October, around Halloween, AND <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">diminish the impacts of such storms.</span>

Satellite support key to solve nuclear use – ISR.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wood 2011</span>
Jason D., Washington, D.C.-based Policy Analyst with Science Applications International Corporation. Working in support of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency’s Advanced Systems and Concepts Office, Strategic Security: Toward an Integrated Nuclear, Space, and Cyber Policy Framework, 9/16/11, http://csis.org/files/publication/110916_Wood.pdf
Space Support to the Nuclear MissionAND <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">a continuous period of time</span>.”6


Satellites key to BMD capability – command and control
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wood 2011</span>
Jason D., Washington, D.C.-based Policy Analyst with Science Applications International Corporation. Working in support of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency’s Advanced Systems and Concepts Office, Strategic Security: Toward an Integrated Nuclear, Space, and Cyber Policy Framework, 9/16/11, http://csis.org/files/publication/110916_Wood.pdf
In addition to monitoring foreign military AND , timing, and navigation.8

Key to nuclear primacy – complementary.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lieber and Press, 2006</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Keir A., is Assistant professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, Daryl G., Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania, “The end of MAD, The Nuclear Dimension of U.S. Primacy,”, Journal Article, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.belfercenter.org/is/|International Security]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, volume 30, issue 4, pages 7-44, SM]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">U.S. offensive nuclear AND interceptors could simply target them all.</span>

BMD solves primacy – first strike capability.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Yu and Guangqian, ‘09</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Rong, Ph. D. candidate at the Institute of International Strategy and Development, School of Public Policy and Management, Tsinghua University. and Peng, editor-in-chief of Strategic Sciences and has long been engaged in research on military strategy and international affairs. “Nuclear No-First-Use Revisited”, http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=225&Itemid=8#rp10</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">]</span>
In addition, the US Ballistic AND emptive or even preventative nuclear attack.

Nuclear primacy based hegemony means nobody risks even starting a conventional war for fear of the US power – makes the risk of great power conflict __zero__
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Craig</span>, 200<span style="font-size: 16px;">9</span> (Campbell, Professor of International Relations at the University of Southampton, “American power preponderance and the nuclear revolution,” Review of International Studies, Vol. 35, pages 27-44)
As Keir Lieber and Daryl Press AND revolution specifically reinforces each of them.

CONTENTION THREE IS CLIMATE CHANGE
Warming is irreversible – CO2 emissions and feedbacks.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Solomon et al, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ‘09</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106, http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf)</span>
Over the 20th century, the AND <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">peak level of carbon dioxide reached</span>.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lack of effective climate data is creating a gap in military response capabilities – decapitates effective interventionism.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]</span>
<span class="underline">Climate change will likely exacerbate trends AND well </span>prepared to meet future challenges<span class="underline">. </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">And, the only way climate knowledge is actionable is if we have effective data</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]</span>
Given the proliferation of new tools<span class="underline"> AND national secu­rity professionals need toask</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">DSCOVR solves its critical to calibrate climate models</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Williams 2008</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Obama’s first presidential pardon should be AND </span><span class="underline">a great boost</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the 1970s. </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">DSCOVR solves data gaps – unique position.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wiscombe and Herman 2002 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Warren and Jay, PhD in applied math from CalTech senior scientist at Goddard Chief Scientist for Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, L-1 and L-2 Observatories for Earth Science in the Post-2010 Era</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://esto.nasa.gov/conferences/igarss-2002/02Papers/02060940.PDF]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The L1 and L2 Lagrange points AND </span>by other networks and spaceborne platforms”

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The plan allows for a global intergrated observational system</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Valero 2007</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Francisco, DSCOVR, Earth Sciences from a New Perspective, Abstract from Seminar at the Atmospheric Physics Dept. at the University of Warsaw, [[http://www.igf.fuw.edu.pl/zfa/?option=com_seminars&Itemid=41&lang=en&archive=1&year=2007-2008&func=view&seminar=91]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The L-1 and LAND for the nation's investment in space. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A synergistic, integrated system composed of LEO, GEO, and SLPs platforms is likely the way of the future.</span>

US climate efforts are modeled – spills into military-to-military partnerships
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tussing 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">In emulation of the American effortAND </span>the camp of the civil authorities.

Military climate partnerships solve Indo-Pak water wars.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Baker 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Michael L., former International Affairs resident fellow at CFR, The Coming Conflicts of Climate Change, September 7 2010, http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/coming-conflicts-climate-change/p22886]</span>
Perhaps <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">nowhere is this more concerning AND the challenges posed by climate change.</span>

Glacial melt is the only threat to Indo-Pak peace – core interest.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wheeler 10-12-11</span>
William, National Geographic writer, India and Pakistan at Odds Over Shrinking Indus River, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2011/10/111012-india-pakistan-indus-river-water/
One of the potentially catastrophic consequences AND <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">still very serious and getting worse</span>."

Causes extinction – climactic shifts.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Starr and King 2009</span>
Steven and Peter, Senior Scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility based at the University of Missouri, research associate in Government and International Relations and convener of the West Papua Project in the Centre for Peace and Conflict Studies (CPACS) at the University of Sydney, 7-31-2009, Nuclear suicide, http://www.abc.net.au/unleashed/28772.html
Unfortunately, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">the nuclear weapon states AND -destruct mechanism for humanity.</span>

Water sharing is the only scenario for nuclear conflict.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bakshi and Trivedi 2011</span>
Gitanjali and Sahiba, Project Coordinator for the South Asia Security Unit at the Strategic Foresight Group and Joint Coordinator for the South Asia Security Unit., “The Indus Equation, June 2011, http://www.strategicforesight.com/110617.pdf
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Pakistan’s primary interest in Kashmir is AND </span>the Chenab River lies in Jammu.

===1AC - DSKOVR (Bronx)=== 

PLAN

The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.


ADVANTAGE ONE IS CLIMATE DENIAL

The science behind warming is rock solid, all opposition is unscientific and funded by the oil industry. We are reaching a tipping point where denialism will no longer be acceptable for policymaking

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CFR 9/25/11 </span></span>

Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special correspondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-ap__the_american__allergy__to_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader__

__NEW YORK (AP) — AND protect the habitat that sustains us."__


__However, climategate has disabled movements against warming and the proliferation__ nonscientific__,__ unfalsifiable__ is preventing us from addressing solutions

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Trenberth, ’11 [</span></span>Kevin E., Distinguished Senior Scientist in the Climate Analysis Section at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, head of the Climate Analysis Section at the USA National Center for Atmospheric Research, The guy who wrote "The fact is that we can't account for the lack of warming at the moment and it is a travesty that we can't.,” COMMUNICATING CLIMATE SCIENCE AND THOUGHTS ON CLIMATEGATE, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cgd.ucar.edu/cas/Trenberth/trenberth.papers/ClimategateThoughts4AMS_v3.pdf]]</span>]

This article briefly summarizes my AND when it is in fact false.


The Deep Space Climate Observatory or DSCOVR creates unprecedented proof against skepticism.

<span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">Anderson 10</span></span> (Mitchell, Staff Writer, The Tyee News, Vancouver Based Science Journalist, The Satellite that Could Save the World, http://mitchellanderson.blogspot.com/2010/02/satellite-that-could-save-world.html)

<span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 10pt;">The media missed the real story AND </span></span>discrepancies in our Earth observation instruments.


Climate change denial is complicit with the rejection of modern science – critics of social construction are risking billions of lives

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Berube, ’11</span></span> [Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature and Director of the Institute for the Arts and Humanities at Pennsylvania State University, where he teaches cultural studies and American literature, “The Science Wars Redux,” http://www.democracyjournal.org/pdf/19/BERUBE.pdf]

But what of Sokal’s chief postAND <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">even Heisenberg himself would be certain. </span></span>


Only verifiable scientific methods can prevent extinction – Alternative epistemologies refuse to accept the same falsifiable review our evidence goes through – disproves alternative methodologies which destroy academic debate

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coyne, 06</span></span> – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Supernatural forces and events, essential AND </span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">to heed Crews’s plea for empiricism.</span>


And climate denial is rooted in white supremacy – maintains privilege.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mandell 2008</span></span>

MANDELL Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project 2k8 Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow; Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289

[*297] <span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 10pt;">Fear of AND </span></span>traditionalist, capitalist ruling class." n52


You have an ethical obligation to reject racism.

**MEMMI** Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris 2000

Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165

<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The struggle against racism will be AND </span>of the other suggests the real utility

of such sentiments. All things AND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>


And DSCOVR data creates environmental movements by harnessing the internet. Allows unprecedented interconnectedness and empathy.

**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Williams 2008</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html]</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0.0001pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama’s first presidential pardon should be AND </span><span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">a great boost</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the 1970s. </span></span>


That’s critical to shift to biosphere consciousness and prevent extinction.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rifkin 2010</span></span>

Jeremy, author of 'The Empathic Civilization: The Race to Global Consciousness in a World in Crisis,' and advisor to the European Union, 'The Empathic Civilization': Rethinking Human Nature in the Biosphere Era, 1-11-10, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jeremy-rifkin/the-empathic-civilization_b_416589.html

<span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 10pt;">The pivotal turning points in human AND in time to avert planetary collapse?</span> </span>


ADVANTAGE TWO IS SPACE ENGAGEMENT

The affirmative is key to create a more genuine politics – The refusal to fund DSCOVR represents a failure of the democratic process – climate change denial has closed out the capacity of citizen participation via the refusal to engage in science

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wilholt 2006 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Torsten, assistant professor at the Philosophy Department of Bielefeld University, Scientific Autonomy and Planned Research: The Case of Space Science, Poiesis and Praxis 4 (4), 2006, 253-265. http://phillister.ub.uni-bielefeld.de/index.php/deliver/index/p/646/v/published/k/fulltext/f/spacescience.pdf]</span>

A second argument that might be AND to rest on yet another argument.


Lack of public engagement in space policy allows NASA to launch nuclear rockets.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grossman 2011</span></span>

Karl, Despite Solar Options, NASA-Nuclear Alliance Continues Plutonium-Powered Missions, professor of journalism at the State University of New York/College of New York, August 10, http://www.space4peace.org/articles/despite_solar_options.htm

As to why the use of AND <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">we can afford to take</span></span>."

The impact is extinction, accidents give every single person fatal lung cancer.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grossman 2011</span></span>

Karl, Despite Solar Options, NASA-Nuclear Alliance Continues Plutonium-Powered Missions, professor of journalism at the State University of New York/College of New York, August 10, http://www.space4peace.org/articles/despite_solar_options.htm

But if there is an accident AND 15 pounds of Plutonium-239.


Public engagement in space policy forces an end to drone use and the drive for space dominance.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wirbel and Sulzman 2009</span></span>

Loring and Bill, Citizens for Peace in Space, Colorado Springs/Global Network board members, From Space, No One Can Watch You Die, 9-28-9, http://www.space4peace.org/uav/from%20space.htm

Peace groups internationally are putting the AND <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">dominate the planet through unilateral control</span></span>.


Drones make racialized wars of choice inevitable and permanent – push button warfare.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wilcox 2009</span></span>

Lauren, PhD Candidate in PoliSci @ UMinnesota, Body Counts: The Politics of Embodiment in Precision Warfare, Political Theory Colloquium, December 11, 2009, http://www.polisci.umn.edu/pdf/Body%20Counts%20Theory%20Colloquium.doc

The increased precision of ‘smart AND high-tech targeting of terrorists.


Engagement in space policy solves your science bad turns – allows us to question power.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Valentino 1999 </span></span>[Mattio, Information, Technical Writing, Knowledge and Power: A Case Study of NASA's Cassini Project, Journal of Computer Documentation February 1999/Vol. 23, No. 1 (Peer reviewed), MA in Professional Communications from Clemson]

In layperson's terms, <span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 10pt;">if you AND </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">more than a sharpened cynical wit</span></span>.


Debates about space policy are critical – institutional background.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedensen 1999</span></span>

Victoria Pidgeon, <span class="st">Program Executive for the Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite at NASA, </span>Protest space : a study of technology choice, perception of risk, and space exploration, page 88, http://scholar.lib.vt.edu/theses/available/etd-120899-134345/unrestricted/08chapter_5.PDF

To bring R&D policyAND very stable and difficult to change."



==2AC Stuff== 

====Arctic Add-on==== 

Warming causes NATO-Russia war – collective defense.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Guardian 2008</span>
"Climate change may spark conflict with Russia, EU told" http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2008/mar/10/eu.climatechange
European governments have been told to AND is unlikely to protect energy security".

Operationalized data key to solve Arctic conflict.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Yalowitz et al 2008</span>
Kenneth S., Director, Dickey Center for International Understanding @ Dartmouth College, The Arctic Climate Change and Security Policy Conference, December 2008, http://carnegieendowment.org/files/arctic_climate_change.pdf
As the scientific understanding of climate AND between the science and policy communities.

Nuclear extinction
Bostrom ‘02
Nick Bostrum, PhD faculty of philosophy at Oxford, “Existential Risks
Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards,” Published in the Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">A much greater existential risk emerged AND know where to focus our efforts.</span>

====2AC - Security==== 

Perm do both – policy is responsive and even if the alt is coopted it’s the only way to solve.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kurki 2011</span></span>

Milja, The Limitations of the Critical Edge: Reflections on Critical and Philosophical IR Scholarship Today, Principal Investigator of ‘Political Economies of Democratisation’, a European Research Council-funded project based at the International Politics Department, Aberystwyth University, Millennium: Journal of International Studies 40(1) 129–146 September 2011 jg

We have yet another call … <span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in a world without any alternatives</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">.</span>


Fiat good – utopian imaginary solves participation and extinction.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Daniel 2006</span></span>

Sharon, professor of digital media @ UC Santa Cruz specializing in participatory culture, Intelligent Agent Vol6 No2, The Public Secret: Information and Social Knowledge, http://www.intelligentagent.com/archive/Vol6_No2_community_domain_daniel.htm jg

Jane Dorotik's suggested <span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">shift from a "… <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">survival of humankind </span>today <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">thinkable</span>.[48] </span></span>


Turn – the alt causes depoliticization and doesn’t solve.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Trombetta 2006 </span></span>

Maria Julia, "The Securitization of the Environment and the Transformation of Security" Post Doctoral researcher @ Delft University of Technology

On the other hand, <span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">securitization … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and the way of providing it.</span></span></span>


Treating the environment as a security issue challenges realist assumptions.

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barnett ‘1</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jon, Research Council Fellow In The School Of Social And Environmental Enquiry At The University Of Melbourne, The Meaning Of Environmental Security: Ecological Politics And Policy In The New Security Era, Chapter 9, 137-41]</span>

The question of whether it … <span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the project of environmental security.</span></span>

====2AC - OSTP Recommendation CP==== 

Recommendation already happened. Kick the counterplan.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">OSTP 2010</span></span>

A REVIEW OF GLOBAL LEARNING & OBSERVATIONS TO BENEFIT THE ENVIRONMENT (GLOBE) Achieving and Sustaining Earth Observations: A Preliminary Plan Based on a Strategic Assessment by the U.S. Group on Earth Observations http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/ostp-usgeo-report-earth-obs.pdf

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Recommendations: Refurbish</span></span> the Deep Space AND space weather and meteorological weather improvements.

====2AC - Warming Real==== 
Warming is real – newest studies say if anything the threat is understated. Also the study was funded by the Koch brothers.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Muller 10-21-11</span>
Richard A., professor of physics at the University of California, Berkeley, The Case Against Global-Warming Skepticism, Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204422404576594872796327348.html?mod=WSJ_Opinion_LEFTTopBucket
Are you a global warming skepticAND made no independent assessment of that.

====2AC - Jobs Politics==== 
The jobs bill is silent on race
Alcoff 11-14-11
(Linda Martin Alcoff, Professor of Philosophy, City of University New York, Herman Cain and Talking Race in America
The Mark, http://www.themarknews.com/articles/7417-herman-cain-and-talking-race-in-america)
What has been remarkable... are not hopping fences.

=<span style="font-size: 20px;">Negative</span>= 
==DAs== 
===Credit Downgrade DA=== 
The plan breaks fiscal framework – creates huge spending that strains the deficit
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hsu 9</span>[Feng, Ph.D. and Senior Fellow – Aerospace Technology Working Group, and Ken Cox, Ph.D. and Founder & Director – Aerospace Technology Working Group, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision”, 2-20, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">There arelimited financial resources … </span>but can be mutually supported.

The signal of a fiscal discipline framework has appeased Moody’s but they are watching to whether or not it will succeed – failure to curtail spending and maintain status quo plans for cuts triggers a downgrade

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Panchuk, ‘8-3</span> 8-3-11, Kerri Panchuk, “Moody's affirms US triple-A rating, but risks remain”, <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.housingwire.com/2011/08/03/moodys-affirms-us-triple-a-rating-but-risks-remain]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Moody's</span> Investors Service (<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://finance.yahoo.com/q?s=MCO|MCO]]</span>: 27.04 -3.19%) <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">confirmed … </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">the rating negatively</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">," Moody's said.</span>
Further downgrades risks a spiral in interest rates that collapses investor confidence
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Goldwein 8-11-2011 [</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Marc, senior policy analyst for the fiscal policy program at the New America Foundation and former Associate Director of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, The Atlantic, Drawing a AAA-Road Map for Post-Downgrade America, http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/08/drawing-a-aaa-road-map-for-post-downgrade-america/243463/]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">What are the consequences of … to bail out the U.S. government</span>.

The mead card. find it yourself.

====A/T: S&P Triggers==== 
The S&P downgrade put us on the brink, a further drop in investor confidence and another downgrade risks a downward economic spiral
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Danske Bank 8-12</span> Danske Bank, Largest bank in Denmark, 8-12-11, “Further Downgrade of US Debt Likely in 2012”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.actionforex.com/analysis/long-term-forecasts/further-downgrade-of-us-debt-likely-in-2012-20110812146467/]]</span>
Risk scenario 2: <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Drop in investor … </span>above what is currently expected.

S&P downgrade alone has no impact-Moody’s is key.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">TD Bank Financial Group 8-8-11</span>
Commercial bank based in Toronto, S&P Downgrade of U.S. Credit Rating Changes Nothing, http://www.actionforex.com/analysis/daily-forex-fundamentals/s%26p-downgrade-of-u.s.-credit-rating-changes-nothing-20110808146106/
Markets had the weekend to … <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">that would be more impactful.</span>
====Link Magnifier==== 
Snowballs – deficit spending gets sugar-coated with funding for other programs
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Fox News 5-24</span>(Chad Pergram, "Natural Disasters Could Challenge Campaign Spending Promises", http://politics.blogs.foxnews.com/2011/05/25/natural-disasters-could-challenge-campaign-spending-promises)
<span class="underline">It often starts like this.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> … to recover from the floods. </span>

====A/T: Impact Defense==== 
Broad statistical models prove – unmanaged economic declines lead to global conflict
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> [</span>Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
Less intuitive is how periods … debate and deserves more attention.

===F-35 Trade-off=== 
F-35 is at risk and key to heg
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thompson 10/21/11</span>
Loren, former Deputy Director of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University, Failure To Execute The F-35 Program As Planned Will Doom America's Global Military Posture, http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/failure-to-execute-the-f-35-program-as-planned-will-doom-americas-global-military-posture?a=1&c=1171
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The Department of Defense in conducting AND B to keep America on top.</span>

Space weapons trade off with F-35
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ziegler 1997</span>
David W., Major USAF, SAFE HEAVENS: MILITARY STRATEGY AND SPACE SANCTUARY THOUGHT, https://research.maxwell.af.mil/papers/ay1997/saas/ziegler_dw.pdf
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">In this budget-constrained environmentAND relative advantage in the other mediums</span>.

Cutting the F-35 is the DEATH KNELL for power projection in the Pacific, causes allied prolif.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Boot 9/13</span>/11
Max, Senior Fellow in National Security Studies @ Council on Foreign Relations, Indefensible Budget Cuts, 9/13/11, Before the
House Armed Services Committee United States House of Representatives First Session, 112th Congress
And <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">less capability is something we AND spending at the currently contemplated rate</span>.

===Indian Elections DA - MBA=== 
**A)** **UNIQUENESS**
**India’s Congress party will win the February elections in Uttar Pradesh now**
**Rediff, 1-4-2012**
(“Inhouse survey puts Congress-RLD ahead, BJP close 2nd"
http://www.rediff.com/news/slide-show/slide-show-1-congress-will-emerge-as-the-winner-in-up-polls-says-survey/20120104.htm)
__The combine of the ....__says the survey.

[INSERT LINK]

**(2) Opposition parties will seize the plan to drum up anti-Americanism and garner votes with Indian Muslims**
**Shenoy 2008**
(T. V. R., Researcher, Journalist-India First Foundation, “Congress has Left in debt trap”<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> http://www.rediff.com/cms/print.jsp?docpath=/news/2008/mar/18flip.htm)</span>
__The Left Front__ .... __at this moment.__


**(3) Indian Muslims key to the Uttar Pradesh elections**
**Wall Street Journal 1-4-2012**
(Note: the abbreviation UP in this evidence refers to Uttar Pradesh, “Politics Journal: Parties Vie for Upper Hand in Uttar Pradesh”
http://blogs.wsj.com/indiarealtime/2012/01/04/politics-journal-parties-vie-for-upper-hand-in-uttar-pradesh/)
Guess who the Samajwadi and Congress __parties are banking ...__ seats on its own.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>

**C) IMPACTS**

**(1) The Congress Party needs to win the election in Uttar Pradesh to have the strength and credibility to move forward with the peace process in Kashmir**
**Kashmir Times, 12-9-2011 (LexisNexis)**
__UPA government's preoccupation with its own ....__ __**Congress party has tied its fortunes in the polls to the prospects of its future leadership**.__

**(2) The Kashmir conflict will escalate to nuclear war and would draw in the US and China**
**Margolis, 2010**
(Eric, International Author and Policy Analyst for New York Time and International Herald Tribune, “Kashmir: Three Minutes From Nuclear War”,
http://www.lewrockwell.com/margolis/margolis206.html)
In my first book, War at the Top of the ...__major rivers and, eventually, the entire globe.__


==CPs== 
===ITAR CP=== 
Solves aerospace and leadership
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Carafano 2011 </span>[James, senior research fellow for national security at the Heritage Foundation, 8-21-11, America is forfeiting its place in space, http://washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/columnists/2011/08/america-forfeiting-its-place-space]
What was once thought impossible AND excessive laws and regulations.
==Ks== 
===Deleuze and Guattari=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The call for technology, is not neutral – these drives are existent everywhere around us but continue to fail. The affs attempt to constantly innovate technology to solve their harms only exacerbates their impacts. The problem is not technology, rather it is the self.</span>
Pierre-Félix <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Guattari</span> was a French militant, institutional psychotherapist and philosopher, a founder of both schizoanalysis and ecosophy. "The Three Ecologies" <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1989</span>, pp. 31-32

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is to vote negative to embrace rhizomatic politics – a constant shifting of political ideologies with no stable core. This the only way to question the fascism of the self. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conley in 2006</span> (Verena Andermatt, professor of literature at Harvard, “Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, 95-100)


==Case== 
===Heg=== 
Domestic politics means the US won’t exercise hegemony – means no impact.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kupchan 2011</span></span>
Charles A., professor of international affairs at Georgetown University and Whitney Shepardson Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, The false promise of unipolarity: constraints on the exercise of American power, Cambridge Review of International Affairs, Volume 24, Number 2, June 2011

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">A final chink in the armour AND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">how to deploy their national power</span></span></span>.

===Climate Denial=== 

Changing data doesn’t solve adaptation strategies – massive psychological research.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kitcher 2010</span>
Philip, Department of Philosophy, Columbia University, The Climate Change Debates, Science 4 June 2010: Vol. 328 no. 5983 pp. 1230-1234, http://www.sciencemag.org/content/328/5983/1230.1.full
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Even if American public opinion were AND </span>intellectuals for advancing their political aims.

Climate certainty is impossible and politicizes science
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hulme 2009 </span>
Mike, author of "Why We Disagree About Climate Change," and Professor of Climate Change at the University of East Anglia, The Science and Politics of Climate Change, Wall Street Journal, December 2nd 2009, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704107104574571613215771336.html
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">If we build the foundations of AND </span>aspect of the science is undermined.

Turns case – politicized science isn’t credible, means no policy response.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Michaels 2011</span>
Patrick J., Senior Fellow in Environmental Studies at the Cato Institute, The Politicization of Science Is Undermining the Credibility of Academia, 2-10-11, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12779
In a recent and wonderful New AND <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">editors of our major scientific journals.</span>

===China ASATs=== 
China won’t attack in space – aff’s research is massively flawed.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zhang and McClung 2010</span>
Xiaoming and Sean D., associate professor in the Department of Leadership and Strategy at the Air War College, director, National Space Studies Center at Air University, The Art of Military Discovery Chinese Air and Space Power Implications for the USAF, Strategic Studies Quarterly Spring 2010, http://www.au.af.mil/au/ssq/2010/spring/zhangmcclung.pdf
Even so, the principal dilemma AND <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">the discovery of China’s true directions.</span>

Their studies are flawed – cherry pick data, second hand sources, translation failures.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zhang and McClung 2010</span>
Xiaoming and Sean D., associate professor in the Department of Leadership and Strategy at the Air War College, director, National Space Studies Center at Air University, The Art of Military Discovery Chinese Air and Space Power Implications for the USAF, Strategic Studies Quarterly Spring 2010, http://www.au.af.mil/au/ssq/2010/spring/zhangmcclung.pdf
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The lack of transparency has historically AND </span>thinking about the issues at hand.

===Solar Flares=== 

STEREO solves – their evidence doesn’t assume new techniques.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Montalbano 8-22-11</span>
Elizabeth, InformationWeek Government, NASA Improves Solar Storm Forecasting, http://informationweek.com/news/government/enterprise-apps/231500464
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">NASA is using new data-AND physical processes of the space environment</span>.

New models solve their advantage, provides PREDICTIVE EARLY WARNING to satellite operators and the grid.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">SWPC 10-19-11</span>
Space Weather Prediction Center, the part of NOAA that would do the aff, Space weather prediction model improves NOAA’s forecast skill, http://www.noaanews.noaa.gov/stories2011/20111019_spaceweather.html
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">NOAA is now using a sophisticated AND </span>storm system is likely to unfold.

They don’t assume new methods that solve.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Karpova 9-29-11</span>
Lisa, Pravda – Russian newspaper, Scientists develop methods to detect solar activity, http://english.pravda.ru/science/tech/29-09-2011/119188-Scientists_develop_methods_to_detect_solar_activity-0/
Together <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">with data from NASA spacecraftAND </span>news conference for the scientific program.

==Misc== 
===DSCOVR Neg=== 

No solvency – if DSCOVR had been funded in February it would have taken until 2013 to launch. The plan is too late to solve the solar flares advantage.
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Clark 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Stephen, Reporter for Spaceflight Now, 2/21, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission” http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]</span>
The White House is requesting $AND the next solar maximum in 2013.

And fiat doesn’t solve, rushing the launch means DSCOVR will blow up. Columbia proves.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">MSNBC 2003</span>
Shuttle report blames NASA culture, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/3077541/ns/technology_and_science-space/t/shuttle-report-blames-nasa-culture/
WASHINGTON, Aug. 26, AND that organizational flaw, he said.

===China War Card=== 
US-China war causes extinction – deterrence doesn’t check.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wittner 11-30-11</span>
Lawrence, Professor of History emeritus at SUNY/Albany, Is a Nuclear War With China Possible?, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lawrence-wittner/nuclear-war-china_b_1116556.html jgeldof
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">PLAN</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">ADVANTAGE ONE IS CLIMATE DENIAL</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">The science behind warming is rock solid, all opposition is unscientific and funded by the oil industry. We are reaching a tipping point where denialism will no longer be acceptable for policymaking</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CFR 9/25/11 </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special correspondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-ap__the_american__allergy__to_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader__</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">__NEW YORK (AP) — AND protect the habitat that sustains us."__</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">__However, climategate has disabled movements against warming and the proliferation__ nonscientific__,__ unfalsifiable__ is preventing us from addressing solutions</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Trenberth, ’11 [</span></span>Kevin E., Distinguished Senior Scientist in the Climate Analysis Section at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, head of the Climate Analysis Section at the USA National Center for Atmospheric Research, The guy who wrote "The fact is that we can't account for the lack of warming at the moment and it is a travesty that we can't.,” COMMUNICATING CLIMATE SCIENCE AND THOUGHTS ON CLIMATEGATE, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cgd.ucar.edu/cas/Trenberth/trenberth.papers/ClimategateThoughts4AMS_v3.pdf]]</span>]</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">This article briefly summarizes my AND when it is in fact false.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">The Deep Space Climate Observatory or DSCOVR creates unprecedented proof against skepticism.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">Anderson 10</span></span> (Mitchell, Staff Writer, The Tyee News, Vancouver Based Science Journalist, The Satellite that Could Save the World, http://mitchellanderson.blogspot.com/2010/02/satellite-that-could-save-world.html)</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 10pt;">The media missed the real story AND </span></span>discrepancies in our Earth observation instruments.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Climate change denial is complicit with the rejection of modern science – critics of social construction are risking billions of lives</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Berube, ’11</span></span> [Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature and Director of the Institute for the Arts and Humanities at Pennsylvania State University, where he teaches cultural studies and American literature, “The Science Wars Redux,” http://www.democracyjournal.org/pdf/19/BERUBE.pdf]</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">But what of Sokal’s chief postAND <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">even Heisenberg himself would be certain. </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Only verifiable scientific methods can prevent extinction – Alternative epistemologies refuse to accept the same falsifiable review our evidence goes through – disproves alternative methodologies which destroy academic debate</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coyne, 06</span></span> – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Supernatural forces and events, essential AND </span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">to heed Crews’s plea for empiricism.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">And climate denial is rooted in white supremacy – maintains privilege.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mandell 2008</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">MANDELL Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project 2k8 Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow; Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">[*297] <span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 10pt;">Fear of AND </span></span>traditionalist, capitalist ruling class." n52</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">You have an ethical obligation to reject racism.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">MEMMI Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris 2000</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The struggle against racism will be AND </span>of the other suggests the real utility</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">of such sentiments. All things AND <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">, but the stakes are irresistible.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">And DSCOVR data creates environmental movements by harnessing the internet. Allows unprecedented interconnectedness and empathy.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Williams 2008</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin: 0in 0.2in 0.0001pt; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama’s first presidential pardon should be AND </span><span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">a great boost</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the 1970s. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">That’s critical to shift to biosphere consciousness and prevent extinction.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rifkin 2010</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Jeremy, author of 'The Empathic Civilization: The Race to Global Consciousness in a World in Crisis,' and advisor to the European Union, 'The Empathic Civilization': Rethinking Human Nature in the Biosphere Era, 1-11-10, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jeremy-rifkin/the-empathic-civilization_b_416589.html</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 10pt;">The pivotal turning points in human AND in time to avert planetary collapse?</span> </span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">ADVANTAGE TWO IS SPACE ENGAGEMENT</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">The affirmative is key to create a more genuine politics – The refusal to fund DSCOVR represents a failure of the democratic process – climate change denial has closed out the capacity of citizen participation via the refusal to engage in science</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wilholt 2006 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Torsten, assistant professor at the Philosophy Department of Bielefeld University, Scientific Autonomy and Planned Research: The Case of Space Science, Poiesis and Praxis 4 (4), 2006, 253-265. http://phillister.ub.uni-bielefeld.de/index.php/deliver/index/p/646/v/published/k/fulltext/f/spacescience.pdf]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">A second argument that might be AND to rest on yet another argument.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Lack of public engagement in space policy allows NASA to launch nuclear rockets.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grossman 2011</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Karl, Despite Solar Options, NASA-Nuclear Alliance Continues Plutonium-Powered Missions, professor of journalism at the State University of New York/College of New York, August 10, http://www.space4peace.org/articles/despite_solar_options.htm</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">As to why the use of AND <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">we can afford to take</span></span>."</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">The impact is extinction, accidents give every single person fatal lung cancer.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grossman 2011</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Karl, Despite Solar Options, NASA-Nuclear Alliance Continues Plutonium-Powered Missions, professor of journalism at the State University of New York/College of New York, August 10, http://www.space4peace.org/articles/despite_solar_options.htm</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">But if there is an accident AND 15 pounds of Plutonium-239.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Public engagement in space policy forces an end to drone use and the drive for space dominance.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wirbel and Sulzman 2009</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Loring and Bill, Citizens for Peace in Space, Colorado Springs/Global Network board members, From Space, No One Can Watch You Die, 9-28-9, http://www.space4peace.org/uav/from%20space.htm</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Peace groups internationally are putting the AND <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">dominate the planet through unilateral control</span></span>.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Drones make racialized wars of choice inevitable and permanent – push button warfare.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wilcox 2009</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Lauren, PhD Candidate in PoliSci @ UMinnesota, Body Counts: The Politics of Embodiment in Precision Warfare, Political Theory Colloquium, December 11, 2009, http://www.polisci.umn.edu/pdf/Body%20Counts%20Theory%20Colloquium.doc</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">The increased precision of ‘smart AND high-tech targeting of terrorists.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Engagement in space policy solves your science bad turns – allows us to question power.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Valentino 1999 </span></span>[Mattio, Information, Technical Writing, Knowledge and Power: A Case Study of NASA's Cassini Project, Journal of Computer Documentation February 1999/Vol. 23, No. 1 (Peer reviewed), MA in Professional Communications from Clemson]</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">In layperson's terms, <span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 10pt;">if you AND </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">more than a sharpened cynical wit</span></span>.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Debates about space policy are critical – institutional background.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedensen 1999</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Victoria Pidgeon, <span class="st">Program Executive for the Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite at NASA, </span>Protest space : a study of technology choice, perception of risk, and space exploration, page 88, http://scholar.lib.vt.edu/theses/available/etd-120899-134345/unrestricted/08chapter_5.PDF</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">To bring R&D policyAND very stable and difficult to change."</span>