[[toc]]




=Burke Kritik= 
==[[#Burke Kritik-1NC]]1NC== 
**The 1AC’s enframing of strategic and technical reason reifies an ontology and epistemology of violence—their technological worldview reduces all beings to standing-reserve and guarantees extinction**
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Burke 7</span>__—Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” Project MUSE)
<span style="font-size: 17.6px;">This essay develops ... limited impact -- </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 17.6px;">it permeates being</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>**</span>

**The judge should take on the role of the intellectual – vote negative to exchange the ontology of being for one of becoming—this free relationship to technology entails a questioning that can break free from technological thought and re-imagine the world from outside the political space**
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Burke 7</span>__—Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” Project MUSE)
I was motivated to...<span style="font-size: 16px;">insecurity and violence? Will our thought?</span>

==[[#Burke Kritik-STRATCOM Link]]STRATCOM Link== 
This is the conclusion to their rinne evidence – stratcom’s modus operandi is the definition of a rarified ontology of certainty – they don’t have to answer to anyone and will spin information to fit their colonizing mission. This focus on speed and technology puts us on the brink of extinction hourly
**<span style="color: #000000;">Rinne</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">, Tim 20**09**-08-0 6 United Nations association, Nebraska Chapter </span><span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.afterdowningstreet.org/node/45020]]</span><span style="color: #000000;">, </span>
<span class="Underline">Count </span>Congress<span class="Underline">, </span>the ...<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">live with StratCom.</span>

==[[#Burke Kritik-1NR Framework]]<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">1NR Framework</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">And, the role of intellectuals is to critically oppose patterns of domination. Only this form of interrogation renews value to life</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Gill, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">professor of political science at York University, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 14.6667px;">2000</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">[Stephen, //Questioning Geopolitics//, p. 130-131]</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">So what is ...</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> of historical time. </span>



Intervention into the aff’s regime of truth is a way to challenge the hegemony of modernity’s technological thought and drive for control. The inevitable demand by the affirmative that we produce concrete solutions to the problems they have identified only obscures the real politics at plan. The alternative is a necessary first step to re-build the world brink-by-brick.


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Edkins</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">, Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales at Aberystwyth, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in ‘6</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Jenny December 20</span>06<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">, </span>“The Local, the Global and the Troubling,” Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy, Vol. 9 No. 4, pg. 499-511]

Of course, 'this... of particular instances.

==[[#Burke Kritik-1NR AT Perm]]1NR AT Perm== 
Being critical of violence does not mean the perm works – the logic they use to argue that doing the plan is absolutely necessary is rooted in the same metaphysics that makes other ways of being impossible.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Burke</span>, Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">07 </span>
[Anthony, Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason]
I was motivated to ...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> dysfunctional or chaotic.</span>

==[[#Burke Kritik-1NR AT Thayer]]1NR AT Thayer== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Thayer’s argument misapplies biological science as a justification for naturalizing patriarchy and domination.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Mark </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 16px;">Busser</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">, Masters Candidate at the Dept of Political Science at York University. Aug 200</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 16px;">6</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">. (“The Evolution of Security: Revisiting the Human Nature Debate in International Relations ”, [[http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP40-Busser.pdf]])</span>
The political and ...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> naturalize their ubiquity.</span>










=[[#Ecology K]]<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ecology K</span>= 

The affirmative is putting the cart before the horse. They look towards space for salvation from ecological woes without thinking about how we got here in the first place. Absent self-reflection they will just replicate in space the same destructive practices that got us into this mess.

__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">McLean</span>__<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">0</span>**</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">6</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> [Margaret R. ,Assistant director of the Markkula Center for Applied Ethics at Santa Clara University </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scu.edu/ethics/publications/ethicalperspectives/space-exploration.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">]</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">With yesterday's …</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;"> of space exploration.</span>




Nothing will change, we will pretend like we aren’t part of the problem while our imperialist practices expand into a new theatre.

__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Marshall 95</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Alan, Institute of Development Studies at Massey University “Development and Imperialism in Space” Space Policy 1995 11(l) 41-52 ]</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Development in …</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;"> from using them.</span>

The alternative is to resituate the human in the ecological – only through a solar ethics can we reconceive moral action in space – it’s a prerequisite to the aff

__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Peters and Hung 09</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">, [ProfessorEducation Policy, Organization and Leadership, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Department of Education, National Chiayi University, Taiwan,</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, “Awe and Humility: Intrinsic Value in Nature: Beyond an Earthbound Environmental Ethics,” </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cseserv.engr.scu.edu/StudentAccounts/ENGR019Winter2003/DFlores/Keekok_Lee.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">]</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">The solar system…</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;"> the action itself</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">.</span>
==[[#Ecology K-1NR Impact framing]]<span style="font-size: 16px;">1NR Impact framing</span>== 



**The aff’s impact calculus is flawed, humans and even Earth are insignificant as opposed to the damage humanity can do to the universe**

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Petersand Hung 09</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">(MICHAEL A , Professor Education Policy, Organization and Leadership, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and Ruyu, Hung Department of Education, National Chiayi University, Taiwan Policy Futures in Education Volume 7 Number 3 2009, “Solar Ethics: a new paradigm for environmental ethics and education?,” </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wwwords.co.uk/pdf/validate.asp?j=pfie&vol=7&issue=3&year=2009&article=5_Peters_PFIE_7_3_web]]</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> page 327-328 ]</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, in our ...of environmental education.</span>

==[[#Ecology K-1NR SPS link]]<span style="font-size: 16px;">1NR SPS link</span>== 
Entire industries are salivating at the thought of the plan – making consumption more environmentally-friendly is an attractive label for consumers, allowing corporations to further their control over the global environment by painting themselves as responsible stewards.

<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Luke1999</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, [Timothy W., Professor of Political Science at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Discourses of the Environment, p. 141-42]</span>



<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">In some sectors...</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">or wildlife are used?</span>

==[[#Ecology K-1NR AT Perm]]<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR AT Perm</span>== 
**It is a question of sequencing, must attend to environmental ethics of space exploration prior to deciding course of actions**
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Hargrove 86</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, [Eugene C., Currently University of North Texas, Professor Department of Philosophy and Religion Studies, Beyond spaceship earth : environmental ethics and the solar system, Ed. Hargrove, p. ix – xi]</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Although the Earth ...</span> of these goals.


**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">The alt is a pre requisite to the plan</span>**
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Daly 8 </span>__</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Erin and Robert, graduate student School of Life Sciences at Arizona State University, and Frodeman, chair of Department of Philosophy at University of North Texas “Separated At Birth, Signs Of Rapprochement Environmental Ethics And Space Exploration” Ethics & the Environment Volume 13, Number 1, Spring 2008 accessed: 7-02-11 </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/ethics_and_the_environment/v013/13.1.daly.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> pg140)</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">This </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">anthropocentric and...</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> our home plane.</span>


==[[#Ecology K-1NR AT Link Turn]]<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR AT Link Turn</span>== 
**They say that they link turn by solving consumption - The cataloguing and control of consumptive habits is the justification for massive state intervention and domination of capitalist society**
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Luke 99</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Timothy W. ,professor of political science at Virginia polytechnic institute and state university, Capitalism, Democracy, and Ecology: Departing from Marx, , pg. 71-72]</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">This comodifying circuit ... satisfying social services.</span>


==[[#Ecology K-1NR AT Realism]]<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR AT Realism</span>== 
First, the ontological baggage of the 1ac is what produces realism as objective and inevitable. The aff incarcerates us in the prison of power politics.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Shapiro, and Alker, in ‘96</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Micheal J and Hayward R., Challenging Boundaries: Global Flows, Territorial Identities, pg 42-43]</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consequently, two rather p...</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;"> conception of [utilitarian] rational behaviour</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">. 27</span>

=[[#Deleuze Qritiq]]<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deleuze Qritiq</span>= 
==[[#Deleuze Qritiq-1NC]]<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">The world around us is failing – on the brink of extinction, our lives are not joyous but melancholy and the solutions of technology have failed. Politics has no hope of saving us.</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 16px;">Guattari 89</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">, [Pierre-Félix French militant, institutional psychotherapist and philosopher, a founder of both schizoanalysis and ecosophy. "The Three Ecologies" pp. 27-29]</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Earth is …</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 12px;">of religious fundamentalism.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">The 1AC tries to order the chaos into something easy to accept - reducing as many effects to as few causes as possible ignoring the multiplicit nature of the world</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 16px;">Srnicek ’10</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"> [Nick, , PhD Student at London School of Economics and Political Science “Conflict Networks: Collapsing the Global into the Local” Journal of Critical Globalisation Studies, Issue 2 (2010) </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; text-decoration: none;">[[http://lse.academia.edu/NickSrnicek/Papers]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">This leads us … with the local</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">This way of thinking is a transmission of the bad affects of a system that is designed to organize what it means to be human and what it means for humans to be secure, how they should live, what they should think. You must resist the transmission of this melancholy at all costs, for it negates the pleasure of being alive</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 16px;">Deleuze and Parnet ’87</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">[famous philosopher, Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne, Dialogues II, European Perspectives, with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, translated by Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam, 2002 pgs.61-62]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">When Spinoza says …</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> not to save it.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Reject the affirmative’s call to take certain action in order to save the future - use the ballot to encounter the present, experience the pleasure of a precarious existence and find the world as if you are experiencing everything for the first time</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 16px;">Deleuze and Parnet ’87</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"> [famous philosopher, Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne, Dialogues II, European Perspectives, with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, translated by Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam, 2002 pgs 47-51]</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Your secret can … off until tomorrow.</span>

==[[#Deleuze Qritiq-1NR Impact Framing]]1NR Impact Framing== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Even if they do win that their case ultimately does prevent some great catastrophe, you are an empiricist finding beauty in the flows of material and you should not be sentimental about organic life. The aff hasn’t offered a prior justification for caring about their brand of imminent catastrophe</span>**
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 16px;">De Landa ‘97</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Manuel de Landa, Adjunct Associate Professor at Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation at Columbia University (New York), the Gilles Deleuze Chair of Contemporary Philosophy and Science at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, a professor at the Canisius College in Buffalo, New York, and professor at the University of Pennsylvania School of Design in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. “A thousand years of non-linear history” Cambridge University Press, 1997 pgs. 103-105</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">In the eyes …their size increases.3</span>

==[[#Deleuze Qritiq-1NR AT Perm]]1NR AT Perm== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">We're methodologically competitive -- our alternative is not some arbitrarily utopian course of action but rather a conceptual apparatus that encounters a different world than the plan. The politics of the affirmative are one of __forced movement__ reacting against a chaotic universe by naively designing false models that insist upon the success of order, repeating the catastrophe in the same method that it is caused. If the perm has a net-benefit then it demonstrably relies on the desirability of a conceptually ordered world that should be rejected. The politics of the alternative is natural movement, which takes joy in the dynamics of historical material and is necessary to understand the conditions of possibility for all political becoming </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 16px;">Deleuze ’87</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"> Gilles, famous philosopher, Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne, The Opera Quarterly 21.4 (2005) 716-724</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">A process of rationalization …</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">slowly committed massacres.[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.lib.umich.edu/journals/opera_quarterly/v021/21.4deleuze.html#FOOT14|__14__]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"> [End Page 722]</span>

==[[#Deleuze Qritiq-1NR AT Taft Kaufman]]1NR AT Taft Kaufman== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">This evidence has it backwards—it says that discourse emerges from material structures—we agree that political and economic structures exist, but our __understanding__ of those structures and the way in which they function is mediated through discourse </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Grondin 4</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8px;">—master of pol sci and PHD of political studies @ U of Ottowa(David, “(Re)Writing the “National Security State”: How and Why Realists (Re)Built the(ir) Cold War,” [[http://www.er.uqam.ca/nobel/ieim/IMG/pdf/rewriting_national_security_state.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8px; text-align: justify;">In this light, … considered as ontology.</span>