=Affirmative= 
[[toc]]
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space Guard 1AC</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan Text</span>=== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should develop Space Guard civil space situational awareness**


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Advantage One is Space Situational Awareness (SSA)</span>=== 

**All Qualified experts agree – Orbital debris is at the tipping point – failure to control it collapses our space assets**
The Telegraph 2k11
(“Space so full of junk that a satellite collision could destroy communications on Earth,” February, pg online @ [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8295546/Space-so-full-of-junk-that-a-satellite-collision-could-destroy-communications-on-Earth.html]] //ghs-bprp)//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space so full of junk … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Cup next month in Johannesburg."</span>//
//**Unchecked debris causes extinction**//
//**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scheetz</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Law at Georgetown,</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">6</span>__** **(Lori, J.D. …** __<span style="font-size: 12pt;">well as military purposes</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">." n90 </span>//


**The Plan advances a space legal regime in the short term and builds global support to solve debris and collisions**
//Hays 2k10//
//(Peter, PhD and director of the U.S. Air Force Institute for National Security Studies, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower” December 13, 2010, NDU Press Chapter 28, pg online @ [http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html]//greenhill-au)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Most </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">spacefaring</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">actors</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">understand the … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">care, and follow established procedures.</span>


**Space law prevents extinction; creates cooperation**
Hays 2k10
(Peter, PhD and director of the U.S. Air Force Institute for National Security Studies, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower” December 13, 2010, NDU Press Chapter 28, pg online @ [http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html]//greenhill-au)//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Other </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">impediments to further developing … Sun.</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> The message is clear: </span>//
//**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">environmental degradation and space phenomena … </span>__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">improve our odds for survival.</span>//


**And, Cooperative SSA Results in Active Debris Removal – U.S. Efforts are Critical**
//Weeden 2k9//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brian Weeden, Bachelor's in Science (B.S.) in Electrical Engineering from Clarkson University and a Masters in Science (M.S) in Space Studies from the University of North Dakota. He is also a graduate of the International Space University Space Studies Program, has over a decade of professional technical and operations experience in the national and international space security arena. His wealth of technical knowledge has established him as a thought leader for providing critical analysis that supports development of space policy on a global scale. Prior to joining the Foundation, Mr. Weeden served nine years on active duty as an officer in the United States Air Force working in space and ICBM operations. As part of U.S. Strategic Command's Joint Space Operations Center (JSpOC), Captain Weeden directed the orbital analyst training program and developed tactics, techniques and procedures for improving space situational awareness. In his current role as Technical Advisor, Mr. Weeden conducts research on global space situational awareness, space traffic management, protection of space assets, and prevention of conflict in space. “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...,” SAT Magazine, pg online @ [[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455]] </span>//ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">More recently, we have also … that works in concert with </span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">the others. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Debris mitigation is … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">ensure that no collisions happen.</span>


**And developing space law resulting from the plan enables protection of intellectual property for debris removal mechanisms**
Weeden 2k11
(Brian, Bachelor's in Science (B.S.) in Electrical Engineering from Clarkson University and a Masters in Science (M.S) in Space Studies from the University of North Dakota. He is also a graduate of the International Space University Space Studies Program, has over a decade of professional technical and operations experience in the national and international space security arena, February 1, 2011, “Overview of the legal and policy challenges of orbital debris removal” Space Policy 27 (2011) 38e43, pg online @ sciencedirect//greenhill-au)//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">3.8. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Removal of debris</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> objects </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">… chances for misperceptions and mistrust</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>//


**Space IPR Spills over terrestrially**
//Brisibe 2k6//
//(Tare, PhD and Legal Services and International Cooperation Head at the Universtity Of Mississippi School of Law, JOURNAL OF SPACE Law, “Outer Space Activities and IntellectualProperty Protection in Nigeria” Volume 32, No. 2, Winter 2006, pg online//greenhill-au)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">It has been argued that </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">… </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">article and is not addressed.</span>




**IPR enforcement restores competitiveness and jobs-- makes global trade effectiv**e
**Reuters** **2k10**
**(“US says protecting IP rights a top trade priority” April 26, 2010, pg online @ [http://www.theglobalipcenter.com/news/us-says-protecting-ip-rights-top-trade-priority]//greenhill-au)//**
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">"</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">has … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Chambers' Global Intellectual Property Center.</span>//


**US trade leadership is vital to prevent trading blocs that result in global conflicts-only co-op solves**
//<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Bergsten</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span>, Director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics & former Assistant Secretary for International Affairs at the Treasury Department, 9-27-<span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span> (C. Fred, “America and the World,” The Economist, http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/print.cfm?doc=pub&ResearchID=291//arnav-kejriwal)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Third, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">American leadership has been … staying power in other respects.</span>__

**Nuclear war**
Spicer 96
(British Member of Parliament and Chairperson of the European Research Group, Michael, The Challenge from the East and the Rebirth of the West, New York: St. Martin’s Press, p. 121)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The choice facing the West</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> … a premium in the years ahead</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**SSA is at a CRITICAL stage now – A civilian organization is necessary for an International Regime-military SSA destroys co-op**
Bennett 2k10
(James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model:A Third Organizational Option For InternationalSSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, pg online @ [[http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf]] //ghs-ef)//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Recent events have underscored the … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the USAF as a </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">collaborative partner</span>__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>//

**Space Guard key to personnel and missions**

//Bennett 2k10//
//(James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model:A Third Organizational Option For InternationalSSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, pg online @ [[http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf]]// ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">3</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. A US Space Guard</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (USSG). … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Commandant of the Space Guard.</span>__

**And, a U.S.-Led cooperative SSA establishes a legal regime that prevents miscalc with international cooperation**
Weeden 2k9
(Brian Weeden, is a technical consultant for the Secure World Foundation and former U.S. Air Force officer with a background in space surveillance and ICBM operations. “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...,” SAT Magazine, pg online @ [[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455]] //ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">SSA as the Foundation </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">International … the benefit of all humankind</span>__
===Advantage Two is Air force=== 

**First, the Air Force is Overstretched Now – Air Power focus key to deterrence**
Moseley 2k7
(18th Chief of Staff @ … <span style="font-size: 5pt;">is essential to victory. Pg. 2-9 //1ac//</span>

**And, Space Services Gut the Air Force’s Warfighting Mission and aerospace power – re-balancing priorities is key**
//McKinley 2k//
//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley (BA, Moorhead State University; MS, Troy State University; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies) is commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron, Peterson AFB, Colorado, which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. Prior to assuming command, she was the deputy director of the commander’s action group at AFSPC. A graduate of Squadron Officer School and Air Command and Staff College, Colonel McKinley has published articles in Aviation Week and Space Technology, Space News, and several symposia proceedings, She has also been a guest lecturer at Air War College and space war games. “Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” Aerospace Power Journal - Spring 2000, pg online @ [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm]] </span>//ghs-ef)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Organizations are created to accomplish a … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">tensions will and must emerge.</span>

**And, the plan re-balances Air Force priorities and ensures space services get their own funding and support agency**
McKinley 2k
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley (BA, Moorhead State University; MS, Troy State University; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies) is commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron, Peterson AFB, Colorado, which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. Prior to assuming command, she was the deputy director of the commander’s action group at AFSPC. A graduate of Squadron Officer School and Air Command and Staff College, Colonel McKinley has published articles in Aviation Week and Space Technology, Space News, and several symposia proceedings, She has also been a guest lecturer at Air War College and space war games. “Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” Aerospace Power Journal - Spring 2000, pg online @ [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm]] //ghs-ef)//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The United States Space Guard … exploit space for national benefit.</span>//


**And, an Effective Air Force Prevents Conflicts Over India-Pakistan, South China Sea and Deters CBW Attacks**
//Tellis et al ‘98//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ashley, Ashley J., Senior Political Scientist at RAND specializing in South Asian Security, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, pg online @ [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf]] </span>//ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">REGIONAL CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR … the revolution in military affairs.</span>


**Indo-Pak nuclear war wipes out the planet – computer models prove**
GSN 10
(Global Security Newswire, “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate World Population, Report Warns,” [[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100315_4193.php]])
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Computer modeling suggests a nuclear exchange … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">University of Colorado at Boulder.</span>


**And, South China Sea war draws in major powers and escalates**
Waldron 97
(Arthur, professor of Strategy and Policy at the Naval War College Commentary, 3-1, [[http://www.aei.org/publications/pubID.7442,filter.all/pub_detail.asp]])
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Then there is Southeast Asia, … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan--or the United States.</span>__


**World War III**
Knight Ridder 2k
(Jonathon S. Landay, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts”, 3-11, L/N)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Few if any experts think … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">are elements for potential disaster."</span>__
===**Advantage Three is NASA**=== 
**The plan solves NASA overstretch – it reduces bureaucracy, increases coordination and refocuses it**

Engineering Ethics 11 (Written by a consulting engineer and who teaches engineering courses at Texas State University; citing James C. Bennett, "From NASA to USSG: Fixing the U. S. Space Programs", 6/20/11,
engineeringethicsblog.blogspot.com/2011/06/from-nasa-to-ussg-fixing-u-s-space.html//ghs-avi)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The domination by NASA of </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">… </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">do the right thing about it. </span>

**NASA credibility is key to effective Earth sciences solves the environment and extinction**

Killeen 5 (PhD, Director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research (Timothy, 28th April 2005, “Senate Hearing on NASA's Earth Science Program”, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=16382]])
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">It is clear after decades … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ecosystems to simultaneous multiple stresses. </span>__
===__Advantage Four is Solvency__=== 
**The plan establishes a Space Guard built on Civilian SSA – that spills-over to shift functions from other agencies**

Bennett 2k11
(James C. Bennett, Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, the author of The Anglosphere Challenge, has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades “Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space,” pg online @ http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space //ghs-ef)//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">3. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">New responsibilities</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. In addition … its chronic span-of-control issues.</span>//


**And, funding trade-offs make this problem worse**
//McKinley 2k//
//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley (BA, Moorhead State University; MS, Troy State University; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies) is commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron, Peterson AFB, Colorado, which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. Prior to assuming command, she was the deputy director of the commander’s action group at AFSPC. A graduate of Squadron Officer School and Air Command and Staff College, Colonel McKinley has published articles in Aviation Week and Space Technology, Space News, and several symposia proceedings, She has also been a guest lecturer at Air War College and space war games. “Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” Aerospace Power Journal - Spring 2000, pg online @ [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm]] </span>//ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Funding Tensions </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This cultural stress … portion of its current responsibilities</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

=Negative=