= = 
=1AC Wake= 
=1AC Inherency= 
The United States federal government should fully fund the Constellation program.

Obama’s space policy fails – decentralizing NASA focus ensures future policy failure and destroys our space leadership
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sterner 10</span> (Eric R., national security and aerospace consultant, he has held senior Congressional staff positions as the lead Professional Staff Member for defense policy on the House Armed Services Committee and as Professional Staff Member and Staff Director for the House Science Committee’s Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, April, “Worthy of a Great Nation? NASA’s Change of Strategic Direction,” <span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/797.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Every few years ...</span> <span style="background-color: yellow;">Leadership requires the reverse</span>.

Status quo fails – Government action is key to space leadership program success – private industry needs government demonstration
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Handlin 10</span> (Daniel, Student and space writer, with help from Bob Mahoney, former spaceflight instructor at Johnson Space Center and now a space consultant, May 3, “Looking for a Silver Bullet,”<span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1619/1]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But ultimately, and most importantly, ... </span>on a long downhill slide to mediocrity<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>


=1AC Leadership= 

Tensions with china high now – mistrust due to the wolf clause
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Young 11</span> (Connie, Staff Writer for CBS News, July 7, 2011, “Can U.S. afford to snub China in space quest?<span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-503543_162-20077462-503543.html]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Banned from covering the launch, ... considered in the late summer and early autumn.</span>

China will eventually balance against the US which will trigger an arms race and war – a new multilateral framework is the only way to prevent conflicts
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Oh 11</span> (Paul S. Major, United States Army, Master’s Thesis, approved by the director of the School of Advanced Military Studies, 2/10/11 “Assessing Chinese Intentions for the Military Use of the Space Domain,”<span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA544908&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This monograph has provided an ... between the United States and China.</span>

Abandoning Constellation sent an international signal that the US will no longer pursue space leadership – restoration is vital to forging international partnerships
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Newton and Griffin 11</span>– director for Space Policy in the Center for System Studies at the University of Alabama in Huntsville, former strategist at NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, AND **physicist & space engineer, former Administrator of NASA, eminent scholar and professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at the University of Alabama in Huntsville (Elizabeth and Michael, Space Policy, “United States space policy and international partnership” ScienceDirect)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. Will the USA have more influence ... but it makes poor policy.</span>

The plan increases human spaceflight leadership which is key to promote international partnerships between the US and China, Russia, and India
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mindell et al 8</span> (David A., directs the Space, Policy, and Society Research Group at MIT, Uebelhart, Gerovitch, Hoffman, Lanford, Logsdon, Muir-Harmony, Newman, Newsome, McGlynn, Perry, Siddiqi, Tomlinson, Tylko, Weigel, Young, December 2008, “The Future of Human Spaceﬂight,”<span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://web.mit.edu/mitsps/MITFutureofHumanSpaceflight.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The primary objectives of exploration, national, ... </span>embodies the human drama of exploration

China cooperation prevents crisis escalation, miscalculation and space debris – it also prevents massive overspending in the long-term
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hayes 9</span> (Tracey, Lt Col, USAF, Master’s Thesis, Joint Forces Staff College, 6/12/09, “Proposal for a Cooperative Space Strategy with China,” <span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA530117&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Prevent Crisis Escalation</span>. ... <span style="background-color: yellow;"> weapon systems could be destabilizing</span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Space debris will destroy early warning satellites, resulting in an accidental global nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis, 4</span> <span style="color: black;">– postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, </span><span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">) // DCM</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">This is the second of two scenarios that ... national nuclear forces to operate safely.</span>

Space wars occur through miscalculation and risk extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell, et al 1</span><span style="color: black;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: black;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="background-color: yellow;">A buildup of space weapons might ... plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

Space leadership is explicitly used to facilitate cooperative efforts – it is not perceived as unilateral
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stone 11</span> (Christopher, space policy analyst and strategist, writer for The Space Review, “American leadership in space: leadership through capability,” <span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, let me start by saying that I agree with ...</span> programs and objectives “worthy of a great nation”.

=1AC Industrial base= 
The commercial sector fails – increased costs and delays – empirics prove NASA constraints will hamper development
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Handlin 10</span> (Daniel, Student and space writer, with help from Bob Mahoney, former spaceflight instructor at Johnson Space Center and now a space consultant, May 3, “Looking for a Silver Bullet,”<span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1619/1]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As is the case in many industries, ...</span> schedule, budget, and performance of the final product.

Status quo programmatic and funding uncertainty guarantees collapse of the industrial base – drives away workforce and kills future programs and investment
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Slazer 11</span>(Jim, Vice President, Space Aerospace Industries Association, 5/18/11, “Contributions of Space to National Imperatives” <span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://commerce.senate.gov/public/?a=Files.Serve&File_id=e26b4dcb-ee2c-4ada-95fa-b996c307692Herm]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space programs are essential to our national, ... </span>exploration and innovation or inevitably fall behind.

Commitment to Constellation fixes gap in current human space exploration efforts -- solves industry uncertainty and mission focus – now is key
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maser 11</span> (Jim, Chairman of the Corporate Membership Committee American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and President Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, 3/30/11, “Jim Maser: House of Representatives Testimony” <span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.pw.utc.com/media_center/executive_speeches/jim_maser_03-30-2011.asp]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is true that </span>we face many other significant challenges ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But the clock is ticking.</span>

The Aerospace industry is key to the US economy—millions of jobs, competition, and billions in profits
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ITA 11</span> (International Trade Administration, government agency that provides resources to US companies that compete in the global market, 6/21/2011, <span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://trade.gov/press/press-releases/2011/aerospace-industry-critical-contributor-to-us-economy-062111.asp]]</span>.)

Francisco Sánchez, Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, ... <span style="background-color: yellow;">small and medium-sized firms.</span>

And US economy key to global economy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beams 5</span> (Nick Beams 5/30/2005 – world socialist website “World Economy becoming more dependent on U.S debt” - <span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.wsws.org/articles/2005/may2005/usec-m30.shtml]]</span> - Nick Beams- economic analysis, national secretary of the Socialist Equality Party (Australia) member of the International Editorial Board of the World Socialist Web Site)

The increasing fragility ...dented borrowing” both from foreigners and domestically.

Nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead 9</span> – Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, <span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]</span>

If current market turmoil seriously ... <span style="background-color: yellow;"> we may</span> still <span style="background-color: yellow;">have to fight</span>.


Current US Space objectives are uniquely one sided – plan is key to restore institutional legitimacy in all areas
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Abbey and Lane 9</span> (George Abbey and Neal Lane, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, George Abbey is Baker Botts Senior Fellow in Space Policy at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University. He directs the Space Policy Program, which facilitates discussions on the future of space policy in the United States. From 1995 until 2001, he was Director of the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. He holds the NASA Distinguished Service and the Outstanding Leadership and Exceptional Service Medals. He also served as a member of the Operations Team awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom for their role in the Apollo 13 mission. Neal Lane is the Malcolm Gillis University Professor at Rice University. He also holds appointments as Senior Fellow of the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, where he is engaged in matters of science and technology policy, and in the Department of Physics and Astronomy. Prior to returning to Rice University, he served in the federal government as Assistant to the President for Science and Technology and Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, from August 1998 to January 2001, and as Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) and member (ex officio) of the National Science Board, from October 1993 to August 1998. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and serves as a member of the Academy’s Council. 2009 “United States Space Policy: Challenges and Opportunities Gone Astray”<span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://carnegie.org/fileadmin/Media/Publications/PDF/spaceUS.pdf]]</span>)


In our 2005 paper, we expressed our deep concern ... defend against attacks on U.S. interests.”37

Building hegemony with institutional legitimacy means the world order outlasts US material decline – the alternative is great power conflict
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kromah 9</span> (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, <span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf]]</span>)

I see a <span style="background-color: yellow;">multi-polar world </span>as one being ... <span style="font-size: 6pt;">decline of American predominance in world affairs.” 60</span>

Hegemony through legitimacy solves all global problems – otherwise there’s backlash against exertion of power
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kromah 9</span> (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, <span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf]]</span>)

A final major gain to the United States ... without a broad measure of international security<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>57

=1AC Solvency= 
Constellation is technologically feasible and comparatively more reliable and cheaper than any commercial sector alternative – underfunding was its Achilles heel
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Horowitz 10</span> (Scott, former associate administrator for exploration systems, May 8, 2010, “A Trajectory to Nowhere,” <span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.americaspace.org/?p=7621]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is quite a bit of discourse...</span>the current administration is trying to sell us.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heavy lift decreases costs to one fourth of the status quo – we are building off of existing models – and the plan streamlines engineering and production to ensure plan solvency</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rothschild et al 10</span> (William J. Rothschild- The Boeing Company/Space Exploration, AIAA Member, and Theodore A. Talay- NASA/LARC, Edward M. Henderson-NASA/JSC, AIAA Associate Fellow, April 25-30, 2010, “Deep Space Operations Enabled By A Heavy Lift Launch Vehicle”, AIAA Space Opearations 2010 Conference)


<span style="background-color: white; color: black; font-size: 8pt;">VI. Development and Recurring Costs ... </span><span style="background-color: yellow;">$2,200 per pound</span> <span style="background-color: white; color: black; font-size: 8pt;">($5,000/kg) to low-Earth orbit.</span>

Human development and exploration of the universe is key to uphold humanism- that’s key to maintaining progress and increasing value to life,
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zubrin 94</span>- Robert Zubrin, Former Chairman of the National Space Society, President of the Mars Society (September/October 1994, “The Significance of the Martian Frontier,” <span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.nss.org/settlement/mars/zubrin-frontier.html]]</span>) SP
Western humanist civilization ... children of the old frontier, but Mars will not wait forever.

<span style="background-color: white;">The aff’s humanism is the only way to generate ethics – evolution of humanity as opposed to a K’s entropy is the best way to evaluate life.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coon 11</span> (My name is Carleton Coon. I am the author of these essays, except as otherwise noted, and the owner/manager of this website. I am a retired US diplomat living in Washington Virginia, and in Washington DC. I was born in 1927, graduated from Harvard in 1949 (after serving briefly in the US Army at the end of World War II), and joined the US Foreign Service that same year. 37 years of government service saw me posted in a variety of countries stretching from Morocco to Nepal. From 1981-1984 I was US Ambassador to Nepal. I retired in 1985. After retirement I rediscovered some old interests that I had had little time to pursue during my diplomatic career. Music was one, mostly western classical but also non-western. With the help of rapidly evolving computer programs I composed a number of works, mostly chamber and piano. Meanwhile I renewed an old interest in human evolution, which I had inherited from my anthropologist father, and traveled widely in parts of the world I had not previously visited. I wrote essays on the human condition and several books. My interests increasingly focused on humanism and I became involved with the American Humanist Association. In 2004 I was elected to the AHA Board and shortly afterwards became AHA’s Vice President. I served as VP for five years, then retired (for the second time) and turned to family, writing, and further reflection on the human condition. <span style="color: #333333;">[[@http://www.progressivehumanism.com/progressive-humanism/entropy-and-life/]]</span>


<span style="background-color: white; color: black;">It is based on a simple proposition: ... c</span><span style="background-color: yellow;">onstruct an ethical basis </span>for his life.

=1AC Bronx= 
=1AC Inherency= 
An up-front substantial funding of ORS is necessary for short-term solvency to avoid cost runoffs and delays – the current framework is insufficient
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wilson and Haymond 10</span> (Burke, Colonel, commander, 45th Space Wing and director Eastern Range, Patrick AFB, Florida. He is responsible for the processing and launching of US government and commercial satellites from Cape Canaveral, Jeff, Colonel, vice commander of the Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AF, May 2010, “Operationalizing Small Space: Challenges of Moving from Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation to Operations, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. Recognize an ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure. While the cost goals of ORS seem unobtainable when built upon an operational foundation, the opposite is closer to the truth</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">. Wise early spending to build an operational foundation for ORS will significantly reduce downstream costs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. While prescience of future ORS needs without firm traditional requirements is not a trait highly rewarded by AFSPC programming budget drills, it is nevertheless required; and therefore will likely have to be driven top down. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">We have</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> clearly </span><span class="UnderlineChar">learned from “big space” that</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">lack of resources at the initial stages of space system development and acquisition costs us in spades when we experience mission or acquisition failure</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In a recent small space example, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the ORS-1 satellite build decision was made in July 2008 with funding contingent on Congressional approval for the reprogramming of funds</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Naturally, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">when delays were experienced with the reprogramming, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the program lost momentum and incurred delays</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">When a program is intended to deliver a space capability in less than two years, it is vital that all aspects of the program are “ready to go” at program initiation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 1 2. Identify the processes to apply the “ounce of prevention.” While ORS has blanket waivers from the JCIDS requirements process, some of its supporting architecture pieces do not (such as launch and C2). AFSPC needs to deliberately review all small space processes across the life cycle to determine where the most bang for the buck is in terms of robusting the mission area. Some will require only money but preserve rapid schedule ability (i.e., preparing the infrastructure that ORS can leverage) such as improved logistics processes, expanded up-front launch mission assurance, full acquisition funding at program initiation, and so forth. Other processes may take money and time, such as full blue suit operations. Alternative operational constructs should also be assessed, especially in the area of satellite operations. With the future of satellite operations increasingly migrating from telemetry, tracking, and commanding (TT&C)-type operations to mission planning, perhaps the national and RDT&E model of contractor TT&C with blue-suit mission planning might be the best approach. If an existing process is not clearly providing value, it should be jettisoned. For example, the program executive officer of space waived the requirement to pursue certified earned value management reporting for ORS-1, as the very timelines we intend to support are faster than the certification process required of this financial data. Similarly, much program office and HQ AFSPC time was squandered trying to ascertain exactly which test processes would apply, and whether a test and evaluation master plan was required. The initial default answer across the major command and center functions seems to be that unless told otherwise, standard Air Force processes must apply. We must do a focused review on all AFSPC functional processes to determine which are absolutely essential to apply to ORS missions—with the burden of proof on the functional to demonstrate why their process is necessary. 3. Build an ORS sandbox. Nevertheless, we will undoubtedly find that many of the functions needed for big space are still required for small space, but they do not necessarily need to be done in the same order. In fact, many must be done in advance to be able to meet the timelines required. For instance, we must have the tasking, processing, exploitation, and dissemination (TPED) architecture in place for future versions of ORS-1. We must have frequency approval pre-approved for space downlinks. We must have satellites that fly on MMSOC. We must build an ORS box that bounds the requirements in advance to speed approval; if an ORS mission requirement comes through which fits in that box, it is ready to go. A key part of the ORS architecture is defining the standards that future responsive space systems must comply with; space common data link and MMSOC are only two parts of the standard architecture that are coming online now. We must continue with plug and play satellite buses and payloads. The tasking system for ORS-1, VMOC, must be leveraged for tasking other ORS missions beyond infrared imaging. 4. Leverage the broader space enterprise. Interestingly, the 1990s “gray” space category forced unprecedented cooperation between two historically separate space development processes (NRO and AFSPC). 2 Close collaboration between acquisition and operations is likewise essential to ensure the up-front integration is successful. With the ORS-1 satellite, 1 st Space Operations Squadron (1 SOPS) operators work closely with both the Space Test Squadron RDT&E satellite operators, as well as the Responsive Space Squadron acquisition arm to ensure that once on orbit, 1 SOPS will be ready. The collaboration required is not just within AFSPC or even the Air Force; we must also successfully integrate our programs with a TPED architecture that includes both Army and Navy capabilities. This means we need to learn how to test across an integrated, joint system. Our culture must embrace being part of a broader mission area; too often each organization focuses on what they do as “the mission,” to the detriment of the broader collaboration needed for small space and ORS. Further, the resource constrained environment we face necessitates collaboration since no organization will have the resources to bring it all together. Within the specifics of the acquisition piece, for example, we are looking at how to transition from the ORS “jump ball” approach of picking a single agency to execute an urgent need, to an “all star” team where the Air Force may execute the majority of the effort, but will supplement with key external partners for a joint team. Small space capabilities and ORS requirements are blurring the line between operational and RDT&E satellites. Small space technologies and budget realities will only accelerate this trend. ORS-1 is a critical satellite to meet COCOM requirements, but perhaps its most important function is to highlight the limitations in our current processes. By bringing to the forefront the functional requirements that drive cost and schedule, we may carefully consider the cost/benefit tradeoff of current operational and acquisition processes. Further, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">ORS-1 is reliant upon a small space architecture that must be robust enough to support operational missions</span><span class="UnderlineChar">. The ORS Office ultimately hopes to have enough capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “in the barn” </span><span class="UnderlineChar">that they can take increased risk and avoid the increased robustness that this paper argues is necessary</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, driving down both cost and schedule. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">That may be the case in some end-state</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">that is not the state we find ourselves in today and in the near future. To the extent ORS is successful in the near term, it will provide capabilities that are few in number but critically important.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the end, some operational robustness must be relaxed, and some RDT&E processes must be strengthened. May we have the wisdom to determine the right balance. </span>

=1AC Deterrence= 

Current US satellite vulnerability undercuts deterrence and makes a space attack inevitable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman 10</span> (James, Air Force Colonel, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese ground-based, direct-ascent anti-satellite (ASAT) kinetic-kill interceptor against one of their own defunct weather satellites generated considerable angst across the United States space community. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The 2007 test demonstrated that </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the importance of space capabilities is also their Achilles heel</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, that is</span><span class="UnderlineChar">, their deadly weakness in spite of overall strength; it is far too easy to neutralize space systems and their power</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In the broad strategic context, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">space capabilities have their own set of unique, inherent vulnerabilities, which are largely the result of orbital mechanics</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">This invites destruction, damage, and even just mischief delivered by even the least significant adversary.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> However, other nations may seek to deny U.S. advantages in space through a variety of negation and prevention actions. Negation Threats Satellite systems consist not only of spacecraft, each with their own payload and bus, but also a supporting infrastructure—ground control stations, tracking and control links, commonly referred to as the tracking, telemetry, and control (TT&C) links, data links, launch facilities, and an industrial base. Each of these components is at risk to threats of physical and cyber attack, and sabotage, and can be negated, simultaneously or each in detail. The satellite payload, bus, links, and infrastructure can be negated by using a variety of permanent or reversible means to achieve one of the five possible effects, known as the ‘‘five Ds’’—deception, disruption, denial, degradation, and destruction.5 </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Space-based threats proliferate as a result of the ever-growing global availability of technology and access to the space domain</span><span class="UnderlineChar">. There are huge incentives for states to invest in and use space</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the spread of space technologies has occurred</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. States with sufficient resources can now reach out to space and ‘‘touch’’ satellites through a variety of means, and achieve one and even more of the five Ds. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Spacecraft are vulnerable to direct ascent weapons as demonstrated by the Chinese ASAT test, and to a variety of other groundbased, airborne, and space-based ASAT technologies. Direct-ascent launched, or orbit-based nuclear devices, can be detonated, generating radiation and other lethal effects to destroy unshielded electronics over a wide lethal range</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Co-orbital ASATs could be employed, comparable to the old Soviet system that was tested extensively in the 1970s and early 80s. In a less likely scenario, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">space-borne mines can also be deployed in close proximity to spacecraft, or exploded to generate debris clouds that destructively engage whole classes of satellites in the same orbital plane or in crossing orbits.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ground, space-based, or airborne lasers could be used by adversaries to wreak havoc. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Blinding operations could be executed and inflict effects ranging from temporary ‘‘dazzling’’ to permanent burnout of optical or other sensors with intense energy bursts. Ground systems, supporting communications</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and their nodes, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">are vulnerable to diverse land, sea, or air kinetic attacks, including sabotage.</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Unprotected systems are also susceptible to electronic attack through jamming and electromagnetic deception techniques.</span><span class="UnderlineChar">Jammers emit signals that mask or prevent reception of desired signals; these methods can disrupt uplinks, downlinks, and even cross-links</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> By disabling the means of command and control, and data communications, jammers render satellites inoperable or unavailable.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Electromagnetic deception techniques can be employed to confuse systems; this could include sending false, but deceptively plausible, commands that cause spacecraft to perform damaging or wasteful maneuvers, modify databases or execute configuration changes, or otherwise destroy it. Similarly, supporting terrestrial ground stations, computer networks, and links are vulnerable to information operation and cyber attacks. These attacks could involve directing global denial of service tasks, injecting fake commands, malicious software and viruses into the space system, performing unauthorized monitoring and disclosure of sensitive information (data interception), and causing unauthorized modification or deliberate corruption of network information, services, and databases. In sum, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">there is a wide span of kinetic and other types of attacks an adversary could consider and employ</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. There is potential that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">even non-state actors can access some of these technologies and space systems,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and achieve several of the five Ds; however, it is unlikely they can obtain and then employ a full-spectrum of these means and achieve all of these effects. Conducting an attack within the space domain involves a rather substantial investment to develop, acquire, operate, and sustain needed shooter, sensor, and command and control systems. Given the scope and commitment needed to affect such a move, an on-orbit attack would probably be made only in the context of a larger strategic struggle, perhaps as a prelude to or part of early combat operations. On the other hand, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">inexpensive jamming technology is available to even the poorest potential adversaries</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As such, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">jamming poses the most used and growing threat to space systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Some argue that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">jamming also carries with it implicit political and legal sanctions since no major space power has moved to ban or make even temporary and reversible jamming illegal</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This may change now that a number of nations have banned together to object to recent Iranian satellite jamming.6 Cyber adversaries and criminals are also beginning to hone their craft. They present an evolving threat to space systems; and like jamming, cyber threats can be developed and deployed for only modest investments. Prevention Threats Prevention actions generally involve economic, political, informational, and diplomatic instruments of national power. For example, an extremely large creditor nation could employ its considerable economic clout and leverage in an attempt to compel or blackmail the United States to not license or permit imaging of its territory, preventing its use, and reducing its exposure to such observation. The creditor nation could seek to accomplish its objective by destabilizing the world market place. It could refuse to purchase treasury offerings that underpin the burgeoning U.S. fiscal and trade deficits, perhaps arguing that remote sensing, especially commercial remote sensing, of its territory infringes on its territorial and sovereign rights, or that it constitutes ‘‘unlawful’’ industrial espionage, and is thus, an unfair trade practice.7 Commercial remote sensing systems are nowan important resource for the United States Government and its national security needs. U.S. Government orders help sustain and stabilize the remote sensing industry,8 and any limitations on activities, whether for U.S. Government customers or commercial ones, imposed in response to external economic threats could evolve to cause problems. In an alternative scenario, a state, acting through political allies and proxies, could exert considerable influence and dominance to affect a change in U.S. law. This change could restrict licensing of commercial remote sensing imagery, restricting the market place and impacting business models for producers.9 As a diplomatic prevention example, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">adversaries could attempt to use international forums and treaties to deny frequency rights needed by U.S. military or intelligence satellites by making spurious ‘‘paper satellite’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">’ filings with the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). ‘‘Paper satellites’’ involve ITU applications for satellite orbital slots, many for ‘‘speculative’’ systems that will never leave Earth. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">These filings can block access to scarce spectrum and orbital resources</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.10 The ability to place communications and other satellites in geosynchronous orbit (GEO) positions could be held at risk. Some characterize some of these types of actions as a form of ‘‘lawfare.’’ ‘‘The term lawfare describes the growing use of international law claims, usually factually or legally meritless, as a tool of war. The goal is to gain a moral advantage over your enemy in the court of world opinion, and potentially a legal advantage in national and international tribunals.’’11 </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Prevention actions taken to hobble U.S. space systems are not armed attacks</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As is discussed later, the use of force is only authorized under the United Nations (UN) Charter in response to an armed attack, or upon authorization of the UN Security Council. As such, using armed force to deter and defeat prevention actions involving political or diplomatic subterfuge or intrigue may be unlawful under international law. Creative alternative solutions must therefore be found to assure access to space when facing these types of threats. Implications for U.S. Space Strategy </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The wide span of threats poses profound implications for U.S. space strategy and its execution</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. First, unlike the Cold War era, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the United States now confronts a wide array of global actors</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, all operating with different motivations and incentives, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">some of which could become potential adversaries who can attack or threaten space capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">These state and non-state adversaries exhibit a wide array of political, economic, technical, and social differences</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">. Having many potential adversaries makes each of them harder to understand.</span><span class="UnderlineChar">This complicates efforts to understand motivations and to influence perceptions for deterrence purposes.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These differences, in turn, increase the likelihood of misperception, undercutting strategies to protect access to space capabilities. When one’s attention is divided, deterrent measures that are appropriate for one target may not be useful, or even counterproductive, for another. This requires tailored intelligence efforts, information operations, and transparency efforts in order to avoid or minimize disputes and prevent problems. Second, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the broad array of adversaries exhibit widely varying risk-taking behaviors</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Risk-taking behavior can strongly influence an adversary’s perception of a situation.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Understanding this phenomenon can lead to better ways of influencing those perceptions. Unfortunately, p</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">otential adversaries may not care that space systems offer tremendous value and capabilities to all nations, or care whether conflict in space could create space debris that could cost all nations access to the domain.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> A strategy to assure continuing access to space assets must therefore be sufficiently flexible to address both risk-averse and risk-taking adversaries. Indeed, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">potential adversaries may shift from risk-taking to risk-adverse over a relatively short period of time.China</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> may fit in this category. Within a decade or two, it </span><span class="UnderlineChar">will have its own extensive space-based communications, navigation, and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance satellite constellations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, all of which will be integrated into its military operations. No doubt, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">China will embrace that evolution and become very reliant on space capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; this will shift it from an asymmetric competitor to one similar to the United States or Russia. Third, with </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the demise of the Soviet Union, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">some</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> political commentators and critics described the United States as a ‘‘hyperpower’’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not just a ‘‘superpower.’’ 12 </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Though buffeted by recent events involving Iraq, Afghanistan, the Global War on Terror, and the 2008 global financial meltdown, U.S. military supremacy continues. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">But, that supremacy does not make or guarantee a successful space strategy. Adversaries may believe they have a higher stake than the United States in the outcome of a particular crisis or conflict. Alternatively, the United States stake in the crisis may not be commensurate with the possible cost of involvement by the United States military and the rest of its national security apparatus. The first alternative may encourage mischief by adversaries; the second discourages U.S. action. As a result, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">adversaries may find threats of U.S. action in response to hostile acts affecting U.S. access to space systems to be non-credible. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fourth, while </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the United States</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has produced superlative space capabilities, it </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">has not produced enough systems ready to survive the new kinetic, exotic, jamming, and cyber threat environment.</span><span class="UnderlineChar">The vulnerability exists because the spacecraft developed and deployed today are in many ways the same as those originally fielded during the Cold War</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. During that epic struggle, there was a tacit and then explicit understanding that each superpower would not attack and overwhelm the other’s space systems, except in the direst of circumstances, perhaps during the throes of a nuclear conflagration. Indeed, a number of agreements between the superpowers adopted the understanding and ruled out interference with national technical means, including space assets. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">This belief in the superiority of space systems and power blinds the United States to the inherent strategic weaknesses and vulnerabilities in these systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This, predictably, can now be exploited by potential adversaries, such as China, who, with their recent ASAT test, appear more willing to fully explore the technologies needed to expand the limits of conventional war to include the space domain. Consequently, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">by historically and diplomatically reducing the threat, engineering of some satellite threat detection, attack avoidance, and other defense subsystems have not matured enough so that they are sophisticated, nimble, and robust enough to counter new </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">21st Century</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> adversary attack capabilities.</span>

The PLA is gearing up for conflict in space – their doctrine proves
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wortzel 8</span> (Larry, Retired, Colonel, United States Army, “The Chinese People’s Liberation Army and Space Warfare,” Astropolitics, 6:112–137, Ebsco Political Science)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The PLA Considers Tools of Space Warfare </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The PLA is exploring a variety of space weapons through theoretical, basic, and applied research</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[78] </span><span class="UnderlineChar">These include</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">:[79] </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">satellite jamming</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> technology </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">collisions between space bodieskinetic energy weaponsspace-to-ground attack weaponsspace planes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that can transit and fight "up or down" in the upper atmosphere </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">or space high-power laser weapons high-power microwave weapon systems particle beam weapons electromagnetic pulse</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> PLA authors credit the United States with having the most advanced capabilities in the areas of kinetic energy weapons, particle beam weapons, and directed energy in general. However, the PLA does well at various forms of jamming and has done a lot of work on the concept of colliding space bodies. The dilemma here for the military theorists and planners in the United States is that this is really space science and rocket science. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Although Chinese military theory and basic and applied research into these areas are transparent, the weapons systems that may emerge as formal programs are not. It is not clear to theorists and policymakers whether current science will support many of these space war systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Therefore, the United States must apply resources toward engaging people with scientific, mathematical, and engineering backgrounds in intelligence research and analysis on China. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The PLA is serious about space warfare</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Moreover, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the destruction of its own weather satellite and the blinding of a U.S. satellite mean it is achieving some success</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In general, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">PLA theorists think internal lines of communication and support are most favorable for successful military operations, whether offensive, defensive, or logistical</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[80] They see internal lines as superior to external ones.[81] Thus, th</span><span class="UnderlineChar">ey see their regional position in Asia as superior to that of the United States because the latter has to fight, communicate, and resupply along extended external lines,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> while China enjoys internal lines of communication within the range of its aircraft, missiles, and submarine fleet. This means that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">in a conflict, they would probably use their jamming and anti-satellite systems to disrupt American lines of communication, command and control, situational awareness, and efforts at military coordination</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. One of the most disruptive things the PLA could do would be to neutralize the U.S. ability to use tracking and data relay satellites, which provide global, real-time sensor and communications capabilities for networked operations. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The PLA believes that the United States is heavily dependent on its satellite systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">--at least, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">more dependent than the PLA is on its own</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But </span><span class="UnderlineChar">that is changing. As the PLA modernizes its own command</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C4ISR) systems, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">it is becoming as dependent on space and information systems as the United States already is.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Therefore, its policies of space control and space deterrence for military purposes are no longer forms of asymmetric warfare. Rather, the contest will be over which force can most effectively disrupt the other's military operations. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Space warfare may well become an integral part of traditional conflict</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The Implications of Attacks on Reconnaissance Satellites One question that begs an answer is whether the PLA is considering the implications of exercising the capabilities it is developing--that is, when researchers consider a form of space warfare, or develop capabilities to be applied in space weapons, are there also PLA officers in the policy or planning spheres thinking through the implications of employing that capability? If not, an incident could quickly escalate and get out of control, leading to an exchange of fire or a deeper crisis. For example</span><span class="UnderlineChar">, four officers from the PLA's Second Artillery Command College have published an analysis of how to jam or destroy the space-based ballistic missile advanced warning systems of the United States</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[82] In their article, the officers note, "</span><span class="UnderlineChar">a space-borne missile early warning system will play a pivotal role in future space wars</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">."[83] </span><span class="UnderlineChar">They set out the capabilities and parameters of the U.S.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Defense Support Program (DSP) </span><span class="UnderlineChar">early-warning satellites, including</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the geosynchronous orbits of the satellite sets, their axis of look, the infrared bands they cover, and their shortcomings. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The authors discuss how to destroy the DSP satellites with other satellites, ground-based lasers, or direct ascent weapons</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[84</span><span class="UnderlineChar">] They also discuss how to jam the satellites and their satellite-to-ground transmissions and how to camouflage the infrared radiation emitted by a missile to make it more difficult for the warning satellite to detect an attack</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[85] In their conclusion, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the authors find that maintaining a strategic ballistic missile capability is a powerful deterrent to prevent the United States from launching a large-scale military attack or intervention aimed at</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> China's own military operations on its southeast coast (say, to intervene in potential Chinese </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">military operations against Taiwan</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">).[86] Their view is that "</span><span class="UnderlineChar">destroying and jamming space-borne missile early warning systems not only can paralyze such anti-missile systems, but also will help [the PRC] win the war in space</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">."[87] The problem in this reasoning is that there is no consideration of a likely American reaction to the disruption of its missile early warning systems. One possible reaction by the United States is that it might well think it is coming under immediate attack and launch its own strike against China's strategic missile forces. Another reasonable--and perhaps equally escalatory--reaction by U.S. forces might be to strike the source of the Chinese attack, particularly if it came from a ground-based laser or direct ascent launch. Thus, even if such a reaction by the United States would use conventional weapons, the PLA may find it had created a deeper crisis leading to an American strike on Chinese soil. These four PLA authors do not seem to have considered the ramifications of their own research. Space Deterrence Space power theorists like Cai Fengzhen advocate the ability to control parts of space for limited periods. Huang Zhicheng, in reaction to the U.S. Air Force Space Command manual section AFM 2-2.1 on space warfare and countermeasures, develops the concept further, advocating a regime of "space deterrence" to counter American "space superiority."[88] For Huang, this shift toward "space deterrence" mirrors a trend in U.S. space theory.[89] Huang defines this as "the use of strong aerospace power to create or demonstrate a threat to an opponent's space power to deter that opponent in a practical way."[90] </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The goal of this deterrence is to increase the PLA's power in weapons systems, information gathering, and command and control to improve national warning systems in China, create fear in an adversary, and degrade the adversary's power</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[91] The key to achieving this level of deterrence, according to Huang, is to concentrate one's own economic, military, and science and technology power to "ruin an opponent's economy and ability to function in space."[92] The intention behind the December 2006 blinding of a U.S. satellite by a Chinese laser and the January 11, 2007, destruction of a Chinese weather satellite by the PLA's own direct ascent vehicle is clear when interpreted as "space deterrence."[93</span><span class="UnderlineChar">] For a deterrent to be credible, one must demonstrate the capability to carry it out.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It is also important to note that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Huang's vision of effective space deterrence includes crippling attacks on information networks and C4ISR systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In the future, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">we may see other examples of "space deterrence" intended to let the United States and other countries know that they do not have free reign in space or over China. We may see the PLA demonstrate various forms of jamming</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In doing so, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the PLA would conduct operational tests of the work being done on jamming synthetic aperture radar satellites. Much of the work in Chinese journals discusses maneuvering space bodies to intersect in orbit. This type of maneuvering lends itself to "accidental" collisions between space bodies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. China could then deny the hostile intent of such accidents, but they would still have a "space deterrent" capability. Conclusions </span><span class="UnderlineChar">In the event of conflict with China, we can expect to see military operations carried out across all the domains of war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: land, sea, air, space, and the electromagnetic spectrum (that is, information warfare and cyber-warfare). Any military operations in space will be part of a more coordinated attack on an enemy's knowledge and command systems. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">There will probably be a strategic warning, even if there is operational or tactical surprise</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">--that is, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the PLA and the Chinese Central Military Commission will likely justify any of its actions in advance by conducting what it calls "legal warfare</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The PLA will seek to exercise "space control" in a limited area of conflict</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and it will probably observe the internationally accepted definitions of "commons" in space (above the Kármán line) in peacetime and during periods of tension. If conflict breaks out, however, altitude limits on space control will be off, and any systems carrying adversaries' military traffic or signals will probably be fair game for the PLA. The PRC's foreign ministry, security services, Communist Party liaison department, and </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the PLA will likely exploit political divisions in the United States over nuclear testing and space-based weapon systems by applying the concept of "legal warfare</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." U.S. Secretary of the Navy Donald Winter, on a visit to Australia in August, said that the United States still wants to "understand what the Chinese intention is" in its military modernization.[94] This concern over how China will engage in military operations in space is really about intentions. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Many of China's activities and policy positions make it hard to interpret Beijing's intent</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Among these are: </span><span class="UnderlineChar">China's expansive territorial claims, combined with periodic incidents of the use of force to reinforce these claims</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[95] </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the justification for extending the territorial claims of China into the reaches of outer space,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as outlined in this paper th</span><span class="UnderlineChar">e shaping of the "space battlefield" with legal arguments that would justify China's actions to prevent space observation over its territor</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">y The United States has taken a course with China far different from the isolationist and confrontational approach it took with the Soviet Union. The United States is heavily involved in trade and economic and political engagement with China. Nonetheless, each country is wary of the potential for conflict with the other, and they have some fundamental differences of national interest. Whether one is a proponent of arms control agreements or not, the dialogue between the United States and the Soviet Union over arms control and treaties produced a body of mutual understanding that holds up today. Both countries seemed to realize that it is potentially destabilizing to define the upper limits of sovereignty. Thus, neither country interfered with the other's free passage in space. Both countries also agreed that the ability to conduct strategic verification from space stabilized the nuclear balance. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">No </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">such</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> dialogue has taken place with China</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Indeed, th</span><span class="UnderlineChar">e PLA has either ignored or rebuffed American efforts at such a dialogue. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Often, senior military or Communist Party leaders have told Americans that to engage in such a dialogue is an example of a "cold war mentality."[96] I believe that discussions on these issues will help clarify the rationale for U.S. space policy and help reduce the threat of space warfare. Although we do not know China's intentions, we can infer them from Beijing's actions--the attack on a U.S. satellite with a laser and the destruction of its own weather satellite as a demonstration of capability. We can also infer Beijing's intentions from a judicious review of its military literature. By observing the military capabilities China is acquiring and reading its literature, we know that China's leaders are preparing as though they might have to fight the United States. Furthermore</span><span class="UnderlineChar">, the PLA is busily preparing the "space battlefield" in advance with legal arguments, just as called for in its doctrine</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. There are thus sound reasons to prepare to defend American interests in space, to engage in mutual threat reduction measures, and to pursue programs that will ensure that the U.S. military will have access to space--and space-based logistical support--in any future conflict.</span>

Chinese governmental structure makes crisis escalation uniquely high—kills power projection
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 11</span> (Bruce, Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One characteristic of too many wars in the last century is that they are the result of miscalculation that ignites the tinder of fundamental geopolitical tensions. Averting major power conflict requires skillful management of tensions by senior leaders of the major powers. China has become much more internationally sophisticated, though with important exceptions, in its dealings with the rest of the world than has been true in the past, and this is reflected in its civilian leadership. Unfortunately, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the PLA's senior officer corps</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">trails its civilian counterparts in this respect. They hav</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">e much less interaction with foreign official and travel abroad much less frequently than their U.S. counterparts. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This means that </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the PLA overall views world events from a less knowledgeable and sophisticated perspective, a danger in this increasingly complex world,</span><span class="UnderlineChar">and could explain</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for example, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the political "tonedeafness" of the PLA in the manner they conducted their 2007 ASAT test</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">This PLA problem becomes more serious when one realizes that </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the PLA is organizationally separate from the rest of the Chinese government,</span><span class="UnderlineChar">and reports only to the Central Military Commission, currently chaired by President</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Hu </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Jintao</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. President </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Hu, and his likely successors, have no significant military background,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the majority of the CMC's members are top PLA officers, suggesting that civilian oversight of major military decisions and consideration of their larger implications are not as carefully reviewed as in the U.S. government. Normally this would not be too great a concern, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">but in a crisis this could be dangerous.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Add to this the fact that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">China has no equivalent of our National Security Council, a critically important body for coordinating our security decisionmaking,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and one comes away concerned about the relative insularity of the PLA in the Chinese power structure. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">In a crisis, the PLA probably cannot be counted on to show as sophisticated a sense of judgment as one would hope any country's military leaders,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> even an enemy's, to show. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">All these problems and many more pose potential threats to internal political stability and Communist Party control</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, providing ample opportunity for crisis and conflict in the years ahead. Overview of The Strategic Landscape of Space </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Space assets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and the communications and cyber links that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">enable</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> them to function, are the means by which essential national security information is either generated, transmitted, or both. This information is the lifeblood of </span><span class="UnderlineChar">U.S. conventional military superiority</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and plays a key role in U.S. strategic nuclear posture as well. As such, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">these space related assets represent extraordinarily appealing targets in any future conflict</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">and their relative vulnerability can provide dangerously attractive incentives in a crisis to preempt, escalating to war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Resisting this temptation to attack may be morally virtuous but could be strategically unwise: going first in a space conflict with a nearpeer space adversary appears to offer many advantages, while absorbing such a strike, with all its attendant destruction of military capabilities, and then responding to the attack against an opponent fully expecting such a response, appears to be militarily and strategically quite undesirable. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">As technology advances, the ways of interfering with, disrupting, or destroying information streams in space or supporting space systems will likely increase</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as will U.S. and others' dependence upon such systems. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Providing defensive options for U.S. space assets should be pursued where appropriate</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but most space observers believe that offense has the advantage in space over defense, as General Cartwright observed last May. Cartwright also noted that the challenging issues that space poses has made the Space Posture Review "the most difficult of all the defense reviews" the Obama Administration has undertaken. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The overall U.S. goal in space should be to shape the space domain to the advantage of the United States and its allies, and to do so in ways that are stabilizing and enhance U.S. and allied security</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The United States has an overriding interest in maintaining the safety, survival, and function of its space assets so that the profound military, civilian, and commercial benefits they enable can continue to be available to the United States and its allies. This need not mean that China and others must perforce be disadvantaged by such an arrangement - there should be ample opportunity for many countries to benefit and prosper from a properly crafted system of space management. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">There is an inherent risk of strategic instability when relatively modest defense efforts create disproportionate danger to an adversary, as with space offense. And there is a serious risk of crisis instability in space when "going first" pays off - destroying an adversary's satellites before he destroys yours.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We don't know what would happen in a crisis, but the potential for space instability seems high and likely to grow.</span>

Chinese counterspace and military strategy is focused on quick, pre-emptive strikes which increases the risk of conflict – statements prove
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Putman 9</span> (Christopher, Major, USAF, Master’s thesis, September 2009, “COUNTERING THE CHINESE THREAT TO LOW EARTH ORBIT SATELLITES: BUILDING A DEFENSIVE SPACE STRATEGY,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While China does not publish an overarching stated grand strategy equivalent to the US National Security Strategy, National Defense Strategy, or National Military Strategy, analysts theorize that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">China's strategic modernization is focused on</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> three main objectives: </span><span class="UnderlineChar">regime survival, dominance of the Asia-Pacific Theater while growing its worldwide influence, and prevention of Taiwanese independence</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 2 Across these objectives, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">China sees the United States as its principal strategic adversary and follows a military strategy of anti-access/area denial to prevent increasing US involvement in the Asia-Pacific region</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. China acknowledges that it cannot compete on an equal footing with US military capabilities and so must pursue asymmetric capabilities to counter US force projection in the region. 3 CHINESE COUNTERSPACE STRATEGY Analysis of US military operations since the Persian Gulf War in 1991 identified the high reliance of US forces on satellite systems. </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">China believes that it can deter US participation in a conflict by preemptively attacking satellites</span><span class="UnderlineChar">, thus denying services essential to US force projection</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">. If deterrence fails, these attacks would then significantly diminish military capabilities to the point that conventional Chinese forces would then be on an equal footing with US forces.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 4 Additionally, China believes that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">anti-satellite capabilities provide national prestige and demonstrate the attributes of a world power</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. s Despite the worldwide acknowledgement of China's recent tests, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">China's anti-satellite program can be characterized by a lack of transparency and conflicting public messages</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In the immediate aftermath of the January 2007 test, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Chinese officials provided a mixed public response that was several weeks late, indicating a lack of coordination between the civilian government and the People's Liberation Army who controls the anti-satellite program</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. While </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the civilian government</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> likely approved the program, they probably </span><span class="UnderlineChar">did not fully understand the international implications</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the test. Further, the aggressive anti-satellite program counters China's public calls for a global ban on space weapons. 6 The threshold for Chinese use of anti-satellite weapons is hard to determine with certainty, a</span><span class="UnderlineChar">lthough several Chinese military writers advocate using anti-satellite weapons preemptively to prevent the United States from entering a conflict. Colonel</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Li </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Daguang</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in 2001 ' s Space War </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">states that "the offensive capability in space should, i f necessary, be capable of destroying or temporarily incapacitating all enemy space vehicles that fly above our sovereign territory</span><span class="UnderlineChar">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"? </span><span class="UnderlineChar">This view directly threatens LEO satellites that periodically pass over China and contradicts international law</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> which permits ''unimpeded satellite overflight of other nations through space.,,8 Colonel Li </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Daguang</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> further </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">postulates that development of anti-satellites must be conducted covertly</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: "construction of such a unit [space force] should be carried out secretly by keeping a low profile." Colonel Yuan Zelu argues in 2005' s Space War Campaigns that an e adyus e of anti-satellite weapons may preclude United States action: "[the] goal of a space' shock and awe strike is [deter] the enemy, not to provoke the enemy into combat. For this reason, the </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">objectives selected for strike must be few and precise."</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">10 </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Chinese anti-satellite weapons are not used at the outset of a conflict, they can be quickly negated by US precision strikes against launch sites and command and control centers. Based on the intended use of anti-satellite weapons, the lack of transparency, and Chinese writings, the United States must assume a Chinese anti-satellite strike at the outset of conventional hostilities, rather than being withheld until later</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">and thus must build an effective defensive capability to deter and recover.</span>

That risks miscalc and nuclear escalation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 6</span><span style="color: black;"> – </span>Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">The erosion of the US ability to execute the space threat warning mission has serious implications for US national security to include: the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland; the loss of space capabilities which would degrade US warfighting effectiveness; the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">facilities or services; </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the increased possibility that adversaries could develop new weapons or covertly conduct probing attacks on US space systems; and the lack of a credible means to execute stated US policy in response to an attack against space assets. One of the most serious impacts of the failure to develop or execute a reliable space threat warning and attack verification system is the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on the US homeland or an </span><span class="UnderlineChar">attack that is part of a major regional action by a near-peer adversary such as an attack on Taiwan by the Chinese mainland.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, whose goal was the destruction of the Pacific Fleet, was not done as an isolated act, but as part of the start of a larger campaign to establish a Japanese Pacific sphere of influence which included the forceful acquisition of US territories. At this time, the Pacific Fleet was viewed as a US center of gravity whose destruction would enable Japan to achieve regional domination and discourage future US intervention. Today, our space-based assets may represent the equivalent of the WWII Pacific Fleet. Further, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">other nations have stated they view the US reliance on space as a potential Achilles ’ heel and a center of gravity whose destruction or disruption is critical to future military success against the US</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.44Although a major attack on the US is not likely, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the loss of US space-based early warning capability and ground-based missile warning radars could undermine nuclear deterrence strategy resulting in a devastating miscalculation that the US was vulnerable to a nuclear first strike. The perception that US space capabilities are vulnerable to a surprise attack also weakens conventional deterrence</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In the case of a US-China conflict over Taiwan, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the Chinese might seek to disrupt or destroy regional space capabilities as part of a delaying strategy to deny US forces access to the region until their military operations were well underway, making the Chinese takeover of Taiwan a fait accompli.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">45A successful Pearl Harbor-type attack on US space assets would degrade US fighting effectiveness. Today, space represents the ultimate high ground and it is unlikely that a nation, whose military ambitions might provoke US involvement, will willingly cede that high ground. The level of battlespace awareness space-based platforms provide makes any attack using large massed forces difficult to accomplish. The ability to neutralize these platforms would improve the circumstances required to gain a strategic advantage over US and allied forces. As General Lord stated in his Congressional testimony: “A resourceful enemy will look at our centers of gravity and try to attack them. Our adversaries understand our global dependence on space capabilities, and we must be ready to handle any threat to our space infrastructure.”46 With the increased US reliance on space assets for communication, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR); and command and control of our deployed forces; a successful space attack could significantly delay US response to regional aggression. During Operation IRAQI FREEDOM (OIF), over 60% of theater communications traveled via satellites.47 The Defense Satellite Communication System (DSCS) provided 90% of all protected communications and 70% of all military satellite communications into theater.48 These capabilities significantly enhanced command and control of US and allied forces. Further, the employment of the satellite-based Blue Force Tracker system resulted in an unprecedented level of situational awareness which decreased fratricide and facilitating search and rescue operations and reinforcement operations.49 The United States also maximized the use of the space-based Global Positioning System (GPS) to enable precision weapons delivery, allowing the use of fewer and smaller weapons to achieve effects; to enhance navigation in featureless terrain; and to aid in the location of both friendly and hostile forces.50 General Lord testified to Congress: “</span><span class="UnderlineChar">Space capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are no longer nice to have, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">but are now indispensable to how we fight and win our nation’s wars.”51 The failure to develop a credible space threat warning system increases the likelihood that a foreign nation would attack US space assets</span>__.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The inability to detect and provide timely warning of a space attack could result in the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services. There are a number of scenarios where the timely detection of a threat would allow space operators to intervene, thwarting the attack. In many instances, the ability to find, fix, target and destroy the threat is currently a viable way to counter the attack. However, this is not always possible. In the case of a co-orbital ASAT attack, which involves the launch and maneuver of a satellite into a closing orbit of another satellite to destroy or disrupt it, the countermeasure require a pre-intercept maneuver of the target satellite. The support countermeasures for an attack on space ground facilities include increased physical and information security. Countermeasures for electronic warfare attacks or jamming of the space link segment exist but there is often a significant bandwidth cost when these measures are in effect.52 Degradations to space assets could also occur as a result of unintentional sources such as radio frequency interference or from scientific research such as laser research. In these situations, it is important to locate the source and terminate the activity to prevent loss of the space asset or service. The loss of these capabilities during critical operations could result in operational failure, loss of equipment, resources, and lives. The inability to rapidly neutralize sources of satellite communication (SATCOM) interference also has national security implications. In the area of airpower employment, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">successful SATCOM jamming could disrupt the US ability to command and control air assets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in theater from geographically separated air operations centers. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">A delay of even one to two days might jeopardize US ability to support deployed forces. Satellite communication links to worldwide deployed forces are critical capabilities in protecting US security, sovereignty, and military combat capability. The inability to detect and assess space threats might allow adversaries to develop new weapon systems or conduct probing attacks on US space systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> without our knowledge. Although US surveillance technology and systems are more sophisticated today, the US should not assume it will always be able to detect the development of a new weapon. Our experience in post-WW II with the Germans is one example. After the defeat of Nazi Germany, the US and Russia engaged in a race to uncover Germany’s scientific secrets. Major General Hugh-Knerr, deputy commander of the US Air Forces in Europe wrote: “The occupation of German scientific and industrial establishments has revealed the fact that we have been alarmingly backward in many fields of research.”53 Supersonic rockets, nerve gas, jet aircraft, guided missiles, stealth technology and hardened armor were just some of the technologies developed in WWII German laboratories.54 The Soviet Sputnik launches and the deployment of the FOB system are modern examples of technological surprise.55 Today, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">other nations are working to develop new weapons to counter US dominance and to take the lead in</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> what is termed Fourth Generation Warfare—</span><span class="UnderlineChar">information war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The current </span><span class="UnderlineChar">coverage gaps in our space surveillance network, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">a fragmented intelligence network, a lack of discipline in anomaly reporting, the current inability to rapidly detect an attack on on-orbit systems, and overall erosion over the last decade of the space defense mindset </span><span class="UnderlineChar">makes it more likely an adversary could develop anti-satellite weapons</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">without our knowledge. Finally, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">without a credible space threat warning capability the US will not have the ability to execute stated US policy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to counter an attack against US space assets. In 1999, President Clinton signed into law DoD Directive 3100.10, US Space Policy, which specifically declared an attack on US space systems, to include commercial space systems, an attack on US sovereignty.56 One purposes of this policy is </span><span class="UnderlineChar">to deter an attack on US space assets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. However, the lack of a credible space threat warning system undermines this policy. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">A senior officer in US Strategic Command</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> recently </span><span class="UnderlineChar">stated that a nation or group could likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution.57 </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Global nuclear war</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hunkovic 9</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]]



<span class="UnderlineChar">A war between China, Taiwan and the United States has the potential to escalate into a nuclear conflict and a third world war,</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> therefore, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">many countries other than the primary actors could be affected by such a conflict, including Japan, both Koreas, Russia, Australia, India and Great Britain,</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">if they were drawn into the war, as well as all other countries in the world that participate in the global economy</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">in which the United States and China are the two most dominant members</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">If China were able to successfully annex Taiwan, the possibility exists that </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">they could then plan to attack Japan and begin a policy of aggressive expansionism</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> in East and Southeast Asia, as well as the Pacific and even into India, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">which could in turn create an international standoff and deployment of military forces to contain the threat.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> In any case,</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> if China and the United States engage in a full-scale conflict, there are few countries in the world that will not be economically and/or militarily affected by it</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. However, China, Taiwan and United States are the primary actors in this scenario, whose actions will determine its eventual outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Independently, perceived vulnerability causes the US to preemptively strike china—that escalates</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 7</span> (Ashley, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)



<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Finally, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the growing Chinese capability for space warfare implies that a future conflict in the Taiwan Strait would entail serious deterrence and crisis instabilities. If such a clash were to compel Beijing to attack US space systems at the beginning of a war</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, the very prospect of such a ‘</span><span class="UnderlineChar">space Pearl Harbor’94could</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, in turn, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">provoke the United States to contemplate pre-emptive attacks or horizontal escalation on the Chinese mainland. Such outcomes would be particularly likely in a conflict in the next decade, before Washington has the opportunity to invest fully in redundant space capabilities</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. Already, US Strategic Command officials have publicly signalled that conventionally armed Trident submarine- launched ballistic missiles would be appropriate weapons for executing the prompt strikes that might become necessary in such a contingency.95 </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Such attacks, even if employing only conventional warheads, on space launch sites, sensor nodes and command and control installations on the Chinese mainland could well be perceived as a precursor to an all-out war. It would be difficult for all sides to limit the intensification of such a conflict, even without the added complications of accidents and further misperception</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.96</span>

We’ll provide four interdependent ways to access deterrence and defensive capabilities

The first is space situational awareness -
Enhanced surveillance capability for SSA bolsters deterrence through cooperation- data sharing reduces the risk of attack
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schwartz 10</span> [Norty Schwartz, Chief of Staff of the US Air Force. The senior uniformed Air Force officer responsible for the organization, training and equipping of 680,000 active-duty, Guard, Reserve and civilian forces serving in the United States and overseas, “Space, Cyberspace, and National Security,” Thursday, 18 February 2010, pg. http://www.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-100219-034.pdf//edlee]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To address these challenges, we must continue to focus attention on enhanced space situational awareness. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Our ability to conduct this vital mission not only helps us to characterize threats as either an intentional act by an adversary or the result of electromagnetic radiation, space debris, or any number of other hazards in outer space</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; they also help us to recognize anomalies in our own space constellations and evaluate options for such contingencies. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Our ability to track space objects</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – currently, over 20,000 of them – </span><span class="UnderlineChar">has operational implications uses of space not only for military and civil, but also for the enormously lucrative space system industry</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Including sales of business communications, navigation through Global Positioning System handsets, remote sensing, and digital television and music for tens of millions of consumers, this segment of the industry topped 33 billion dollars of revenue in 2008 – neither a small nor completely mature undertaking at this point. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">To enhance our space situational awareness, we must continue to nurture our resurgence in space intelligence analytical and collection capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This process will take time, as decades of knowledge and experience are imparted from senior analysts to new ones, and new technical ways and means of collection are developed, managed, and implemented. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">This enhanced situational awareness not only will provide our Nation with the ability to evaluate our adversaries’ space orders of battle and clarify our understanding of their intent, but also to detect, mitigate, and otherwise respond to threats to our space assets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Increased space situational awareness capabilities will also bolster our space cooperation with key international partners and allies. Through the sharing of our surveillance data</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for example</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">, we provide mission assurance for our cooperative efforts with enduring international partners. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Also, to maintain our current ability to leverage space, we must continue to nurture and further develop our technological superiority. In all likelihood, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">any sort of “space competition” in the foreseeable future will entail some elements of protecting and preserving our own space-borne capabilities. This demands that we maintain the cutting edge in technology, both from a government perspective, as well as with our industrial base</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For example, it is well-known that our dependency on the Global Positioning System has also created certain vulnerabilities that our adversaries can exploit through jamming and other tactical denial techniques. While we remain unequivocally committed to proper stewardship and use of the world’s unparalleled standard in precision navigation and timing, as well as advancing enhanced capabilities with new GPS Block II-F satellites and next-generation GPS-III concepts, we also recognize the need to be able to continue to operate effectively, through improvement to GPS and other methods, in a denied or degraded localized environment. Future Efforts for National Security Space Current realities continue to suggest the inevitability of contested space. To prepare, we are starting at the very top. Back in December, Secretary Donley ordered a top-down evaluation of our management of military space responsibilities. Since 2001, when the last significant restructuring took place, new legal and regulatory requirements, as well as new agencies and authorities, have affected the structure of roles and responsibilities in our stewardship of national security space. We will ensure that, from the Pentagon to our space wings and centers, the appropriate structures and relationships are present to address the various challenges that I have just discussed, as well as other issues. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Our overall approach for the future must be capabilities-based</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; that is, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">instead of an emphasis solely on protecting satellites, we should also focus on preserving– through appropriate redundancies – the force-enhancing capabilities that our space systems provide</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For example, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">space-based ISR capabilities should at least in part be backed up by other systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In some situations, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">our highly-capable, remotely-piloted systems might be able to provide some compensating capabilities. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">They might not be identical, but we need to think in cross-domain terms when seeking such resilience. Also, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">while we continue to pursue our efforts on Operationally Responsive Space,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to build reliable and responsive operational enablers, and focus them “on timely satisfaction of Joint Force Commanders’ needs</span><span class="UnderlineChar">,” true agile responsiveness should emphasize effectiveness in meeting operational demands, irrespective of whether the solution is space-based or otherwise</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. And, because equipping our satellites with defensive capabilities requires tradeoffs with takeoff weight, fuel capacity, service life, and system utility, we should also take a capabilities-based approach to space defense. Protecting spacecraft certainly is a consideration, and in some cases may be the best approach, but we must first emphasize protecting capabilities. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">If a defensible posture can be achieved not only by hardening and improving maneuverability of large,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> complex </span><span class="UnderlineChar">satellites, but also by smaller, simpler satellites, then we might emphasize further development of some less exquisite augmentation systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. With flattening budgets and likely declining purchasing power, these sorts of tradeoffs, while difficult, must be considered. Also</span><span class="UnderlineChar">, perhaps some solutions to satellite defensibility can be found in broader efforts to address root causes of potential rivalries in space</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, or in other efforts to deter broader conflict. </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Perhaps through bilateral or multilateral cooperation, we can end up creating disincentives to attacking our shared space capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. These partnerships can be political, financial, material, or all of the above. There are numerous options to be discovered with international engagement and partnerships in space.</span>

The second is rapid augmentation of non-orbit intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance – that decreases launch costs and facilitates redundancy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sejba 10</span> (Lt Col Timothy A., congressional budget liaison officer, budget and appropriations liaison directorate, deputy assistant secretary for budget, Secretary of the Air Force, Pentagon, Washington DC. In this position, he serves as the single liaison on all space, cyber and nuclear matters between the Air Force and Congressional members and staff, May 2010, “Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rapid Augmentation of On-Orbit Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ORS Tier 2): </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The US’ need for information and situational awareness continues to increase through all phases of military operations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as witnessed in the current conflicts in both Iraq and Afghanistan. For example, over the past several years, the Air Force surged unmanned aerial system (UAS) coverage within Iraq and Afghanistan, increasing overhead air persistence and providing near-continuous situational awareness to troops on the ground. Counter to this, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">overhead reconnaissance provided by space has not been this responsive</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The high cost to access space, both in launch vehicles and the exquisite nature of the systems have been contributing factors. This is not to say that satellite reconnaissance has not played a vital role in these conflicts. Nor should it suggest that we abandon these systems for less exquisite, less capable intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) platforms. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Exquisite systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and their capabilities play a key role in our national security, enabling the strategic decision-making of our senior government and military leadership. However, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">due to their low-density nature yet high-demand information services, they provide an attractive target for a future adversary</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> Space-based collection systems deliver key strategic indications and warning of denied areas. Future adversaries will likely seek to deny the US access and visibility of their movement</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, even with the limited persistence provided by our low-density, highdemand space systems. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Early indications and warning, especially of sites known to possess space negation capabilities, will be critical during Phase 0 of joint operations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the shaping phase, as we attempt to prevent or prepare for a conflict. 17 </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The actual denial of space capabilities may serve as the transition trigger to Phase 1 of joint operations, as we struggle to gather information and gain the necessary situational awareness required to define the crisis</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">. The time frame for Phase 1 may be limited, likely occurring over just a few short weeks. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Our ability to observe, orient, decide, and act on the situation could be greatly hampered if early indications and warning is denied during these critical early days of a potential conflict</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This end-state provides great benefit to a potential adversary. Denial of our ISR may occur through several means: Either purposeful, reversible interference such as blinding or a more catastrophic, direct-kinetic attack against an on-orbit system. Regardless of the means, one of the adversary’s goals would be to deny the US full-spectrum electromagnetic “visibility” to denied areas. Yet, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">a credible Tier 2 ORS capability to rapidly access, augment or replace some aspects of ISR would deny this benefit.</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">This sort of rapid capability</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> especially in a small satellite system, will not provide all the exquisite capabilities afforded by our national systems. However, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">if credible,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> it sh</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">ould provide military planners the responsiveness necessary for situational awareness and intelligence to define the crisis, effectively denying the adversary the benefits they desire in the early stages of a conflict</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Further, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">by reducing the cost of Tier 2 launch and space systems </span><span class="UnderlineChar">to just tens of millions of dollars, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">we have the potential to launch numerous ISR systems in a very short period</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In this case </span><span class="UnderlineChar">we quickly move from high-demand, low-density overhead space reconnaissances to a relatively large ISR constellation with high revisit coverage and increased space-based persistence</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In short, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">ORS would provide surge or swarming global coverage, with increased access and revisit to regions of interest</span><span class="UnderlineChar">. While the adversary seeks to limit or deny our access</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">, their actions would instead result in ORS denying these benefits through increased persistence </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">that did not previously exist. If proven credible, both in our ability to rapidly launch and access space, and to provide decision makers useful intelligence of the situation, ORS Tier 2 augmentation of ISR provides a key deterrent against attacks. Tier 1 SSA cooperation and Tier 2 ISR augmentation are just two examples of how ORS could act as a deterrent. Yet, deterrence for space can and should extend beyond the space domain … high altitude, long duration systems, UAS’s, and new aircraft capabilities could be used to augment, or replace on a limited basis, capabilities provided by space. These cross-domain capabilities likely will not enable the same speed, precision, and lethality to military operations afforded by their space-based equivalents. Yet </span><span class="UnderlineChar">they would provide a degree of mission assurance, enabling the US to “fight through” a denied period until full space capabilities could be restored</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In fact</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">, if our adversaries are convinced that the US can “fight through” disruptions in space, deterrence will be enhanced</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 18 Ultimately, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">survivability of space systems to deliver the enabling capabilities currently through space operations is critical to credibly denying benefits to the adversary</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Deterrence is not the sole answer to preventing attacks. Yet, some believe the DoD seeks only to deter, not protect space assets. One such article claims, “Pentagon planners are looking toward deterrence instead of protection to safeguard critical services provided by space assets in times of peace, crisis, and war.” 19 AFSPC and the National Reconnaissance Office have taken initial steps to protect future space systems, with active and passive defenses offering deterrence value as well. 20</span>

The third is redundancy and spreading mission focus between multiple satellites – that lessens the impact of singular missiles and dissuades countries from attacking
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 10</span> (Forrest E., Senior Political Scientist at the RAND Corporation, 2010, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,” http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even </span><span class="UnderlineChar">a multifaceted, punishment-based deterrence strategy may not be sufficiently potent or credible to discourage an adversary facing the prospect of war with the United States</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Therefore, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">a comprehensive U.S. space deterrence strategy should also focus</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> efforts </span><span class="UnderlineChar">on persuading potential adversaries that the probability of obtaining sufficient benefit from attacking space assets would not be high enough to make it worth suffering the inevitable costs of U.S. retribution</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Part of such a strategy would entail perception management</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: he United States should, to the greatest extent possible, conceal vulnerabilities of its space systems and demonstrate the ability to operate effectively without space support. However, perception management can only go so far in the face of observable weaknesses. Therefore, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the strategy should also pursue multiple avenues to make vulnerable U.S. space systems more resilient and defendable, thereby demonstrating tangible capabilities to deny potential adversaries the benefits of attacking in space</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. An added benefit to the United States of incorporating such </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">denial approaches</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the national space deterrence regime is that they </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">would make the services that space systems provide more robust against loss should deterrence fail</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Although satellites are inherently difficult to defend, those who design, procure, and operate space systems should, to the extent feasible and affordable, invest in capabilities to do so. Passive defenses— such as shuttered optics, shields and filters against EMP and RF attack, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">onboard subsystem redundancy, antijam technologies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and so on—</span><span class="UnderlineChar">should be installed on all future high-priority military and intelligence satellites</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and the Department of Defense and Air Force should explore the possibilities of subsidizing some of these capabilities on commercial systems supporting national security missions</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">. Efforts should be made to develop the necessary enhancements to propulsion systems and propellant capacities to improve satellite maneuverability, along with the ability to detect, assess, and respond to threats quickly enough to evade them</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Research should continue in efforts to develop onboard active defenses, and novel approaches, such as microsatellite escorts, should be fully explored. Because </span><span class="UnderlineChar">passive defenses and many active defense systems are not readily observable, they contribute nothing to deterrence unless would-be attackers believe or, at least, suspect that they are in place.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Consequently, as stated earlier, perception management will continue to be an important dimension in the tacit communication between U.S. authorities and prospective attackers. Specific vulnerabilities of U.S. space systems must never be divulged, and </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the resilience of the orbital infrastructure and its defenses should be emphasized wherever plausible</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Nevertheless, it </span><span class="UnderlineChar">is necessary to acknowledge the fiscal and technical constraints on space defense</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, at least for the foreseeable future, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">and remember that potential adversaries are generally aware of those limitations as well</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Therefore, in addition to the foregoing efforts, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the United States should strive to reduce the potential benefits of attacking its space systems by dispersing the capabilities they provide across a larger number of platforms and by placing redundant capabilities on orbit</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Today, m</span><span class="UnderlineChar">any national security space missions are hosted on platforms that support multiple payloads and users.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Similarly, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">some missions, such as imagery collection, require satellites that are large, expensive, and easily detected and tracked</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Both conditions have evolved for sound, practical reasons: he first is the result of efforts to manage the high costs of space lift with maximum economic efficiency, and the second is driven by mission requirements. Nevertheless, they </span><span class="UnderlineChar">both concentrate capabilities into nodes that are lucrative targets of attack, offering substantial payoffs to potential adversaries. A strategy to reduce the benefits of such attacks would be</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, to the extent feasible and affordable, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">to disperse missions onto separate platforms and place redundant capabilities on orbit</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Ideally, new systems would be designed around distributed, multisatellite technologies, such as those used by GPS. 11 </span><span class="UnderlineChar">An added benefit might be to distribute U.S. national security payloads across satellites owned by a range of other nations and business</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> consortia friendly to the United States </span><span class="UnderlineChar">and also engage in datasharing arrangements</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with them. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Creating such “entanglements” would help deter would-be aggressors in several ways. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Not only would </span><span class="UnderlineChar">it reduce the benefit gained in any single attack, it would also increase international support for the United States to punish attackers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (thereby building additional credibility in threats to do so), </span><span class="UnderlineChar">and it would confront prospective attackers with serious risks of horizontal escalation in that attacking a shared “international security space infrastructure” might bring more states into the conflict</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 12 In sum, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">effective dispersal and redundancy would alter an adversary’s cost-benefit calculation, making it less willing to suffer the costs of retribution for an attack that would provide only marginal benefits.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> However, there would be limitations to this approach. Some missions do not lend themselves to multisatellite solutions, and some nations or commercial operators may not want to host U.S. national security payloads on their platforms, thereby making them more attractive targets. The high costs of space lift may make dispersal and redundancy inordinately expensive, and for some missions, multiple small payloads may not provide sufficient capability to substitute for fewer satellites carrying large packages. Another approach to reducing an adversary’s benefits in attacking space systems would be to provide redundant capabilities using terrestrial backups. Indeed, such solutions are currently being pursued. Undersea cables and other terrestrial links already provide reach-back communication from well-established forward areas of operation, although they are vulnerable to sophisticated attackers (or accidents, such as the recent Mediterranean fiber cut). High-altitude lighter-than aircraft and long-endurance unmanned aircraft systems offer possibilities to supplement space-based platforms for some ISR and communication missions. he type of assets currently being developed would not be survivable in areas where an adversary could challenge friendly control of the airspace, but long-endurance aerial surveillance could, to some extent, supplement space capabilities on the periphery of an area of operations, and platforms flown in secure airspace could be used to relay some links inside the battlespace, thereby reducing the payoff an aggressor might yield in attacking satellites supporting parallel missions. Such options merit further exploration and development. Concealment and deception tactics could also add to deterrence by reducing the benefits that a potential aggressor could expect to reap in an attack on U.S. satellites. While secret capabilities contribute nothing to deterrence, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">knowing that the United States has certain capabilities on orbit, but not being able to determine exactly where they are, may contribute a great deal. Even if an adversary thinks it can detect, identify, and track most critical U.S. space assets, concealment and deception tactics create uncertainty, complicating the targeting problem and thereby reducing the probability of success and expected benefit. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Such tactics might work well in conjunction with the multination dispersal approach mentioned earlier, as that would reduce the vulnerability of platforms hosting U.S. payloads. Finally, the United States needs to continue efforts to make its space lift system, as well as its satellite manufacturing capabilities, more responsive in order to demonstrate U.S. capabilities for rapid replenishment. </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Faster replacement of lost satellites means a smaller tactical benefit for an opponent that attacks them</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Because other means of deterrence by denial require technological advances and costly changes or augmentation to the existing orbital infrastructure, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">rapid replenishment and terrestrial backup are probably the best near-term avenues for denying the benefits of an attack on U.S. space assets.</span>

The fourth is hardening – that deters adversaries and prevents attacks even deterrence fails
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Armstrong 10</span>—Major, IDE Student (Mekesha, March, “Strategic Implications of Satellite Constellation Size and Mission Set”, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=11&ved=0CBgQFjAAOAo&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.afresearch.org%2Fskins%2Frims%2Fq_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153%2Fq_act_downloadpaper%2Fq_obj_c2f524ef-9deb-491f-8abf-0ce381d9dc5d%2Fdisplay.aspx%3Frs%3Denginespage&ei=OMQ1TvX1K4nRsgb9t9G5Ag&usg=AFQjCNF1MqKRwuTrfUoH3sEur02-NNNYVw, ZBurdette)

<span class="UnderlineChar">The US’s increasing economic and military reliance on space creates a vulnerability that is an attractive target for foreign adversaries. If enemies employ offensive counterspace operations -</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">operations which are intended to deceive, disrupt, deny, degrade, or destroy US space systems -</span><span class="UnderlineChar">the force multiplication effect US assets provide would be reduced or eliminated</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 25 </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Large complex satellite systems must be protected from enemy offensive counterspace operations,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> while </span><span class="UnderlineChar">small less-expensive satellite systems may be viewed as “expendable” if their numbers mean one inoperable satellite is not a single point of failure for the system</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As most </span><span class="UnderlineChar">current space missions have a </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">small (mission vulnerable</span><span class="UnderlineChar">) constellation of large, complex systems,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> policy supports the need for protection. The recently released National Security Space Policy (NSSS) insists on hardening satellites against kinetic and electronic attack and maintaining redundant satellites ready to launch and rapidly replace those destroyed. 26 As we invest in next generation space capabilities and fill gaps in current capabilities, we will include resilience as a key criterion in evaluating alternative architectures</span><span class="UnderlineChar">. Resilience can be achieved in a variety of wa</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ys, to include costeffective space system protection, cross-domain solutions, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">hosting payloads on a mix of platforms in various orbits, drawing on distributed international and commercial partner capabilities, and developing and maturing responsive space capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. – National Security Space Strategy, Jan 2011 27 </span><span class="UnderlineChar">China has proven that they can shoot down a satellite in orbi</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">t. Experts now believe that this kind of anti-satellite technology is within reach of rogue states or well-funded terrorist groups, using a medium range missile, a college-level team of individuals and some crude, yet effective, technology. 28 </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Kinetic damage to a satellite is not the only threat; electronic attack on the communications and links or targeting/sabotaging ground segments are simple means of disrupting the billion-dollar assets the military heavily depends on</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. While any satellite is vulnerable to a direct-ascent anti-satellite weapon (ASAT) attack, it is costly to install protection measures. For that reason, it was found that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">only some of the national military satellites have built-in security and countermeasures that increase both weight and cost of the program</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 29 Analysts estimate that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">satellite hardening would increase the total system cost by between two and five percent</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">30 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Increased maneuverability (thrusters, etc) may be an effective counter for a direct-ascent anti-satellite weapon. However, the added thrusters and fuel again increases weight and cost. Analysts estimate that to add maneuverability to a satellite system would increase the total system cost by between 10 - 20% depending on the satellite altitude (warning time), nature of the threat, and threat detection efficiency. 31 For single-mission satellites, it may be argued that the short design life doesn’t warrant these increased costs when considered with the probability of anti-satellite kinetic or jamming attack. Instead of hardening, it could be viewed as strategically beneficial to exponentially increase the number of space targets for our enemies that might attack our satellite systems. While the “basic” spacecraft may not be hardened for attack, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">by increasing the number of targets it makes it virtually impossible to fully destroy the mission. If some satellites are lost in an attack</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">, a robust production line is accessible to replace the inexpensive assets.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Subsumptive, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">large constellations of small satellites is an advantageous idea that military doctrine writers and acquirers should begin considering</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Another danger to our spacecraft is the by-product of a high altitude nuclear burst (above 100 km altitude). </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Large quantities of highly radioactive debris</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in the form of expanding plasma that strongly interacts with the Earth's magnetic field, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">can interfere and degrade our space capabilities</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">. Considering the risk of this threat, hardening of a space system is the single most effective survivability measure</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 32 </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The technologies to harden against damage from nuclearweapons effects exists</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, this complex level of hardening is only used for a few large military satellites, such as MILSTAR. M</span><span class="UnderlineChar">ost of the hardening programs are focused on electronic component hardening to protect satellites from natural environment effects.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> However, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">advanced concepts have been proposed for protection against an attack by lasers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If the satellite could be a single point of failure for the mission</span><span class="UnderlineChar">, the US must advance hardening technology to increase satellite survivability against nuclear, high-power microwave, and neutral particle beam weapons</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Satellites are also vulnerable to radiation that is naturally present in the Earth’s Van Allen radiation belts</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Satellite designers must consider radiation hardness of electronic components in the design of satellites so the vehicles can pass through these radiation belts with little to no degradation</span><span class="UnderlineChar">. The radiation dose a satellite receives is dependent on its altitude</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 33 </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Electronic devices must be radiation-hardened to sustain the hostile environment of space. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Once the hardware has been tested successfully, it is considered “space-qualified” and may be used on a military satellite. Radiation hardening is a cost driver as well as a performance killer, since newer Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) products, that are not space-qualified, provide much better processing power than the much older, yet space-qualified, products. 34</span>

Our space assets and increased responsiveness are key to heg and warfighting capabilities
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cambell 10</span> (Kevin, commanding general, US Army Space and Missile Defense Command/Army Forces Strategic Command, May 2010, “The Warfighter's Perspective on Space Support,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Eight plus years of persistent conflict has taught us important lessons. Chief among these is the fact that for the foreseeable future, our soldiers will consistently be involved in full spectrum operations. We anticipate </span><span class="UnderlineChar">our Army forces deploying into austere environments where space must play a foundational role.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This is especially true in early entry operations. Here, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">space support is vital. </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Space enables our ground units to pierce the “fog of war.”</span><span class="UnderlineChar">Space-provided products and services assist our troops in maintaining situational awareness of their position</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the </span><span class="UnderlineChar">position of friendly forces</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">current terrain information, current and projected weather conditions, and enemy locations and capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">all critical requirements when operating in the heart of enemy strongholds. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Freedom of action on today’s battlefield is tied to space-based capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Over the course of the last decade, we have made significant advances in providing space-based products and services to our brigades and battalions. Commanders at this level have space support that far exceeds anything available to their peers during Desert Shield and Desert Storm. Our soldiers tell us; however, that products and services (current satellite imagery and communications) delivered from space-based platforms do not consistently reach our lower echelon units—those closest to the fight. Additionally, many of our adversaries understand our dependencies on space and could take action to disrupt our ability to deliver products and services to those engaged in the fight. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">If our strategic space systems cannot meet the immediate, realtime needs of our forces in contact, and if potential adversaries are focusing on disrupting our space-delivered services and products, then we must find more effective means of delivering products and services to our front-line units. “Big space” may not be the capability of choice</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We may be entering an era where </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">a mix of systems and capabilities is necessary to meet the needs of the warfighter</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a time when </span><span class="UnderlineChar">we must find new ways to ensure information flows to our lower echelon units. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This article discusses why space is important to the soldier, and the capabilities and attributes they need most from space systems. We also describe what US Army Space and Missile Defense Command/Army Forces Strategic Command (USASMDC/ARSTRAT) is doing to explore other means of providing the capabilities and attributes the warfighter needs in order to sustain freedom of action across the battlefield. When the US Army thinks about space, we tend to think about it from the perspective of our operating concept. Army Field Manual 3-0 describes a doctrine wherein commanders execute offensive, defensive, and stability operations simultaneously throughout the Senior Leader Perspective depth of the operational area</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">. We cannot achieve the versatility, agility, lethality, or interoperability required to carry out our doctrine without space capabilities</span><span class="UnderlineChar">. Space-based systems allow us to operate across larger areas with fewer boots on the ground</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Compared to cold war deployment schemes of some 100-square miles, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">today’s brigade combat teams operate within sectors the size of the state of New Jersey</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">. This would not be possible without space support</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In today’s environment, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">our small units must operate independently and semi-autonomously</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. On today’s battlefield, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">it is at the squad, company, and battalion level where wars are won</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Here, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">timely information enables optimal employment of our small units and enables adequate force protection</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. At the small unit level, our space-based services and products do not consistently reach the end user—the commander in contact with the enemy. Our requirements—our </span><span class="UnderlineChar">warfighter’s requirements</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span><span class="UnderlineChar">are demanding when you consider the need for assuredness, persistence, and responsiveness. We are putting our troops in remote locations on terrain where mountains and valleys separate members of the same combat unit</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Under these conditions, t</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">errestrial line-of-sight systems may not give the small unit leaders the situational awareness to operate with relative freedom of action.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Any </span><span class="UnderlineChar">disruption in service exposes our units to greater force protection risks</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If we could bring in the ground commanders, those fighting the fight, and talk about their needs in combat, we doubt if they would be concerned with whether a small or a conventional satellite is used to meet their requirements. We also doubt they would know if a low Earth orbit or a geosynchronous orbit satellite best meets their needs. We do think they would say; </span><span class="UnderlineChar">they need persistent coverage</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—they need to talk to small teams deployed in complex terrain, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">they need information in real time</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—they need lower resolution data in 30 minutes more than they need higher resolution data in three hours. And, they would also tell us </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">their greatest needs are in the forms of communications and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (ISR). So what are the attributes we need in our space systems? O</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">ur troops in combat need assuredness, persistence, and responsiveness.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Assuredness: </span><span class="UnderlineChar">confidence we will get the products and services we need</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Persistence: </span><span class="UnderlineChar">there when needed for as long as needed. Responsiveness: the ability to task an asset in real-time for rapid delivery of information to the troops in contact</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. These attributes would seem inherent in our space systems. However, our architectures, concepts, and perhaps culture interfere with the delivery of products and services from our space-based platforms to the lower echelons. There are many reasons why products and services may not be delivered to the small unit in a timely manner. We recognize that our space assets are strategic in nature. They were designed and fielded to meet the strategic needs of the nation. We are, in effect, attempting to fulfill tactical needs with systems designed to meet strategic requirements. We carefully guard the capabilities and sometimes even the existence of our strategic satellites. Products produced by them are normally classified at a level that may place them out of reach of the commanders at the small unit level. We are not advocating a focus on lower echelons at the expense of other users. Our national space assets have been put in place to meet the strategic needs of our nation. We think it is absolutely critical that we continue to field and operate these very capable space systems. But, we know </span><span class="UnderlineChar">we cannot do it all with large spacecraft,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and we know that “</span><span class="UnderlineChar">big space” is challenged meeting all of our national and strategic requirements.</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">1 We need augmenting systems to meet our warfighting requirements</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Heg solves every scenario for nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 7 -</span><span style="color: black;">senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">This is a good thing, and it should continue to be a primary goal of American foreign policy to perpetuate this relatively benign international configuration of power. The unipolar order with the United States as the predominant power is unavoidably riddled with flaws and contradictions. It inspires fears and jealousies. The United States is not immune to error, like all other nations, and because of its size and importance in the international system those errors are magnified and take on greater significance than the errors of less powerful nations. Compared to the ideal Kantian international order, in which all the world's powers would be peace-loving equals, conducting themselves wisely, prudently, and in strict obeisance to international law,</span>the unipolar system is both dangerous and unjust. Compared to any plausible alternative<span class="UnderlineChar"> in the real world, however, </span>it is relatively stable and less likely to produce a major war between great powers<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> It is also comparatively benevolent, from a liberal perspective, for it is more conducive to the principles of economic and political liberalism that Americans and many others value. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">American predominance</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> does not stand in the way of progress toward a better world, therefore. It </span><span class="UnderlineChar">stands in the way of regression toward a more dangerous world. The choice is not between an American-dominated order and a world that looks like the European Union. The future international order will be shaped by those who have the power to shape it.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> The leaders of a post-American world will not meet in Brussels but in Beijing, Moscow, and Washington. The return of great powers and great games If the world is marked by the persistence of unipolarity, it is nevertheless also being shaped by the reemergence of competitive national ambitions of the kind that have shaped human affairs from time immemorial. During the Cold War, this historical tendency of great powers to jostle with one another for status and influence as well as for wealth and power was largely suppressed by the two superpowers and their rigid bipolar order. Since the end of the Cold War, the United States has not been powerful enough, and probably could never be powerful enough, to suppress by itself the normal ambitions of nations. This does not mean the world has returned to multipolarity, since none of the large powers is in range of competing with the superpower for global influence. Nevertheless, several large powers are now competing for regional predominance, both with the United States and with each other. National ambition drives China's foreign policy today, and although it is tempered by prudence and the desire to appear as unthreatening as possible to the rest of the world</span><span class="UnderlineChar">, the Chinese are powerfully motivated to return their nation to what they regard as its traditional position as the preeminent power in East Asia</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. They do not share a European, postmodern view that power is passé; hence their now two-decades-long military buildup and modernization. Like the Americans, they believe power, including military power, is a good thing to have and that it is better to have more of it than less. Perhaps more significant is the Chinese perception, also shared by Americans, that status and honor, and not just wealth and security, are important for a nation. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Japan</span>__<span style="color: black;">,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> meanwhile, which in the past could have been counted as an aspiring postmodern power -- with its pacifist constitution and low defense spending -- </span><span class="UnderlineChar">now appears embarked on a more traditional national course. Partly this is in reaction to the rising power of China and concerns about North Korea 's nuclear weapo</span>__<span style="color: black;">ns</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. But it is also driven by Japan's own national ambition to be a leader in East Asia or at least not to play second fiddle or "little brother" to China. China and Japan are now in a competitive quest with each trying to augment its own status and power and to prevent the other 's rise to predominance, and this competition has a military and strategic as well as an economic and political component. Their competition is such that a nation like South Korea, with a long unhappy history as a pawn between the two powers, is once again worrying both about a "greater China" and about the return of Japanese nationalism. As Aaron Friedberg commented, the East Asian future looks more like Europe's past than its present. But it also looks like Asia's past. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Russian foreign policy</span>__<span style="color: black;">,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> too, looks more like something from the nineteenth century. It </span>__<span style="color: black;">is </span>__<span class="UnderlineChar">being driven by a typical, and typically Russian, blend of national resentment and ambition</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. A postmodern Russia simply seeking integration into the new European order, the Russia of Andrei Kozyrev, would not be troubled by the eastward enlargement of the EU and NATO, would not insist on predominant influence over its "near abroad," and would not use its natural resources as means of gaining geopolitical leverage and enhancing Russia 's international status in an attempt to regain the lost glories of the Soviet empire and Peter the Great. But Russia, like China and Japan, is moved by more traditional great-power considerations, including the pursuit of those valuable if intangible national interests: honor and respect. Although Russian leaders complain about threats to their security from NATO and the United States, the Russian sense of insecurity has more to do with resentment and national identity than with plausible external military threats. 16 Russia's complaint today is not with this or that weapons system. It is the entire post-Cold War settlement of the 1990s that Russia resents and wants to revise. But that does not make insecurity less a factor in Russia 's relations with the world; indeed, it makes finding compromise with the Russians all the more difficult. One could add others to this list of great powers with traditional rather than postmodern aspirations. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">India 's regional ambitions are more muted, or are focused most intently on Pakistan, but it is clearly engaged in competition with China for dominance in the Indian Ocea</span>__<span style="color: black;">n</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> and sees itself, correctly, as an emerging great power on the world scene. In the Middle East there is Iran, which mingles religious fervor with a historical sense of superiority and leadership in its region. 17 Its nuclear program is as much about the desire for regional hegemony as about defending Iranian territory from attack by the United States. Even the European Union, in its way, expresses a pan-European national ambition to play a significant role in the world, and it has become the vehicle for channeling German, French, and British ambitions in what Europeans regard as a safe supranational direction. Europeans seek honor and respect, too, but of a postmodern variety. The honor they seek is to occupy the moral high ground in the world, to exercise moral authority, to wield political and economic influence as an antidote to militarism, to be the keeper of the global conscience, and to be recognized and admired by others for playing this role. Islam is not a nation, but many Muslims express a kind of religious nationalism, and the leaders of radical Islam, including al Qaeda, do seek to establish a theocratic nation or confederation of nations that would encompass a wide swath of the Middle East and beyond. Like national movements elsewhere, Islamists have a yearning for respect, including self-respect, and a desire for honor. Their national identity has been molded in defiance against stronger and often oppressive outside powers, and also by memories of ancient superiority over those same powers. China had its "century of humiliation." Islamists have more than a century of humiliation to look back on, a humiliation of which Israel has become the living symbol, which is partly why even Muslims who are neither radical nor fundamentalist proffer their sympathy and even their support to violent extremists who can turn the tables on the dominant liberal West, and particularly on a dominant America which implanted and still feeds the Israeli cancer in their midst. Finally, there is </span>the U<span class="UnderlineChar">nited </span>S<span class="UnderlineChar">tates</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> itself. As a matter of national policy stretching back across numerous administrations, Democratic and Republican, liberal and conservative, Americans have insisted on preserving regional predominance in East Asia; the Middle East; the Western Hemisphere; until recently, Europe; and now, increasingly, Central Asia. This was its goal after the Second World War, and since the end of the Cold War, beginning with the first Bush administration and continuing through the Clinton years, the United States did not retract but expanded its influence eastward across Europe and into the Middle East, Central Asia, and the Caucasus. Even as it maintains its position as the predominant global power, it </span>is<span class="UnderlineChar"> also </span>engaged in hegemonic competitions in these regions with China in East and Central Asia, with Iran in the Middle East and Central Asia, and with Russia in Eastern Europe, Central Asia, and the Caucasus<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. The United States, too, is more of a traditional than a postmodern power, and though Americans are loath to acknowledge it, they generally prefer their global place as "No. 1" and are equally loath to relinquish it. Once having entered a region, whether for practical or idealistic reasons, they are remarkably slow to withdraw from it until they believe they have substantially transformed it in their own image. They profess indifference to the world and claim they just want to be left alone even as they seek daily to shape the behavior of billions of people around the globe. The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would-be nations is a second defining feature of the new post-Cold War international system. </span>Nationalism in all its forms is back,<span class="UnderlineChar"> if it ever went away, </span>and so is international competition for power, influence, honor, and status. American predominance prevents these rivalries from intensifyin<span class="UnderlineChar">g -- its regional as well as its global predominance. </span>Were the U<span class="UnderlineChar">nited </span>S<span class="UnderlineChar">tates </span>to diminish its influence in the regions where it is currently the strongest power, the other nations would settle disputes<span class="UnderlineChar"> as great and lesser powers have done in the past: sometimes through diplomacy and accommodation but often </span>through confrontation and wars<span class="UnderlineChar"> of varying scope, intensity, and destructiveness. </span>One novel aspect of such a multipolar world is that most of these powers would possess nuclear weapons. That could make wars between them<span class="UnderlineChar"> less likely, or it could simply make them more </span>catastrophic.<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> It is easy but also dangerous to underestimate the role the United States plays in providing a measure of stability in the world even as it also disrupts stability. For instance, the United States is the dominant naval power everywhere, such that other nations cannot compete with it even in their home waters. They either happily or grudgingly allow the United States Navy to be the guarantor of international waterways and trade routes, of international access to markets and raw materials such as oil. Even when the United States engages in a war, it is able to play its role as guardian of the waterways. In a more genuinely multipolar world, however, it would not. Nations would compete for naval dominance at least in their own regions and possibly beyond. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Conflict between nations would involve struggles on the oceans as well as on land. Armed embargos, of the kind used in World War i and other major conflicts, would disrupt trade flows in a way that is now impossible. Such order as exists in the world rests not merely on the goodwill of peoples but on a foundation provided by American power. Even the European Union, that great geopolitical miracle, owes its founding to American power, for without it the European nations after World War ii would never have felt secure enough to reintegrate Germany. Most Europeans recoil at the thought, but even today </span>Europe 's stability depends on the guarantee<span class="UnderlineChar">, however distant and one hopes unnecessary, </span>that the U<span class="UnderlineChar">nited </span>S<span class="UnderlineChar">tates </span>could step in to check any dangerous development on the continent. In a genuinely multipolar world, that would not be possible without renewing the danger of world war**<span style="color: black;">.</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> People who believe greater equality among nations would be preferable to the present American predominance often succumb to a basic logical fallacy. They believe the order the world enjoys today exists independently of American power. They imagine that in a world where American power was diminished, the aspects of international order that they like would remain in place. But that 's not the way it works. International order does not rest on ideas and institutions. It is shaped by configurations of power. The international order we know today reflects the distribution of power in the world since World War ii, and especially since the end of the Cold War. A different configuration of power, a multipolar world in which the poles were Russia, China, the United States, India, and Europe, would produce its own kind of order, with different rules and norms reflecting the interests of the powerful states that would have a hand in shaping it. Would that international order be an improvement? Perhaps for Beijing and Moscow it would. But it is doubtful that it would suit the tastes of enlightenment liberals in the United States and Europe. The current order, of course, is not only far from perfect but also offers no guarantee against major conflict among the world's great powers. </span>Even under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt. War could erupt between China and Taiwan<span class="UnderlineChar"> and draw in both the United States and Japan. War could erupt </span>between Russia and Georgia,<span class="UnderlineChar"> forcing the United States and its European allies to decide whether to intervene or suffer the consequences of a Russian victory. Conflict </span>between India and Pakistan<span class="UnderlineChar"> remains possible, as does conflict </span>between Iran and Israel or other Middle Eastern states. These, too, could draw in other great powers,<span class="UnderlineChar"> including the United States. Such conflicts may be unavoidable no matter what policies the United States pursues. </span>But they are more likely to erupt if the U<span class="UnderlineChar">nited </span>S<span class="UnderlineChar">tates </span>weakens or withdraws from its positions of regional dominance<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. This is especially </span><span class="UnderlineChar">true in East Asia</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, where </span><span class="UnderlineChar">most nations agree that a reliable American power has a stabilizing and pacific effect on the region.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> That is certainly the view of most of China 's neighbors. But even China, which seeks gradually to supplant the United States as the dominant power in the region, faces the dilemma that an American withdrawal could unleash an ambitious, independent, nationalist Japan. </span>__<span style="color: black;">In </span>__<span class="UnderlineChar">Europe</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, too, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the departure of the United States</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> from the scene -- even if it remained the world's most powerful nation -- </span><span class="UnderlineChar">could be destabilizing. It could tempt Russia to an even more overbearing and potentially forceful approach to unruly nations on its periphery.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Although some realist theorists seem to imagine that the disappearance of the Soviet Union put an end to the possibility of confrontation between Russia and the West, and therefore to the need for a permanent American role in Europe, history suggests that conflicts in Europe involving Russia are possible even without Soviet communism</span><span class="UnderlineChar">. If the United States withdrew from Europe -- if it adopted what some call a strategy of "offshore balancing" -- this could in time increase the likelihood of conflict involving Russia and its near neighbors, which could in turn draw the United States back in under unfavorable circumstances. It is also optimistic to imagine that a retrenchment of the American position in the Middle East and the assumption of a more passive, "offshore" role would lead to greater stability there</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. The vital interest the United States has in access to oil and the role it plays in keeping access open to other nations in Europe and Asia make it unlikely that American leaders could or would stand back and hope for the best while the powers in the region battle it out. Nor would a more "even-handed" policy toward Israel, which some see as the magic key to unlocking peace, stability, and comity in the Middle East, obviate the need to come to Israel 's aid if its security became threatened. That commitment, paired with the American commitment to protect strategic oil supplies for most of the world, practically ensures a heavy American military presence in the region, both on the seas and on the ground. The subtraction of American power from any region would not end conflict but would simply change the equation. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">In the Middle East, competition for influence among powers both inside and outside the region has raged for at least two centuries. The rise of Islamic fundamentalism doesn't change this. It only adds a new and more threatening dimension to the competition, which neither a sudden end to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians nor an immediate American withdrawal from Iraq would change. </span>The alternative to American predominance<span class="UnderlineChar"> in the region </span>is not balance and peace. It is further competition<span class="UnderlineChar">. The region and the states within it remain relatively weak. </span>A diminution of American influence would not be followed by a diminution of other external influences. One could expect deeper involvement by both China and Russia<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, if only to secure their interests. 18 And one could also expect the more powerful states of the region, particularly Iran, to expand and fill the vacuum. It is doubtful that any American administration would voluntarily take actions that could shift the balance of power in the Middle East further toward Russia, China, or Iran. The world hasn 't changed that much. An American withdrawal from Iraq will not return things to "normal" or to a new kind of stability in the region. It will produce a new instability, one likely to draw the United States back in again. The alternative to American regional predominance in the Middle East and elsewhere is not a new regional stability. In an era of burgeoning nationalism, the future is likely to be one of intensified competition among nations and nationalist movements. Difficult as it may be to extend American predominance into the future, no one should imagine that a reduction of American power or a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>
=2AC Security= 
Prior questions are reductionist – they’re not explanatory and paralyze politics
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Owen 2</span> (David Owen, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">‘[a] frenzy for words like “epistemology” and “ontology”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> often </span><span class="UnderlineChar">signals </span>this philosophical turn<span style="font-size: 8pt;">’, although he goes on to comment that these terms are often used loosely.4 However, loosely deployed or not, it is clear that debates concerning ontology and epistemology play a central role in the contemporary IR theory wars. In one respect, this is unsurprising since it is a characteristic feature of the social sciences that periods of disciplinary disorientation involve recourse to reflection on the philosophical commitments of different theoretical approaches, and there is no doubt that such reflection can play a valuable role in making explicit the commitments that characterise (and help individuate) diverse theoretical positions. Yet, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">such a </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">philosophical</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> turn is not without its dangers </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and I will briefly mention three before turning to consider a confusion that has, I will suggest, helped to promote the IR theory wars by motivating this philosophical turn. The first danger with the philosophical turn is that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">it </span>has a<span class="UnderlineChar">n inbuilt </span>tendency to prioritise issues of ontology and epistemology over explanatory<span class="UnderlineChar"> and/or interpretive </span>power<span class="UnderlineChar"> as if the latter</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> two </span><span class="UnderlineChar">were merely a </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">simple function</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> of the former. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">But while </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the explanatory and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">/or </span><span class="UnderlineChar">interpretive power of a theoretical account is not </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">wholly independent of its ontological and/or epistemological commitments (otherwise criticism of these features would not be a criticism that had any value), it is by no means clear that it is, in contrast, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">wholly dependent on these philosophical commitments.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thus, for example, one need not be sympathetic to rational choice theory to recognise that it can provide powerful accounts of certain kinds of problems, such as the tragedy of the commons in which dilemmas of collective action are foregrounded.</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> It may</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, of course, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">be the case that the advocates of rational choice theory cannot give a good account of why this type of theory is powerful </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in accounting for this class of problems (i.e., how it is that the relevant actors come to exhibit features in these circumstances that approximate the assumptions of rational choice theory) and, i</span><span class="UnderlineChar">f this is the case, it is a </span>philosophical weakness<span class="UnderlineChar">—but this </span>does not undermine the point that<span class="UnderlineChar">, for a certain class of problems, </span>rational choice theory may provide the best account available<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> to us.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In other words, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">while the critical judgement of theoretical accounts in terms of their ontological and/or epistemological sophistication is one kind of critical judgement, it is not the only or even necessarily the </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">most important </span><span class="UnderlineChar">kind</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The second danger run by the philosophical turn is that </span>because prioritisation<span class="UnderlineChar"> of ontology and epistemology </span>promotes theory-construction<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from philosophical first principles,</span>it cultivates a theory-driven<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> rather than problem-driven </span>approach to IR<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Paraphrasing Ian Shapiro, the point can be put like this:</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> since</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> it is the case that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">there is always a plurality of possible true descriptions </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">of a given action, event or phenomenon,</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> the challenge is to decide which is the most apt in terms of getting a perspicuous </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">grip on</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">action,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> event or phenomenon in question given the purposes of the inquiry; yet, from this standpoint, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">‘theory-driven work is part of a </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">reductionist program’</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> in that it ‘dictates always opting for the description that calls for the explanation that flows from the </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">preferred model </span><span class="UnderlineChar">or theory’.5 The justification</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> offered for this strategy </span><span class="UnderlineChar">rests on the mistaken belief that it is necessary for social science because general explanations are required to characterise the classes of phenomena studied in similar terms. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, as Shapiro points out,</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> this is to misunderstand the enterprise of science</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> since ‘whether there are general explanations for classes of phenomena is a question for social-scientific inquiry, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">not to be prejudged </span><span class="UnderlineChar">before conducting that inquiry’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.6 Moreover, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">this strategy easily slips </span>into<span class="UnderlineChar"> the promotion of </span>the pursuit of generality over that of empirical validity<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The third danger is that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the preceding</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> two </span><span class="UnderlineChar">combine to encourage the formation of a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> particular image of disciplinary debate in IR—what might be called (only slightly tongue in cheek) ‘the </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Highlander view’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—namely, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">an image of warring theoretical approaches</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with each, despite occasional temporary tactical alliances, dedicated to the strategic achievement of sovereignty over the disciplinary field. It encourages this view because </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> turn to, and </span>prioritisation of, ontology and epistemology stimulates the idea that there can only be one theoretical approach which gets things right<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, namely, the theoretical approach that gets its ontology and epistemology right. </span>This image feeds back into IR exacerbating<span class="UnderlineChar"> the first and second </span>dangers, and<span class="UnderlineChar"> so </span>a<span class="UnderlineChar"> potentially </span>vicious circle arises<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>

Security can’t be deconstructed – scenario planning is the only ethical option
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weaver 2k</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ole Weaver, International relations theory and the politics of European integration, 2k p. 284-285</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The other</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> main </span><span class="UnderlineChar">possibility is to stress' responsibility</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Particularly in</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> a field like </span><span class="UnderlineChar">security one has to make choices and deal with the challenges and risks that one confronts – and not shy away into long-range or principled trans-formations.</span>The meta political line risks<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(despite the theoretical commit­ment to the concrete other</span><span class="UnderlineChar">) </span>implying that politics can be contained within<span class="UnderlineChar"> large </span>'systemic questions<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. In line with he classical revolutionary tradition</span><span class="UnderlineChar">, after the change</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (now no longer the revolution but the meta-physical trans­formation), </span><span class="UnderlineChar">there will be no more problems whereas in our situation (</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">until the change) </span><span class="UnderlineChar">we should not deal with the 'small questions' of politics, only with the large one</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (cf. Rorty 1996). </span><span class="UnderlineChar">However, </span>the ethical demand<span class="UnderlineChar"> i</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">n post-structuralism (e.g. Derrida's 'justice'</span><span class="UnderlineChar">) is of a kind that </span>can never be instan­tiated in<span class="UnderlineChar"> any concrete </span>political order<span class="UnderlineChar">– It is an experience of the undecidable that exceeds any concrete solution and reinserts politics</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. Therefore, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">politics can never be reduced to meta-questions there is no way to erase the small, particular, banal conflicts and controversies.</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In contrast to the quasi-institutionalist formula of radical democracy which one finds in the 'opening' oriented version of deconstruction, we could with Derrida stress the singularity of the event. To take a position, take part, and 'produce events' (Derrida 1994: 89) means to get involved in specific struggles. Politics takes place 'in the singular event of engage­ment' (Derrida 1996: 83). </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Derrida's politics is focused on the calls that demand response/responsi­bility contained in words like justice</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, Europe and emancipation</span><span class="UnderlineChar">. Should we treat security in this manner? No, security is not that kind of call. </span>'Security' is not a way to open<span class="UnderlineChar"> (</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">or keep open) </span>an ethical horizon<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Security is a<span class="UnderlineChar"> much more </span>situational concept<span class="UnderlineChar"> oriented to the handling of specifics. </span>It belongs to the sphere of how to<span class="UnderlineChar"> handle challenges – and </span>avoid 'the worst'<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Derrida 1991). </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Here enters</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> again </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the possible pessimism which for the security analyst might be occupational or structural. </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The infinitude of responsibility (Derrida 1996: 86) or the tragic nature of politics (Morgenthau 1946, Chapter 7) means that one can never feel reassured that by some 'good deed', 'I have assumed my responsibilities ' (Derrida 1996: 86). If I conduct myself particularly well with regard to someone, I know that it is to the detriment of an other; of one nation to the detriment of my friends to the detriment of other friends or non-friends, etc. This is the infinitude that inscribes itself within responsibility; otherwise there would he no ethical problems or decisions. (ibid.; and parallel argumentation in Morgenthau 1946; Chapters 6 and 7) Because of this </span><span class="UnderlineChar">there will remain conflicts and risks - and the question of how to handle them</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. Should developments be securitized (and if so, in </span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">what </span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">terms)? </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Often, our reply will be to aim for de-securitization and then politics meet meta-politics; but </span>occasionally<span class="UnderlineChar"> the underlying </span>pessimism <span class="UnderlineChar">regarding the prospects for orderliness</span> and compatibility among human aspirations will point to scenarios<span class="UnderlineChar"> sufficiently worrisome that responsibility </span>will entail securitization<span class="UnderlineChar"> in order </span>to block the worst<span class="UnderlineChar">. As a security</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">/securitization</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> analyst, this means accepting the task of </span>trying to manageand avoid<span class="UnderlineChar"> spirals and accelerating </span>security concerns<span class="UnderlineChar">, to try to assist in shaping the continent in a way that </span>creates the least insecurity and violence - even if this<span class="UnderlineChar"> occasionally </span>means<span class="UnderlineChar"> invoking/producing `structures' or even </span>using<span class="UnderlineChar"> the dubious instrument of </span>securitization.<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> In the case of the current European configuration, the above analysis suggests the use of securitization at the level of European scenarios with the aim of pre­empting and avoiding numerous instances of local securitization that could lead to security dilemmas and escalations, violence and mutual vilification.</span>

Perm do the plan and all non-mutually exclusive parts of the alternative – double bind – either the alt is strong enough to solve the residual link of the plan or it can’t solve at all

Alt can’t solve – No acceptable solution or empirical evaluation
Walt 99<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen, Professor of International Affairs at Harvard University, “Rigor or Rigor Mortis? Rational Choice and Security Studies,” International Security, 23(4),) </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Taken together, these characteristics help explain why </span><span class="UnderlineChar">recent formal work has had relatively little to say about important real-world security issues. Although </span>formal<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> techniques produce precise</span><span class="UnderlineChar">, logically consistent arguments, they often </span>rest on unrealistic assumptions and the results are rarely translated into<span class="UnderlineChar"> clear and </span>accessible conclusions<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. And</span>because<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> many formal </span>conjectures are<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> often</span>untested,<span class="UnderlineChar">policymakers and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> concerned </span>citizens have no way of knowing if the arguments are valid<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In this sense, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">much of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the recent formal work in </span><span class="UnderlineChar">security studies reflects the "cult of irrelevance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">" </span><span class="UnderlineChar">that pervades much of contemporary social science</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Instead of using<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> their </span>expertise to address<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> important </span>real-world problems, academics<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> often </span>focus on<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> narrow and </span>trivial problems<span class="UnderlineChar"> that</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> may</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> impress </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">their </span><span class="UnderlineChar">colleagues but are of little practical value</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">If </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">formal </span><span class="UnderlineChar">theory were to dominate security studies as it has other areas</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of political science, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">much of the scholarship</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the field </span><span class="UnderlineChar">would</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> likely </span><span class="UnderlineChar">be produced by people with</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> impressive technical skills </span><span class="UnderlineChar">but little or no substantive knowledge of history, politics, or strategy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[111] </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Such fields are prone to become "method-driven" rather than "problem-driven</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">," as research topics are chosen not because they are important but because they are amenable to analysis by the reigning methode du jour.[112] </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Instead of being a source of independent criticism</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and creative, socially useful ideas, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the </span>academic world becomes<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> an </span>isolated<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> community engaged solely in dialogue with itself.[113] </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Through</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">out most of </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the postwar period</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the field of </span><span class="UnderlineChar">security studies managed to avoid this</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> danger</span><span class="UnderlineChar">. It has been theoretically and methodologically diverse</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but </span><span class="UnderlineChar">its agenda has been shapedmore by real-world problems than by methodological fads.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> New theoretical or methodological innovations have been brought to bear on particular research puzzles, but the field as a whole has retained considerable real-world relevance. By contrast, </span>recent formal work<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in security studies</span>has little to say about<span class="UnderlineChar"> contemporary </span>security issues<span class="UnderlineChar">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Formal rational choice theorists have been largely absent from the major international security debates of the past decade (such as the nature of the post-Cold War world; the character, causes, and strength of the democratic peace; the potential contribution of security institutions; the causes of ethnic conflict; the future role of nuclear weapons; or the impact of ideas and culture on strategy and conflict). These debates have been launched and driven primarily by scholars using nonformal methods, and formal theorists have joined in only after the central parameters were established by others.[114] Thus </span><span class="UnderlineChar">one of the main strengths of the subfield</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of security studies--namely, its close connection to real-world issues--</span><span class="UnderlineChar">could be lost if the narrow tendencies of the modeling community took control of its research agenda</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


a. undermines institutional restraints – empirically proven
**__Wallace ‘96__** (William Wallace, Professor, London School of Economics, “Truth and Power, Monks and Technocrats: Theory and Practice in International Relations,” Review of International Studies, 22(3), p. 307-309)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">But </span>**if we** cling to our intellectual chastity ... **to the strengthening of civil society rather than to undermine it**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.32</span>


b. fails to persuade decision-makers
**__McClean ‘1__** (David E. McClean, “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope,” Am. Phil. Conf., 2001, http://www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Yet for some reason, at least partially exp</span> ... so-called "managerial class<span style="font-size: 7pt;">."</span>


This turns the K and provides multiple external scenarios for extinction
**__Boggs ’97__** (Carl Boggs, Professor of Social Sciences, National University, “The Great Retreat: Decline of the Public Sphere in Late Twentieth-Century America,” Theory and Society, 26(6), December 1997, SpringerLink)
The decline of the public sphere: ... the embodiment of those universal, collective interests that had vanished from civil society.75

We are the solidarist praxis – that’s key to successful problematization of security
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bellamy and McDonald 4</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alex J. Bellamy, Lecturer in Peace and Conflict Studies at the University of Queenss, and Matt McDonald, Lecturer in the School of Politics and International Relations at the University of New South Wales, ‘4 [Australian Journal of Political Science 39.2, “'Securing international society: towards an English school discourse of security,” p. informaworld]</span>
An English School discourse of security ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">along the way to a cosmopolitan world community</span>
=2AC China Currency= 
Not passing – House blocks and Obama won’t sign
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Washington Times 10/12</span> (Washington Times, 10/12/11 [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/oct/12/boehner-still-defiant-china-currency-bill/?utm_source=RSS_Feed&utm_medium=RSS]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">Despite bipartisan support</span> in the Senate <span class="UnderlineChar">for a ...</span> The White House has implied that Mr. Obama wouldn’t sign the bill if it passes both chambers as written.

Not passing – business and House opposition
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Xinhua 10/12</span> (Xinhua News Agency, 10/12/11 [[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/world/2011-10/13/c_131188005.htm]])

WASHINGTON, Oct. 12 (Xinhua) -- A controversial currency bill passed ... legislation a "dangerous" move.
The disad. is not intrinsic – a logical policymaker could do both the plan and pass the currency bil

The aerospace lobby is key to all parts of the agenda
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lasker 8</span> (John Lasker, Inter Press Service News Agency, "Aerospace Lobby Wages Its Own Election Campaign," September 5, http://ipsnews.net/africa/nota.asp?idnews=43804)

COLUMBUS, Ohio, Sep 5 (IPS) - "<span class="UnderlineChar">In about the time it takes you to drive ...</span>both Sen. Inouye and Rep. Murtha are considered "space hawks" by peace activists.

Political capital is not key – issues are compartmentalized
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dickinson 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” [[@http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As for Sotomayor, from here the path... be measured through legislative boxscores.</span>

Obama’s political power is dying – his polcap is low, and even if it was high his push doesn’t get anyone on board
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blake 10/13</span> (Aaron, Staff Writer at the Washington Post, “Comments White House, Campaign 2012 Democrats thwart Obama’s bipartisan goals again,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/post/democrats-thwart-obamas-bipartisan-goals-again/2011/10/12/gIQAk9IShL_blog.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It’s become a familiar refrain in ... are hesitant to do the same.</span>

Polcap low – he can’t even push his own jobs bill
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Page 10/12</span> (Clarence, member of the Chicago Tribune's editorial board, 10/12/11, “Barack Obama's lonely presidency,” http://mobile.chicagotribune.com/p.p?a=rp&m=b&postId=986507&curAbsIndex=2&resultsUrl=DID%3D6%26DFCL%3D1000%26DSB%3Drank%2523desc%26DBFQ%3DuserId%253A54%26DFC%3Dcat1%252Ccat2%252Ccat3%26DL.w%3D%26DL.d%3D10%26DQ%3DsectionId%253A5579%26DPS%3D0%26DPL%3D3)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sure, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Obama barnstormed the country, ... attractive in a presidential candidate can prove to be disastrous in a president</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Polcap low – attempts at bipartisanship
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Segar 10/8</span> (Mike, Reuters, “Romney Foreign Policy Vision a Big Dud,” http://www.theatlantic.com/steve-clemons/)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Obama White House fears ...thinks and who he surrounds himself with.</span>
=Negative= 
Wake Round 2 - Negative vs. SPS
1NC: ASPEC, XO, Politics, Case (Peak Oil, Solvency, Warming, Heg)
2NR: XO, Politics