[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="text-align: center;">__**1AC**__</span>
<span style="text-align: center;">__**Contention 1: Inherency**__</span>

<span style="text-align: center;">**1.NASA cancelled SPS research due to lack of funding**
</span>
**New Scientist**, 1/10/**09,** Factiva, “NASA scraps space solar power; A leaked letter reveals NASA is cutting its research into space-based solar power as it doesn't have the funds for a demonstration” 
__**NASA appears to have cancelled its research into**__
AND 
also thought to support solar power from space.

**2.SPS is feasible now—no breakthrough required**
**National Security Space Office****(NSSO),** DOD 
AND .org/settlement/ssp/library/
The __**SBSP**__ Study Group found that Space‐
AND 
—this requires even more stringent technical requirements. 
<span style="text-align: center;">__**Plan Text**__</span>

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should implement a substantial space based solar power program beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**



<span style="text-align: center;">__**Contention 2 is Economy**__ </span>
**1. SPS has the potential to alleviate poverty, boost economic growth, create jobs and stimulate the national tech base**
<span style="color: #333233;"><span style="color: #000000;">**Garretson 10****,** Peter Garretson, </span>chief, future science and technology exploration, for the U.S. Air Force. He has studied advanced space and energy concepts for the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Sky’s No Limit”, IDSA, Ebsco</span>

__**The significance of SBSP systems lies in its**__ 
__**AND**__ 
__**and high tech industry and national tech base.**__

2. Aerospace cuts are coming in the squo which will kill the economy – aerospace fuels billions of dollars of industry spending and supports thousands of high-paying tech jobs
**Reuters 9/8/11**, Malathi Nayak, Bernard Orr, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/09/aero-arms-summit-jobs-idUSN1E78729T20110909]]

U.S. military contractors are more 
__**AND**__ 
__**of their jobs in these difficult economic times."**__
The group plans to next circulate a similar letter to key members of Congress.
(Additional reporting by Malathi Nayak, editing by Bernard Orr)

**3.Aerospace industry is dying now—Creation of a developmental infrastructure for SPS will save the industry- it’s try or die for the aff.** 
**NSSO** (National Security Space Office), DoD department for space security 10/10/**07****,** http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf
FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that 
__**AND**__ 
__**would be a powerful expression of this imperative.**__

**4. US is key to global economic growth**
**Mead 4** (Walter Russell, Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, Foreign Policy, April 1, pg. Lexis) 

Similarly, in the last 60 years, 
AND 
.S. economic might is sticky power.

**5. Economic stagnation risks global instability and nuclear conflict**
Michael **Auslin**, a resident scholar **and** Desmond **Lachman**, resident fellow at AEI, “The Global Economy Unravels**,” March 6,** 200**9** http://aei.org/publications/pubID.29502,filter.all/pub_detail.asp]
What do these trends mean in the short 
AND 
small explosions that coalesce into a __**big bang**__. 

<span style="text-align: center;">__**Contention 3 is Cooperation**__</span>
<span style="text-align: center;">__**Scenario 1 is Soft Power**__ </span>
<span style="text-align: center;"> **1.SPS could provide quick response to devastating natural disasters, and drive humanitarian and peacekeeping missions in remote regions of the world.** </span>
**Business Recorder, 2007** (“PENTAGON EXAMINES USE OF SOLAR UNIT IN SPACE,” December 25, lexis)

But it remains to be seen whether companies 
AND 
expensive and the necessary technology was not available.

**2.Medical care and assistance solves soft power – it wins over local populations**
David **Axe.**9.7.**09**. “Winning hearts, minds in Latin America” The Washington Times. David Axe is a military correspondent living in Washington, D.C. Since 2005 he has reported from Iraq, Lebanon, East Timor, Afghanistan and Somalia. He is a regular contributor to The Washington Times, C-SPAN and BBC Radio, among many others. http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2008/sep/07/soft-power-for-hard-problems/?page=2

For Adm. Stavridis, __**a prominent former**__ 
AND 
aircraft," Adm. Stavridis said last year. 

**3.SPS development in particular will strengthen US soft power**
**NSSO** (National Security Space Office), DoD department for space security 10/10/**07****,** http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf
The interim review did not uncover any hard 
AND 
on the construction of such a framework immediately.

**4.SPS can launch international cooperation – key to long term alliances** 
**NSSO 7** (National Security Space Office Report, 150 person international expert collaboration, 10/10/7 “Space‐Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security” [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]])

__**It has been nearly a decade since a**__ 
__**AND**__ 
__**or strengthen strategically stabilizing long‐term partnerships.**__

**5. Soft power prevents resentment and enables the US to confront all the global issues**
Joseph **Nye**, Distinguished Professor in IR at Harvard, oh, and he coined the term soft power, **and** Richard **Armitage** , Former Deputy Secretary of State and President of Armitage International, 20**0****7**“CCIS Commission of Smart Power – A Smarter, more Secure America”, http://www.csis.org/media/csis/pubs/071106_csissmartpowerreport.pdf) MP
Today’s Challenges __**The twenty-first century presents**__ 
__**AND**__ 
__**kills, but how many allies it grows.**__


<span style="text-align: center;">__Scenario 2 is Indo-US Relations__</span>
**1. Indo-US relations on the decline now—Obama is focused on domestic issues and China** 
**Greenway 10**, HDS Greenway, Washington Post in Washington, Saigon, Hong Kong, and Jerusalem from 1972-1978. From 1978 to 2000, he served as the Foreign Editor, National Editor, and Editorial Page Editor at “The Boston Globe”, 6/10/10, “Is Obama too much the Pacific president and not enough the Indian Ocean president?”, http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/worldview/100609/india-US-relations-foreign-policy

BOSTON __**— It is ironic that while during**__ 
AND 
strategic thinkers, journalists and former diplomats are.

**2. The groundwork is there for cooperation, and Joint Indo-US program makes SPS deployment cheaper and boosts relations**
**Garretson 10****,** Peter Garretson, chief, future science and technology exploration, for the U.S. Air Force. He has studied advanced space and energy concepts for the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Sky’s No Limit”, IDSA, Ebsco

While most Indian audiences encountered by the researcher 
__**AND**__ 
__**number and type and competence of technical capabilities.**__

**3. Obama-Singh joint statement committed the U.S. and India to cooperation on energy technology and space development—acting on this agreement will vastly improve relations** 
**Garretson 10****,** Peter Garretson, chief, future science and technology exploration, for the U.S. Air Force. He has studied advanced space and energy concepts for the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Sky’s No Limit”, IDSA, Ebsco

And the US-India Joint Statement of 
__**AND**__ 
__**capabilities in outer space and for development purposes.”**__


**4. Indo-US relations key to solve for a laundry list of issues: terrorism, proliferation, Asian stability, and spread of democracy** 
**Burns, 5**, Nicholas Burns, Under Secretary for Political Affairs, 9-8-05, Congressional Testimony before the House International Relations Committee, “The U.S. and India: An Emerging Entente?” http://www.nti.org/e_research/official_docs/dos/dos090805.pdf

A strong democratic India is an important partner 
AND 
resonance all these programs have for both countries.

**5.Failure to Stop Terrorism leads to Extinction, our timeframe is 2013**
**Allison, ‘10** - Douglas Dillon professor of government and director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government (Graham, “A Failure to Imagine the Worst,” Foreign Policy, January 25th,[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/25/a_failure_to_imagine_the_worst?page=0,0]]) 

In his first speech to the U.N. Security … determination to pursue it. 
<span style="color: #292929;">In his first speech to the U.</span>
<span style="color: #292929;">__**AND**__ </span>
<span style="color: #292929;">__**economies, and our very way of life."**__</span>
Before the Sept. 11, 2001, assault on the World Trade Center and Pentagon, who could have imagined that terrorists would mount an attack on the American homeland that would kill more citizens than Japan did at Pearl Harbor? As then-Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice <span style="color: #004576;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2004/04/09/us/threats-responses-excerpts-rice-s-testimony-before-commission-investigating-sept.html?scp=1&sq=&pagewanted=all%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|__**testified to the 9/11 Commission**__]]</span>: "No one could have imagined them taking a plane, slamming it into the Pentagon ... into the World Trade Center, using planes as missiles." For most Americans, the idea of international terrorists conducting a successful attack on their homeland, killing thousands of citizens, was not just unlikely. It was inconceivable.
As is now evident, assertions about what 
__**AND**__ 
__**in the world by the end of 2013."**__
<span style="color: #292929;">Faced with the possibility of an American Hiroshima, many Americans are paralyzed by a combination of denial and fatalism. <span style="color: #000000;">__**Either it hasn't happened, so it's not going to happen; or, if it is going to happen, there's nothing we can do to stop it. Both propositions are wrong.**__</span> The countdown to a nuclear 9/11 can be stopped, but only by realistic recognition of the threat, a clear agenda for action, and relentless determination to pursue it.</span>

<span style="color: #292929;">**6.****Asian instability leads to global nuclear war – most probable scenario**</span>
**Landay 2000** Jonathan S. Landay (national security and intelligence correspondent for the Contra Costa Times) March 10, 2000, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts” Lexis
Few if any experts think China and Taiwan
AND 
billion last year, according to the Commerce Department


<span style="text-align: center;">__**Contention 4 is Energy**__</span>
<span style="text-align: center;">__**Scenario 1 is Warming**__</span>

<span style="text-align: center;">**1.Solar technology leads to global energy independence—removes the need for foreign oil**</span>
**NSS 07** **NSS,** National Space Society, October **2007**, “Space Solar Power Limitless clean energy from space”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/index.htm
__**The United States and the world need to**__ 
AND 
resources of the solar system within economic reach.
__**Space solar power will not require dependence on unstable or hostile foreign oil providers to meet energy needs , enabling us to expend resources in other ways. Space solar power can be exported to virtually any place in the world , and its energy can be converted for local needs  such as manufacture of methanol for use in places like rural India**__ where there areno electric power grids. Space solar power can also be used for desalination of sea water. Space solar power can take advantage of our current and historic investment in aerospace expertise to expand employment opportunities in solving the difficult problems of energy security and climate change. Space solar power can provide a market large enough to develop the low-cost space transportation system that is required for its deployment. This , in turn, will also bring the resources of the solar system within economic reach.

**2.Specifically, Earth based solar power is counterproductive – it increases carbon output**
**Kramer 11** Conrad Kramer**,** executive director of the Anza-Borrego Foundation, which works to support Anza-Borrego Desert State Park, 1/6/**11**, Sign on San Diego, “Why not solar power in the desert? Here’s why” [[http://www.signonsandiego.com/news/2011/jan/06/why-not-solar-power-in-the-desert-heres-why/|www.signonsandiego.com/news/2011/jan/06/why-not-solar-power-in-the-desert-heres-why/]]
__**Scientists are discovering that desert soils are actually**__ 
__**AND**__ 
__**more than the renewable facilities would decrease them**__

**3.SPS has the capacity to fulfill all of Earth’s energy needs, replacing fossil fuels**
**NSS 11** **National Space Society,** independent, educational, grassroots, non-profit organization dedicated to the creation of a space faring civilization, 7/13/**11**, www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/index.htm
The United States and the world need to 
AND 
nearly all the electrical needs of our planet.

**4.Fossil fuels release greenhouse gases, which are the main cause of global warming**
**Simoes and Rovere 08** André Felipe **Simões**, D.Sc., Researcher, The Center for Integrated Studies on Climate Change and the Environment and Visitant Professor at the Energy Department of the State University of Campinas, **and** Emilio Lèbre La **Rovere** Head of the The Center for Integrated Studies on Climate Change and the Environment, COPPE/Federal University of Rio de Janeiro – UFRJ and Professor at the Energy and Environmental at the University of Rio de Janeiro, 6/18/**08**, Energy Sources, Part A: Recovery, Utilization, and Environmental Effects, Vol 30, Iss 14-15, pg 1327, “Energy Sources and Global Climate Change: The Brazilian Case” Taylor & Francis Online
Abstract __**If the world continues to follow a**__ 
AND 
a huge RE potential yet to be tapped. 

**5.Warming is real, anthropogenic, and will cause extinction**
**Diebel 07** Terry **Deibel**, Professor of IR at National War College, 20__**07**__, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft” pg 387-389
Finally, __**there is one major existential threat**__ 
__**AND**__ 
__**the continued existence of life on this planet.**__ 

**6.Failure to act now leads to runaway warming that collapses civilization – controlling the rate of warming prevents irreversible tipping points in the form of sea level rise and global starvation**
**Brown 08,** Masters in AE from Maryland & Masters in Econ from Harvard, Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S **2008**
(Lester E. Brown, Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization [[http://www.earth-policy.org/books/pb3/PB3ch3_ss7%20accessed%206-27|http://www.earth-policy.org/books/pb3/PB3ch3_ss7 accessed 6-27]] tm )

In 2004, Stephen Pacala and Robert Socolow 
__**AND**__ 
__**could**__ begin to __**unravel**__ under these extreme stresses.

<span style="text-align: center;">__**Scenario 2 is Oil**__ </span>

**7.Oil dependence leads to interventionist wars that perpetuate US imperialism**
**Collina 5****.** Tom Z. Collina, Executive Director of 20-20Vision; testimony in front of Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs United States Senate “Oil Dependence and U.S. Foreign Policy: Real Dangers, Realistic Solutions”. October 19, 2005 [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2005_hr/051020-collina.pdf]]
More conflicts in the Middle East America imports 
__**AND**__ 
__**that goal by reducing our dependence on oil.**__

**8.Oil dependence causes nuclear war with Russia and China** 
**Klare 4** (Klare, Michael. Author of Blood and Oil: The Dangers and Consequences of America's Growing Dependency on Imported Petroleum, expert on oil dependency as professor of Peace and World Security Studies and director of the Five College Program in Peace and World Security Studies. Interview with the Carnegie Council on September 30, 2004. [[http://www.carnegiecouncil.org/resources/transcripts/5017.html]]) 
This is troubling enough, but to conclude 
__**AND**__ 
__**as we continue to depend on this substance.**__ 


<span style="text-align: center;">__**Contention 5 is Solvency**__ </span>

<span style="text-align: center;">**1.Space-based solar power can be ready in less than a decade; a demonstration on the ISS would spur private-sector development.** </span>
**Morring 07** (Frank, “NSSO Backs Space Solar Power”, Oct 11, 2007, Aviation Weekly, http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=space&id=news/solar101107.xml&headline=NSSO%20Backs%20Space%20Solar%20Power”

Collecting solar power in space and beaming it 
AND 
of Mars under NASA's vision for space exploration.

**2.The private sector still lacks a proof of concept of SBSP; a demonstration on the ISS would catalyze commercial interest in the technology.** 
**Boyle 07** (Alan, “Power from space? Pentagon likes the idea”, 10/12/2007, MSNBC, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/21253268/ns/technology_and_science-space/t/power-space-pentagon-likes-idea/)
The report's roadmap calls for ground-based 
AND 
"It can't be just a marginal improvement."

**3.Government R&D is key to successful SPS**
**Friedman 11** George Friedman**,** is an American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor, 2011 “The Next Decade: Where We’ve Been and Where We’re Going”,http://books.google.com/books?id=y5plTzPTw8YC&pg=PA235&dq=Space+based+solar+power&hl=en&ei=99cDTq3bHIfEgAfTypSODg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CGAQ6AEwCQ#v=onepage&q=Space%20based%20solar%20power&f=false, Date accessed June 23, 2011
At the same time __we must prepare for__ 
AND 
t-followed by great dreams quietly expressed.




=Negative= 
**China bashing debate coming now – congressional action inflames relations and guts the economy**
**Palmer 8-11** Doug Palmer, Aug 11, 2011 “Wider trade gap could propel China currency bill,” Reuters, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/08/11/us-china-usa-trade-idUSTRE77A5N220110811
__**Just before Congress adjourned**__ …__**on it is another matter,"**__ he said.

**{****Plan saps political capital}**

**Political capital is key to blocking pushes for currency revaluation**
**Palmer 9-2** Doug Palmer, Journalist, “Analysis: Obama's trade legacy in a crucible this fall,” Reuters, Sep 2, 2011, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902
__**Democrats like**__ House …__**capital to block it.**__

**Chinese trade conflicts is the most likely scenario for military conflict.**
**Landy 7** Ben Landy, Director of Research and Strategy at the Atlantic Media Company, publisher of the Atlantic Monthly, National Journal, and Government Executive magazines, April 3, 2007, [[http://chinaredux.com/2007/04/03/protectionism-and-war/%22%20%5Cl%20%22comments|http://chinaredux.com/2007/04/03/protectionism-and-war/#comments]],)
__**The greatest threat for … increase the likelihood of conflict**__–far more than increases in military budgets and anti-satellite tests.
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]