[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
[[toc]]
==USSG AFF== 
===[[#Affirmative-USSG AFF-Plans]]Plans=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its civil space situational awareness by creating a Space Guard.**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Text: The United States federal government should develop Space Guard civil space situational awareness. </span>**

===[[#Affirmative-USSG AFF-1AC-RR]]1AC=== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Observation One: Debris</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">All Qualified experts agree – Orbital debris is at the tipping point – failure to control it collapses our space assets</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">The Telegraph 2k11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(“Space so full of junk that a satellite collision could destroy communications on Earth,” February, pg online @[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8295546/Space-so-full-of-junk-that-a-satellite-collision-could-destroy-communications-on-Earth.html]]ghs-bprp)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Space so full of junk that a satellite collision could destroy </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> the World Cup next month in Johannesburg."</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Unchecked debris causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">**Scheetz, Law at Georgetown, 6** (Lori, J.D. Candidate at Georgetown University Law Center, “Infusing Environmental Ethics into the Space Weapons Dialouge,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, Fall, 19 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 57)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Despite the fact that the Outer Space Treaty, the centerpiece of the </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> forever, encasing our entire planet in a shell of whizzing debris that will thereafter make space near the Earth highly hazardous for peaceful as well as military purposes." n90 </span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">The Plan advances a space legal regime in the short term and builds global support to solve debris and collisions</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Hays 2k10</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(Peter, PhD and director of the U.S. Air Force Institute for National Security Studies, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower” December 13, 2010, NDU Press Chapter 28, pg online @ [[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html]]]</span>greenhill-au)
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Most spacefaring actors understand the merits and overall value of the OST </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> operators, even if they provide faulty data that results in a collision, so long as they operate in good faith, exercise reasonable care, and follow established procedures. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Space law prevents extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Hays 2k10</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(Peter, PhD and director of the U.S. Air Force Institute for National Security Studies, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower” December 13, 2010, NDU Press Chapter 28, pg online @ [[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html]]]greenhill-au)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Other impediments to further developing space law are </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> needed to improve our odds for survival.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">And, a Cooperative Space Situational Awareness Effort Results Active Debris Removal – U.S. Efforts are Critical</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Weeden 2k9</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(Brian Weeden, Bachelor's in Science (B.S.) in Electrical Engineering from Clarkson University and a Masters in Science (M.S) in Space Studies from the University of North Dakota. He is also a graduate of the International Space University Space Studies Program, has over a decade of professional technical and operations experience in the national and international space security arena. His wealth of technical knowledge has established him as a thought leader for providing critical analysis that supports development of space policy on a global scale. Prior to joining the Foundation, Mr. Weeden served nine years on active duty as an officer in the United States Air Force working in space and ICBM operations. As part of U.S. Strategic Command's Joint Space Operations Center (JSpOC), Captain Weeden directed the orbital analyst training program and developed tactics, techniques and procedures for improving space situational awareness. In his current role as Technical Advisor, Mr. Weeden conducts research on global space situational awareness, space traffic management, protection of space assets, and prevention of conflict in space. “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...,” SAT Magazine, pg online @ [[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455]] </span>ghs-ef)
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">More recently, we have also learned that the space </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> around them and relying on the “big space” theory to ensure that no collisions happen.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">And developing space law resulting from the plan enables protection of intellectual property for debris removal mechanisms </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Weeden 2k11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(Brian, Bachelor's in Science (B.S.) in Electrical Engineering from Clarkson University and a Masters in Science (M.S) in Space Studies from the University of North Dakota. He is also a graduate of the International Space University Space Studies Program, has over a decade of professional technical and operations experience in the national and international space security arena, February 1, 2011, “Overview of the legal and policy challenges of orbital debris removal” Space Policy 27 (2011) 38e43, pg online @ sciencedirectgreenhill-au)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">3.8. Removal of debris objects raises signiﬁcant concerns with regard to </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">and ConﬁdenceBuilding Measures (TCBMs) for ADR which will reduce the chances for misperceptions and mistrust.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Space IPR Spills over terrestrially </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Brisibe 2k6</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(Tare, PhD and Legal Services and International Cooperation Head at the Universtity Of Mississippi School of Law, JOURNAL OF SPACE Law, “Outer Space Activities and Intellectual Property Protection in Nigeria” Volume 32, No. 2, Winter 2006, pg online</span>greenhill-au)
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">It has been argued that the simultaneously national and international </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> this article and is not addressed.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Domestic and International IPR enforcement restores competitiveness and makes trade effective </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Reuters 2k10</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(“US says protecting IP rights a top trade priority” April 26, 2010, pg online @ [[[http://www.theglobalipcenter.com/news/us-says-protecting-ip-rights-top-trade-priority]]]greenhill-au)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">"The United States has long been acknowledged as a global leader in </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> of the Chambers' Global Intellectual Property Center.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Trade is inevitable – it’s only a question of whether it’s cooperative or not – US trade leadership is vital to prevent trading blocs that result in global conflicts </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">**Bergsten**, Director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics & former Assistant Secretary for International Affairs at the Treasury Department, 9-27-**97** (C. Fred, “America and the World,” The Economist, [[http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/print.cfm?doc=pub&ResearchID=291]]</span>arnav-kejriwal)
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Third, American leadership has been crucial in assuring the compatibility, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> and his predecessors, without jolting confidence in its staying power in other respects.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Spicer 96</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(British Member of Parliament and Chairperson of the European Research Group, Michael, The Challenge from the East and the Rebirth of the West, New York: St. Martin’s Press, p. 121)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">The choice facing the West today is much the same as that which faced the </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">, stability will be at a premium in the years ahead.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Situational Awareness is at a CRITICAL Stage Now – An International Regime is Necessary but lack of a new dedicated civilian organization means efforts will fail</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Bennett 2k10</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, pg online @[[http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf]] ghs-ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Recent events have underscored the reality that current means of </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> as a collaborative partner.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">And, Only the Plan Can Create an Effective SSA Program</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Bennett 2k10</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, pg online @[[http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf]] </span>ghs-ef)
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">3. A US Space Guard (USSG). Several commentators have proposed the </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> Commandant of the Space Guard.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">And, a U.S.-Led cooperative SSA establishes a legal regime that prevents miscalc and engenders international cooperation </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Weeden 2k9</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(Brian Weeden, is a technical consultant for the Secure World Foundation and former U.S. Air Force officer with a background in space surveillance and ICBM operations. “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...,” SAT Magazine, pg online @ [[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455]] ghs-ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">SSA as the Foundation International civil space situational awareness is a </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">political will on behalf of both private industry and States to come together and create what is truly needed for the benefit of all humankind</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Observation Two: Air Force Credibility – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">First, the Air Force is Overstretched Now – a new focus on warfighting is critical to air power and deterrence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Moseley 2k7</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(18th Chief of Staff @ US Air Force [General T. Michael Moseley, “The Nation’s Guardians; America’s 21st Century Air Force,” CSAF White Paper, 29 Dec 2007, pg. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA477488&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">No modern war has been won without air superiority. No future war will </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> is essential to victory. Pg. 2-9 </span>1ac


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">And, Space Services Gut the Air Force’s Warfighting Mission and stunts its transition to aerospace power – re-balancing priorities is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">McKinley 2k</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley (BA, Moorhead State University; MS, Troy State University; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies) is commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron, Peterson AFB, Colorado, which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. Prior to assuming command, she was the deputy director of the commander’s action group at AFSPC. A graduate of Squadron Officer School and Air Command and Staff College, Colonel McKinley has published articles in Aviation Week and Space Technology, Space News, and several symposia proceedings, She has also been a guest lecturer at Air War College and space war games. “Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” Aerospace Power Journal - Spring 2000, pg online @[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm]] ghs-ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Organizations are created to accomplish a unique set of missions. As </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> ranges are clear examples. But as the missions extend beyond the organization's raison d'être, cultural tensions will and must emerge. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">And, the plan re-balances Air Force priorities and ensures space services get their own funding and support agency</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">McKinley 2k</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley (BA, Moorhead State University; MS, Troy State University; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies) is commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron, Peterson AFB, Colorado, which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. Prior to assuming command, she was the deputy director of the commander’s action group at AFSPC. A graduate of Squadron Officer School and Air Command and Staff College, Colonel McKinley has published articles in Aviation Week and Space Technology, Space News, and several symposia proceedings, She has also been a guest lecturer at Air War College and space war games. “Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” Aerospace Power Journal - Spring 2000, pg online @[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm]] </span>ghs-ef)
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">The United States Space Guard Looking at the space side of that </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> aerospace title. On a larger scale, the nation will have reduced the size of its force structure while improving its ability to exploit space for national benefit.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">And, an Effective Air Force Prevents Conflicts Over India-Pakistan, South China Sea and Deters CBW Attacks</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Tellis et al ‘98</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(Ashley, Ashley J., Senior Political Scientist at RAND specializing in South Asian Security, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, pg online @ [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf]] ghs-ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">REGIONAL CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR THE </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">emerging in the form of ballistic and cruise missiles, information warfare, WMD, and possibly even the revolution in military affairs.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Indo-Pak nuclear war wipes out the plan – computer models prove </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">GSN 10 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(Global Security Newswire, “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate World Population, Report Warns,”[[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100315_4193.php]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Computer modeling suggests a nuclear exchange between </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> Sciences Department at the University of Colorado at Boulder.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">And, South China Sea war draws in major powers and escalates</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Waldron 97</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(Arthur, professor of Strategy and Policy at the Naval War College Commentary, 3-1,[[http://www.aei.org/publications/pubID.7442,filter.all/pub_detail.asp]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Then there is Southeast Asia, which, having weathered the Vietnam war </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> states--Russia, or India, or Japan--or the United States. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">And, even a RISK of our scenario triggers World War III</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Knight Ridder 2k </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(Jonathon S. Landay, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts”, 3-11, L/N)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Few if any experts think China and Taiwan, North Korea and South </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> no institutionalized security mechanism in place. There are elements for potential disaster."</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Observation Four: Solvency </span>**


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">And, it establishes a Space Guard built on Civilian SSA – that spills-over to shift functions from other agencies</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Bennett 2k11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(James C. Bennett, Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, the author of The Anglosphere Challenge, has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades “Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space,” pg online @[[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]] ghs-ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">3. New responsibilities. In addition to these transferred functions, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> that are rooted in its unusual history. The agency’s scope of responsibilities, while still broad, would nevertheless be reduced sufficiently to alleviate its chronic span-of-control issues.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">And, funding trade-offs make this problem worse</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">McKinley 2k</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">(Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley (BA, Moorhead State University; MS, Troy State University; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies) is commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron, Peterson AFB, Colorado, which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. Prior to assuming command, she was the deputy director of the commander’s action group at AFSPC. A graduate of Squadron Officer School and Air Command and Staff College, Colonel McKinley has published articles in Aviation Week and Space Technology, Space News, and several symposia proceedings, She has also been a guest lecturer at Air War College and space war games. “Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” Aerospace Power Journal - Spring 2000, pg online @[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm]] </span>ghs-ef)
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Funding Tensions This cultural stress is exacerbated by a second area of </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> out the space services portion of its current responsibilities.</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2AC Disads</span>== 

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#USSG AFF-2AC Disads--2AC Obama Good Link Turns]]2AC Obama Good Link Turns</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">SSA is bipart</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Hitchens, 1-22-2K7 </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">(Theresa, Director of World Security Institute’s Center for Defense Information, “Space Issues in 2007,” Washington Roundtable on Science & Public Policy: Forum on National Security Space, [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/503.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">The title of my presentation is Securing Space: Protecting U.S. Interests – Preserving Freedom </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;"> are still needed. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">WINNERS WIN. </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">**Singer 9** (Jonathan -- senior writer and editor for MyDD. Singer is perhaps best known for his various interviews with prominent politicians. His interviews have included John Kerry, Walter Mondale, Bob Dole, Michael Dukakis, and George McGovern, Barack Obama, John Edwards, and Tom Vilsack. He has also also interviewed dozens of senatorial, congressional and gubernatorial candidates all around the country. In his writing, Singer primarily covers all aspects of campaigns and elections, from polling and fundraising to opposition research and insider rumors. He has been quoted or cited in this capacity by Newsweek, The New York Times, USA Today, The Politico, and others. My Direct Democracy, 3-3-09, [[http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">From the latest NBC News-Wall Street Journal survey: Despite the country's struggling economy and vocal opposition to some of his policies,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;"> ending the war in Iraq.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Plan has constituencies – they’ll sway congress </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Bennett 2k10</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">(James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, pg online @ [[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]] //ghs-ef)//</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">It is worth noting that the </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> they might nonetheless be able to help sway members of Congress.</span></span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Plan Framed as “defense cuts” – means it’s a win</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Bennett 2k10</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">(James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, pg online @ [[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]] </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ghs-ef)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">There are also ways in which </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;"> opposition to support.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2AC heidegger K</span>==== 



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their Framework causes endless death </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jarvis 2k</span>**(Darryl, Senior Lecturer in International Relations – University of Sydney, International Relations and the Challenge of Postmodernism, p. 128-9)
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">More is the pity that</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> such </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">irrational and obviously abstruse debate should</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> so o</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">ccupy us at a time of great global turmoil. </span>__




**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ontology and epistemology aren’t prior issues ---we should act based on best possible information.</span>**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Friedrich </span>**<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 12pt;">Kratochwil</span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, 20</span>**<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 12pt;">07</span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, Political Sciences @ European University Inst., “//Of False Promises and Good Bets: a Plea for a Pragmatic Approach to Theory Building//”, Journal of International Relations and Development</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Here </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">pragmatism seems to hold some promise for several reasons. First, as its most basic level it does not begin with ‘things’ or with ‘reason’ or thought, but with ‘acting’</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The alt’s focus on the Self produces an irresponsible disconnect from the public --- makes __mass atrocities__ inevitable </span>**
Lawrence J. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Biskowski 95</span>**, Professor of political theory and political economy at the University of Georgia, “Politics versus aesthetics: Arendt’s critiques of Nietzsche and Heidegger,” The Review of Politics, Vol. 57, No.1, 1995
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Although Arendt considered Heidegger to be perhaps the most important philosopher of the twentieth century, she always objected to the </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">political dangers and deformations inherent in</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> this emphasis on the self. </span>




**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">An “Ethical Relationship” is Impossible - An Obligation with One Other Ignores Other-Others - The Idea Ethics Creates the Reality of Remote Control Murder</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Martin </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hägglund</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, PhD Candidate in Comp. Lit @ Cornell, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">‘4</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Diacritics, “The Necessity of Discrimination: Disjoining Derrida and Levinas,” p. muse]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even if one disregards the theologico-patriarchal humanism in … in essentially precarious processes of negotiation</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Life outweighs --- Being-in-the-world __depends__ on the presence of others </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[--- if they’re dead, we can never determine our own ontology]</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bulley 4</span>**(Dan, PhD Candidate @ Department of Politics and International Studies--University of Warwick, "Ethics and Negotiation," www.lancs.ac.uk/fss/politics/events/aber/ethics%20and%20negotiation%20-%20bulley.doc)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Crucially an openness to justice cannot be an a priori good thing. Indeed, like the future, one can say it can only be “anticipated in the form of an absolute danger.” </span>




**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The uncompromising rejection of the management of nature would be an __environmental catastrophe__---the ethical ‘return to nature’ would ensure ecological eradication</span>**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Martin **Lewis,** environmental studies at Duke, **1992** (__Green Delusions,__ p. 10-11)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Radical environmentalism presents yet another threat to the earth in its unyielding opposition to the human management of nature</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>




**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alt fails --- public won’t sign on to a radical paradigm shift</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alyson C. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Flournoy</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Professor, University of Florida, Levin College of Law, Building an Environmental Ethic from the Ground Up, 27 Environs Envtl. L. & Pol'y J. 53, Fall, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2003</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**, LN**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Given this assumption, what is the relevance of environmental … warrants attention for reasons that I explore below. n45</span>**


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perm do both: The ambivalent nature of technology must be embraced in some forms to a progressive approach to being </span>

**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Andrew </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feenberg</span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, Chair of Philosophy and Technology at SFU. </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1996</span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. “From Essentialism to Constructivism: Philosophy of Technology at the Crossroads” http://www.agora.qc.ca/textes/feenberg.html</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">The idea of a "concrete technology," which includes human beings and nature in its very structure, contradicts the commonplace notion that technique "conquers" its objects. In Simondon's theory the most advanced forms of progress consist in the creation of complex synergies of technical and natural forces through advances that incorporate the wider contexts of human and environmental needs into the structure of technical systems. While there is no strictly technological imperative dictating such an approach, strategies of concretization could embrace these contexts as they do others in the course of technical development. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Where </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">these </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">contexts include environmental considerations</span>__**

**Calculative and technological thought is the only ethical option**
**Santilli 03** (Paul C. Santilli, Professor of Philosophy @ Siena College, 5/22/2003, “Radical Evil, Subjection, and Alain Badiou’s Ethic of the Truth Event” – World Congress of the International Society for Universal Dialogue,” http://www.isud.org/papers/pdfs/Santilli.pdf)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">From the standpoint of an ethics of subjection there is even something unnecessary or superfluous about the void of suffering in the subject bearers of evil. </span>

=Negative=