= = 
aff - [[mailto:kayceeantosiak@gmail.com|kayceeantosiak@gmail.com]] neg - [[mailto:puja.gubbi@gmail.com|puja.gubbi@gmail.com]]
[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Stanford 1AC== 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention One: Inherency</span>
=== === 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Status quo is not effective at detection – asteroids are getting through – more resources needed</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’neill 8</span>
== == 
**<span style="color: black;">(</span>**<span style="color: black;">Jen, B.A. from St. Mary’s College, NYC department of education, findingDulcinea, “Surprise Asteroid Underlines Need for Early Detection System” Dulcinea Media Inc., 12-29-2008**,** </span><span style="color: black;">[[http://www.findingdulcinea.com/news/science/2008/December/Surprise-Asteroid-Underlines-Need-for-Early-Detection-System.html]]</span><span style="color: black;">) </span>
== == 
<span style="color: black;">In October, </span><span class="underline">……</span><span style="color: black;"> The odds of a collision are 1/6250 according to astronomers, and although that’s only a min.</span>
== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA underfunded now for NEO detection programs</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ASEB 10</span>
== == 
<span style="color: black;">(Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board, National Research Council, (</span><span style="color: black;">[[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842|Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies]]</span><span style="color: black;">”, The National Academies Press, 2010, </span><span style="color: black;">[[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]]</span><span style="color: black;">) </span>
== == 
**<span style="color: black;">Finding: </span>**<span class="underline">….. budget.</span>
== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA’s NEO detection programs are underfunded and piecemeal – status quo failing to provide comprehensive early warning detection</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Easterbrook 8</span>
== == 
<span style="color: black;">(Gregg, senior editor of The New Republic, “The Sky Is Falling,” The Atlantic, June 2008, http://www.lsst.org/files/docs/TheSkyisFalling-AtlanticMonthly.pdf) [JHegyi14]</span>
== == 
<span class="underline">NASA …..</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> system.</span>
== == 

== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its efforts to monitor near-Earth objects.</span>
== == 
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention Two: Cooperation</span>=== 
== == 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The development of planetary defense requires national and international cooperation – plan is the first step</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Borchers 9</span>
== == 
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Brent, Major, USAF, “Should the USAF be involved in Planetary Defense?”, Air Command and Staff College Air University, 2009, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ada539693.pdf&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>
== == 
The previous chapters list a few of the problems that need to be worked out .....<span class="underline"> the endeavor.</span>
== == 
== == 

== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The plan bolsters international science diplomacy – that’s key to solve</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shapiro et al 10</span>
== == 
(Irwin, Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Faith Vilas, MMT Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, AZ, Michael A O’Hearn, University of Maryland, College Park, Vice Chair, Andrew Cheng, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Frank Culberson, Jr, Orbital Science Corporation, David Jewitt, UC- Los Angeles, Stephen Mackwell, Lunar and Planetary Institute, H. Jay Melosh, Purdue University, Joseph H. Rothenberg, Universal Space Network, Committee to Review Near Earth Objects and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, Space Studies Board Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, The National Academies Press, 2010, http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~planets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf)
== == 
<span class="underline">Many scientists, …… ensure preparedness.</span>
== == 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. scientific diplomacy is key to cooperative threat reduction and crisis management including biological weapons proliferation, food security, and climate change</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federoff 8</span>
== == 
<span style="color: black;">(Dr. Nina Fedoroff, Science and Technology Adviser to the Secretary of State and the Administrator of USAID, TESTIMONY BEFORE THE HOUSE SCIENCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON RESEARCH AND SCIENCE EDUCATION HEARING ON SCIENCE DIPLOMACY, 2008, http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/040208_fedoroff.pdf)</span>
== == 
<span class="underline">Science by its ….. by promoting and implementing best scientific practices as a means to enhance security, increase global partnerships, and create sustainability.</span>
== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bioweapons cause extinction</span>
== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Ochs 2</span>
== == 
(MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park (Richard, “Biological Weapons Must be Abolished Immediately,” Jun 9, [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]])
== == 
Of all the weapons …. The game is over. If patriotism would extinguish humanity, then patriotism is the highest of all crimes.
== == 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even a small increase in food prices kill half the global population</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 5</span>
== == 
(Lester, Outgrowing the Earth: The Food Security Challenge in an Age of Falling Water Tables and Rising Temperatures, 2005, [[http://www.earthpolicy.org/devcart/index.php?target=products&product_id=29781]])
== == 
<span class="underline">Many Americans … ofconcern.</span>
== == 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Science and tech are key to diplomatic relation with North Korea and the Middle East </span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pickering and Agre, 10</span>
== == 
<span style="color: black;">(Sign On San Diego, “Science diplomacy aids conflict reduction” Feb 20, 2010, </span><span style="color: black;">[[http://www.signonsandiego.com/news/2010/feb/20/science-diplomacy-aids-conflict-reduction/]]</span><span style="color: black;">)</span>
== == 
Now, <span class="underline">science diplomacy …..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">essential.</span>
== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. and North Korea diplomacy is key, especially now, to maintain Korean stability</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AP 11</span>
== == 
(Times of India, “US urges stable transition in North Korea,” 12/20/11, http://articles.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/2011-12-20/rest-of-world/30537288_1_dprk-reclusive-communist-nation-north-korea)
== == 
WASHINGTON: <span class="underline">The Obama administration….</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">but were hopeful that calm would prevail, despite the test of a short-range missile by the North just hours after the announcement of Kim's death.</span>
== == 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Korean instability risks every impact and causes extinction</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hayes and Green 10</span>
== == 
<span style="color: black;">(Peter, Professor of International Relations – Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology and Director – Nautilus Institute, and Michael Hamel, Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, Nautilus Institute Special Report, 1-5, http://www.nautil us.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)</span>
== == 
<span style="color: black;">At worst, </span><span class="underline">….</span><span style="color: black;"> from the international community.</span>
== == 
== == 
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention Three: Small Asteroids Kill </span>== 
== == 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A small asteroid strike would cause worldwide famine</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jones 8</span>
== == 
(Thomas D., staff writer, 2008 Aerospace America, October, “Asteroid deflection: Planning for the inevitable,” 2008, [[http://www.aiaa.org/aerospace/images/articleimages/pdf/View%20from%20Here1.pdf]])
== == 
Of course, <span class="underline">E….worldwide famine.</span>
== == 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Famines are the root cause of global conflicts – their war scenarios ignore the underlying motivations for war</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cribb 10</span>
== == 
(Julian, University of California, 2010. New York Times, August 24, 2010. ‘The Coming Famine’ http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/25/books/excerpt-the-coming-famine.html?pagewanted=4&_r=1)
== == 
<span class="underline">The character of human conflict has </span><span style="color: black;">a… and fell.</span>
== == 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">An asteroid strike would kill animal species</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chapman 04</span>
== == 
(Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)
== == 
I have argued [59] that <span class="underline">…. record.</span>
== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Species extinction risks human extinction</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">California Academy of Sciences 04</span>
== == 
(Last modified 8/21/04, http://www.calacademy.org/research/library/biodiv.htm)
== == 
Currently, more than 10,000 … emotionally, we lose the unique beauty, and the unique spirit, which mankind has associated with that life form.
== == 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A hit on the ocean is no safer – it would devastate world ecosystems</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Koplow 5</span>
== == 
(Justin L., J.D., Georgetown University Law Center, Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, Winter 2005, 17 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 273; Lexis)
== == 
Yet, more likely, as the …<span class="underline"> loss of life.</span> n16
== == 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our case outweighs your disads: a single asteroid strike is capable of doing more damage than all the nuclear weapons in the existence…combined</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kunich 97</span>
== == 
(Lieutenant colonel John C., Staff Judge Advocate, 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base, Colorado, Air Force Law Review, 41 A.F. L. Rev. 119; Lexis)
== == 
If you were standing … <span class="underline">of TNT</span>. n4
== == 
== == 
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention Four: Solvency</span>== 
== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Only a space-based survey and ground telescope can detect incoming asteroids quickly enough to enable deflection</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arentz et al 10</span>
== == 
(Robert, Harold Reitsma and Roger Linfield, Ball Aerospace and Technology Corp, and Jeffrey Van Cleve, SETI Institute @ NASA Ames Research Center, “NEO Survey: An efficient search for Near-Earth-Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-Like Orbit” //Space Propulsion and Energy Sciences International Forum//, 2010, http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/SPESIF2010_Arentz-etal_NEO-Survey.pdf)
== == 
<span class="underline">The key to mitigation is discovery. …. set about NEOs for future work.</span>
== == 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Long warnings times allow successful deflection strategies – even large asteroids can be diverted</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shapiro et al 10</span>
== == 
(<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Irwin, Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Faith Vilas, MMT Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, AZ, Michael A O’Hearn, University of Maryland, College Park, Vice Chair, Andrew Cheng, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Frank Culberson, Jr, Orbital Science Corporation, David Jewitt, UC- Los Angeles, Stephen Mackwell, Lunar and Planetary Institute, H. Jay Melosh, Purdue University, Joseph H. Rothenberg, Universal Space Network, Committee to Review Near Earth Objects and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, Space Studies Board Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, The National Academies Press, 2010, http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~planets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf)</span>
== == 
<span class="underline">With the same warning time of 40 years as discussed for the gravity tractor, one could launch a series of perhaps ten …</span>
== == 
<span class="underline">further study.</span>
== == 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Only NASA can do the plan</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fortuno 7</span>
== == 
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(HR 3737: To provide for the National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory- bill introduced before the US Congress 10/3/2007)</span></span>
== == 
(1) <span class="underline">Arecibo Observatory is ….</span>
== == 
<span class="underline">near-Earth objects.</span>
== == 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">United States is key – we are the only country with a program large enough to scope to effectively detect</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NAS 9</span>
== == 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">(National Academy of Sciences, “National Research Council, Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies: Interim Report,” August 2009, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/378691main_NRC-Aug12InterimReport.pdf]]</span>)
== == 
<span class="underline">Despite expressions of … program.</span>
== == 
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. unilateral action is key to spurring international cooperation and coalition-building for more planetary defense initiatives</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barrett 6</span>
== == 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">(</span>Scott – professor and director of International Policy @ School of Advanced International Studies @ Johns Hopkins University and Distinguished Visiting Fellow @ Center for the Study of Globalization @ Yale University, Chicago Journal of International Law, 2006, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.allbusiness.com/legal/4069484-1.html]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 13pt;">)</span>
== == 
But can we expect that … <span class="underline">contributed anyway. The US would have wanted to share the burden and other countries would have recognized their obligation to pay their fair share.</span>
== == 

== == 

== == 
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention Five: Probability</span>== 
== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Unlike their speculative disadvantages, it is statistically inevitable the Earth will be struck by asteroids and comets</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chapman 4</span>
== == 
(Clark R., Southwest Research Institute, March 4, 2004, [[http://www.b612foundation.org/papers/Chapman_hazard_EPSL.pdf]].)
== == 
Even after discovery of …<span class="underline"> every time.</span>
== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Policymakers have a responsibility to utilize the precautionary principle when making a decision about asteroid policy – one must err on the size of magnitude even it the probability is proven small – default to worst-case predicitons</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seamone 04</span>
== == 
(<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Evan R., J.D., University of Iowa College of Law; M.P.P. and B.A., University of California, Los Angeles. Evan Seamone is an attorney and a Judge Advocate in the U.S. Army stationed at Fort Polk, Louisiana, “The Precautionary Principle as the Law of Planetary Defense: Achieving the Mandate to Defend the Earth Against Asteroid and Comet Impacts While There is Still Time,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, Vol. 17, Iss. 1; pg. 1, 23 pgs, Fall 2004, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[https://litigation-essentials.lexisnexis.com/webcd/app?action=DocumentDisplay&crawlid=1&doctype=cite&docid=17]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">+Geo.+Int'l+Envtl.+L.+Rev.+1&srctype=smi&srcid=3B15&key=a2a4327cc80f04b8f9c09805718305b8) </span>
== == 
<span class="underline">The precautionary principle ….</span>force.
== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In particular, the Apophis asteroid presents a unique danger to Earth in the next 25 years</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson 10</span>
== == 
(Les, Deputy Manager, NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center, PARADISE REGAINED: THE REGREENING OF EARTH, 2010, 137.)
== == 
<span class="underline">According to ….</span>millions.
== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">By 2020, we will face more than 500 potentially hazardous NEOs</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jones 8</span>
== == 
(Thomas D. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Jones, 2008</span>, staff writer, 2008. “Asteroid deflection: Planning for the inevitable” Aerospace America, October, Accessed April 12, 2011 at [[http://www.aiaa.org/aerospace/images/articleimages/pdf/]] View%20from%20Here1.pdf)
== == 
AS NASA’s ….<span class="underline"> more than 5,000!</span>
== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There is a high risk of an asteroid collision that could end life on the planet: previous assumptions of a low probability are fundamentally flawed</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Easterbrook 8</span>
== == 
(Gregg, fellow at the Brookings Institution), 2008. The Atlantic. “The Sky Is Falling.” Retrieved
== == 
April 12, 2011 at [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807/]].)
== == 
These <span class="underline">….. end life on Earth.</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Investigation of the Kuiper Belt has just begun, but there appear to be substantially more asteroids in this region than in the asteroid belt, which may need a new name.</span>
== == 

== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Probability of an asteroid hitting the Earth this century is nearly 100%</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bekey 9</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ivan, International Academy of Astronautics), 2009, Dealing with the Threat to Earth From Asteroids and Comets, accessed April 12, 2011 at [[http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups%20/SG%20Commission|http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups /SG%20Commission]] %203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)</span>
== == 
4) <span class="underline">45 ….</span>
== == 

== == 

== == 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif;">Golden Desert 1AC</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention One: Collisions</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Increase in fragmentation makes space impassable, there are no programs to remove debris in the squo, and the problem won’t solve itself.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Wilder 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Benjamin, Lieutenant Commander, United States Navy, B.S., University of South Alabama, Naval Postgraduate School, __Thesis for a Master of Science in Physics at the Naval Postgraduate School__, //Power Beaming, Orbital Debris Removal, And Other Space Applications Of A Ground Based Free Electron Laser//, March 2010, [[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada518696.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Considering the alarming rate of orbital debris generation, the era of mankind’s open and relatively </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">.......</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> Project Orion. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The ‘tipping point’ for space debris has been reached – there is enough orbital debris to cause the cascade effect</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Peralta 11</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Eyder, NPR reporter, NPR, “Space Debris Has Reached A ‘Tipping Point’, 9/1/11, http://www.npr.org/blogs/thetwo-way/2011/09/01/140114894/study-space-debris-has-reached-a-tipping-point?ft=1&f=1001) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The National Research Council </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=13244|released a report]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> today that ……….</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">sensitive technology. </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The report recommends that NASA work through the diplomatic issues along with the U.S. State Department</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The cascade effect would destroy satellite capabilities</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ansdell</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="cite" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">2010</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Megan, second year graduate student in the Master in International Science and Technology Program at the George Washington University’s Elliot School of International Affairs, “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment”, [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">There are currently hundreds of</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> ………</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">losing access to space would seriously impede the ability of the United </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">S</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">to be successful in future conﬂicts</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Dolman 2006, 165)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The United States federal government should substantially increase space debris removal using ElectroDynamic Debris Eliminators beyond the Earth’s mesosphere. </span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention Two: Miscalc</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Russia has suspicions because of the 2008 US semi-ASAT test – proves miscalc potential.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">BBC News 08</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(February 17, 2008, “US spy satellite plan ‘a cover,’” http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/7248995.stm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Russia has accused the US </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">……..</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">but this had never before merited such "extraordinary measures".</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris risks false alarms and Russian miscalc—leading to nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lewis 4</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Jeffrey, Postdoctoral Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Jeffrey, Worked In the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, What if Space Were Weaponized? July, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">This is the second of two scenarios that consider how </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. space weapons might create incentives for America’s opponents to behave in dangerous ways</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">. ………</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">of such weapons is corrosive to the confidence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Even if Russia didn’t immediately miscalculate, the event would inspire mistrust that escalates – the mere perception causes a crisis</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Coffelt 5</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Colonel @ US Airforce, space operator (Christopher A., “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95 [[http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Those that operate satellite systems and are familiar with space operations know the difficulties in determining the exact cause of many satellite malfunctions or “anomalies …….</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">that may have serious, negative, unintended consequences that make it harder for the us to protect its own systems and access to space.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">US-Russia war is an existential risk to humanity</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Bostrom 2</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Nick, PhD, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">………</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Even a limited miscalculation scenario would cause extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Helfand and Pastore 9</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., ‘9 – Past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility. “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat,” 3-31, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">.)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Since the end of the Cold War, many have acted as though the danger of nuclear war has ended. It has not ……</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The ready alert status of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention Three: Latin America</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Space debris destroys crucial assets and collapses the military – immediately invites global aggression and war</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Imburgia 11</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Lieutenant Colonel Joseph S. Imburgia is a Judge Advocate in the United States Air Force and is presently </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">assigned as a legal exchange officer to the Directorate of Operations and International Law, Defence Legal, Australian Defence Force, Canberra, Australia. He is a member of the Tennessee and the Supreme Court of the United States bars, and he is a member of the Australian and New Zealand Society of International Law, 4/4/11, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk”)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">These gloomy prognostications about the threats to our space environment should be troubling to Americans.</span>..
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">the preservation of these space capabilities should also be vital.</span>

These capabilities are vital to UAV’s
Defense-Update 9
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(2009, “RQ-1A/MQ-1 Predator UAV”, Defense-Update, [[http://defense-update.com/products/p/predator.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The USAF preferred to operate...Ku-b</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">and satellite data links</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">.</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Without UAVs Caribbean narcoterrorism would run rampant because the drug cartel funds the terrorism</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;"> Purdy 08</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Ellen, director, Joint Ground Robotics Enterprise, within the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, and is responsible for oversight and funding of ground robotics technology development, Robotics, “Increasing Role of Robots in National Security,” May-June 2008, http://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/docs/articles/the_increasing_role_of_robots_in_national_security.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">We are only at the beginning of what</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">and harmed by insurgents.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The U.S. wants to stop a Latin American terrorist attack</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sullivan 09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Mark P., Specialist in Latin American Affairs, “Latin America: Terrorism Issues,” 7/14/09, http://books.google.com/books?id=Tk17UnyZf3sC&pg=PP2&lpg=PP2&dq=terrorism+%22latin+america%22+bioweapons&source=bl&ots=I2AB65Tfhw&sig=1GgLdc_pnXs55N2V_8VqSAMuGJ4&hl=en&sa=X&ei=HV4rT4-VNLGGiQKf0eTaCg&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAg#v=onepage&q=weapons&f=false)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">In recent years, U.S. concerns</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">other such extremist groups.</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">The impact is bioweapons and LNG attacks</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> Flynn and Bryan 01</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Stephen, Senior Fellow @ CFR and Commander in US Coast Guard, and Anthony, Dir. North-South Center’s Caribbean Program, “Terrorism, Porous Borders, and Homeland Security: The Case for U.S.-Caribbean Cooperation” October 21, 2001, pg online @ CFR)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Terrorist acts...national borders.</span>



<span style="font-size: 16px;">LNG attacks cause extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> Lovins and Lovins 01</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Amory B. and L. Hunter, “Brittle Power Energy Strategy for National Security,” 2001 [[http://www.rmi.org/images/other/EnergySecurity/S82-03_BrPwrParts123.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">LNG is less than half...Hiroshima bombs.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">So do bioweapons</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ochs 2</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park (Richard, “Biological Weapons Must be Abolished Immediately,” Jun 9, [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically..., then patriotism is the highest of all crimes.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">UAV’s are also the critical determinant of Latin American stability – loss of capability will collapse the region into instability</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ballvé 10</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(Marcelo Ballvé, Jan. 27, 2010, New America Media, “Drug Surveillance Drones Frequent Flyers in Latin America”, [[http://www.ww4report.com/node/8390]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Drone aircraft are increasingly engaged .... Inacio "Lula" da Silva in December 2008.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">That empowers Brazilian hardliners</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Millett 2</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(Richard L., Ph.D., Senior Fellow at the North-South Center, Oppenheimer Chair of Modern Warfighting Strategy at the U.S. Marine Corps University, Professor Emeritus of History at Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville, Oct. Strategic Studies Institute, Colombia's Conflicts: The Spillover Effects of a Wider War)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">While the spillover of Colombia’s conflicts has \... Panamanian security apparatus, are also obstacles which will be difficult to overcome.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Nuclear war</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Schulz, 2k</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(Donald E., Ph.D., Chair of Political Science at Cleveland State U., fmr. Research Professor of National Security at the Strategic Studies Institute of the US Army College, March 2k. Strategic Studies Institute, The United States and Latin America: Shaping an Elusive Future)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Until recently, the primary U.S. concern ... Brazilian border provoked an angry response from many high-ranking Brazilian officers. 57</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Instability alone causes extinction</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Manwaring 05</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, VENEZUELA’S HUGO CHÁVEZ, BOLIVARIAN SOCIALISM, AND ASYMMETRIC WARFARE, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The Issue of State Failure. - President ... peace, and prosperity.65</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention Four: Solvency</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">LEO collisions must be addressed first—most probable collisions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Pearson 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">President of STAR, Inc., a small business in Mount Pleasant, SC he founded in 1998 that has developed aircraft and spacecraft technology under contracts to Air Force, NASA, DARPA, and NIAC, Mr. Pearson has degrees in engineering and geology, and is the author of nearly 100 technical articles, including invited articles for //Encyclopaedia Britannica// and //New Scientist//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(Jerome Pearson,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> //14 January 2010.; Accessed 6/20/11; “ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR”;// Star Technology and Research, Inc. USA; http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Space debris …..</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> LEO should be addressed first. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">EDDE is the best solution—cheapest and propellantless, experiments verify</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Pearson 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">President of STAR, Inc., a small business in Mount Pleasant, SC he founded in 1998 that has developed aircraft and spacecraft technology under contracts to Air Force, NASA, DARPA, and NIAC, Mr. Pearson has degrees in engineering and geology, and is the author of nearly 100 technical articles, including invited articles for //Encyclopaedia Britannica// and //New Scientist//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(Jerome Pearson,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> //14 January 2010.; Accessed 6/20/11; “ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR”;// Star Technology and Research, Inc. USA; http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The most near-term and technically ……</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">lightweight nets to enfold and capture debris objects. The EDDE hardware is shown in Figure 4.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">If EDDE were hit, it still works or could safely de-orbit</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Pearson 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">President of STAR, Inc., a small business in Mount Pleasant, SC he founded in 1998 that has developed aircraft and spacecraft technology under contracts to Air Force, NASA, DARPA, and NIAC, Mr. Pearson has degrees in engineering and geology, and is the author of nearly 100 technical articles, including invited articles for //Encyclopaedia Britannica// and //New Scientist//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(Jerome Pearson,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> //14 January 2010.; Accessed 6/20/11; “ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR”;// Star Technology and Research, Inc. USA; http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Because there are many</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> ……</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">because of the eddy-current damping of their aluminum structure and the tendency of the gravitygradient force to align them vertically.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Only a few key pieces of junk need to be removed – that solves space debris</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Marks 08</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(October 11, 2008, Paul Marks, “Network-style attack could reduce the threat from space debris,” New Scientist Vol 199 Issue 2677, ebscohost)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">But alarmingly, Hugh Lewis and colleagues at ….</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">"</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">If we take out the crucial pieces of junk, the network will effectively be destroyed."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The US is key – others will only do something once the US does</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Dinerman 09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Taylor Dinerman, author and journalist, May 4, 2009, “Unilateral orbital cleanup,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1365/1)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">It is often claimed that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">……..</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">trying to figure out an effective response.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">ONLY the U.S. solves – international cooperation is difficult, the US has most of the debris, and the US would be hardest hit if it lost satellites</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Ansdell 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Megan, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]].) </span>
<span style="color: windowtext;">International cooperation in …..</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">could be employed to ensure other countries either join in the effort later on or pay appropriate fees to the United States for removal services.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Current shielding and maneuvers don’t solve debris collisions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Guterl 09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Fred Guterl, Newsweek, August 10, 2009, Vol 154 Issue 6/7, “Space Junk,” ebscohost)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The China debacle, followed ….</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">hunk of junk.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif;">**USC/Fullerton 1AC**</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention One: Inherency</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Increase in fragmentation makes space impassable, there are no programs to remove debris in the squo, and the problem won’t solve itself.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Wilder 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Benjamin, Lieutenant Commander, United States Navy, B.S., University of South Alabama, Naval Postgraduate School, __Thesis for a Master of Science in Physics at the Naval Postgraduate School__, //Power Beaming, Orbital Debris Removal, And Other Space Applications Of A Ground Based Free Electron Laser//, March 2010, [[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada518696.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Considering the alarming rate of orbital debris generation, the era of mankind’s open and relatively </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">.......</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> Project Orion. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The ‘tipping point’ for space debris has been reached – there is enough orbital debris to cause the cascade effect</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Peralta 11</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Eyder, NPR reporter, NPR, “Space Debris Has Reached A ‘Tipping Point’, 9/1/11, http://www.npr.org/blogs/thetwo-way/2011/09/01/140114894/study-space-debris-has-reached-a-tipping-point?ft=1&f=1001) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The National Research Council <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=13244|released a report]]</span> today that ……….</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">sensitive technology. </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The report recommends that NASA work through the diplomatic issues along with the U.S. State Department</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase space debris removal beyond the Earth’s mesosphere using the ElectroDynamic Debris Eliminator.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention Two: Hegemony</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The cascade effect would destroy satellite capabilities</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ansdell</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="cite" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">2010</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Megan, second year graduate student in the Master in International Science and Technology Program at the George Washington University’s Elliot School of International Affairs, “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment”, [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">There are currently hundreds of</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> ………</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">losing access to space would seriously impede the ability of the United </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">S</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">to be successful in future conﬂicts</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Dolman 2006, 165)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Position of satellites and increasing amount of debris in space threaten collisions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Butt and Black 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Samuel Black is a research associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center. Previously, he was a research assistant at the Center for Defense Information. He holds undergraduate degrees in government and politics and a graduate degree in public policy from the University of Maryland. Yousaf Butt is a staff scientist in the High-Energy Astrophysics Division at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics and is currently on leave at the National Academy of Sciences. Previously, he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-Ray Observatory Project and served as a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program. He holds a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysic, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientist, The Growing threat of Space Debris, April 2010; [[http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=5c1f1056-b59b-445d-a5ae-027b5c3b4aa4%40sessionmgr14&vid=18&hid=14]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The threat to satellites in low Earth ……</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">over the poles.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Securing satellites is critical to maintain our military and intelligence capabilities</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Imburgia 11</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Lieutenant Colonel Joseph S. Imburgia is a Judge Advocate in the United States Air Force and is presently </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">assigned as a legal exchange officer to the Directorate of Operations and International Law, Defence Legal, Australian Defence Force, Canberra, Australia. He is a member of the Tennessee and the Supreme Court of the United States bars, and he is a member of the Australian and New Zealand Society of International Law, 4/4/11, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk”)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">These gloomy prognostications</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> ………</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">of these space capabilities should also be vital. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Top experts confirm the military would collapse without satellites </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Johnson & Hudson 8</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. **NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">General Kevin P. </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Chilton, Commander of</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> United States …….</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">crucial advantages in the field.”6</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The U.S. wants to do space exploration now</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Wall 11</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Mike, Space.com senior writer, Space on msnbc.com, “Apollo astronauts to Congress: Bring back the space shuttles,” 9/22/11, www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44631718/ns/technology_and_science-space/t/apollo-astronauts-congress-bring-back-space-shuttles/+united+states+wants+to+do+space+missions&cd=2&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=firefox-a)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The United </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">S</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">desperately</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> ……….</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">and is the last man to leave footprints on the moon. [ Video: Bring the Shuttle Back, Cernan Says ]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris will preclude usage of space services and safety of space while creating a cloud of junk that stops all exploration</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Senechal 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Thierry, Policy Manager with the International Chamber of Commerce, __Papers on International Environmental Treaty-Making__, //Space Debris Pollution: A Convention Proposal//, 2010, [[http://www.pon.org/downloads/ien16.2.Senechal.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The time is right for addressing </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">……….</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The debris and the liability it may cause may also poison relations between major powers.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Space exploration key to US space supremacy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Dinerman 11</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Taylor Dinerman, 8-1-11. “How the End of NASA Affects US National Security,” Hudson</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Institute, [[http://www.hudson-ny.org/2299/nasa-us-national-security]].</span>
<span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Space exploration is</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> not only …..</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">agency succumbs to confusion and a lack of clear direction its ability to help keep America secure and prosperous will inevitably diminish.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Space supremacy is key to US hegemony</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> Stevens 7</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Robert J. Stevens – Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Lockheed Martin Corporation, summa cum laude graduate of Slippery Rock University, master's degree in engineering and management from the Polytechnic University of New York, with a Fairchild Fellowship, earned a master's degree in business administration from Columbia Business School, graduate of the Department of Defense Systems Management College Program Management, served in the United States Marine Corps, (Lockheed Martin, 4/10/2007, 23rd National Space Symposium, “The Next 50 Years of U.S. Space Leadership”, [[http://www.lockheedmartin.com/news/speeches/Next50YearsOfUSSpaceLeadership.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">This audience knows well that 50 ……</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">and find ourselves watching other nations’ dazzling achievements instead of our own. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">A strong military and American dominance are key to prevent global nuclear conflicts in every region of the world</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kagan 7</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">This is a good thing, and ….</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">American predominance into the future, no one should imagine that a reduction of American power or a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention Three: Miscalc</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Russia has suspicions because of the 2008 US semi-ASAT test – proves miscalc potential.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">BBC News 08</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(February 17, 2008, “US spy satellite plan ‘a cover,’” http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/7248995.stm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Russia has accused the US </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">……..</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">but this had never before merited such "extraordinary measures".</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris risks false alarms and Russian miscalc—leading to nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lewis 4</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Jeffrey, Postdoctoral Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Jeffrey, Worked In the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, What if Space Were Weaponized? July, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">This is the second of two scenarios that consider how </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. space weapons might create incentives for America’s opponents to behave in dangerous ways</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">. ………</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">of such weapons is corrosive to the confidence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Even if Russia didn’t immediately miscalculate, the event would inspire mistrust that escalates – the mere perception causes a crisis</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Coffelt 5</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Colonel @ US Airforce, space operator (Christopher A., “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95 [[http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Those that operate satellite systems and are familiar with space operations know the difficulties in determining the exact cause of many satellite malfunctions or “anomalies …….</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">that may have serious, negative, unintended consequences that make it harder for the us to protect its own systems and access to space.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">US-Russia war is an existential risk to humanity</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Bostrom 2</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Nick, PhD, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">………</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Even a limited miscalculation scenario would cause extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Helfand and Pastore 9</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., ‘9 – Past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility. “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat,” 3-31, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]]</span>.)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Since the end of the Cold War, many have acted as though the danger of nuclear war has ended. It has not ……</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The ready alert status of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention Four: Solvency</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">LEO collisions must be addressed first—most probable collisions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Pearson 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">President of STAR, Inc., a small business in Mount Pleasant, SC he founded in 1998 that has developed aircraft and spacecraft technology under contracts to Air Force, NASA, DARPA, and NIAC, Mr. Pearson has degrees in engineering and geology, and is the author of nearly 100 technical articles, including invited articles for //Encyclopaedia Britannica// and //New Scientist//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(Jerome Pearson,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> //14 January 2010.; Accessed 6/20/11; “ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR”;// Star Technology and Research, Inc. USA; http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Space debris …..</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> LEO should be addressed first. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">EDDE is the best solution—cheapest and propellantless, experiments verify</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Pearson 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">President of STAR, Inc., a small business in Mount Pleasant, SC he founded in 1998 that has developed aircraft and spacecraft technology under contracts to Air Force, NASA, DARPA, and NIAC, Mr. Pearson has degrees in engineering and geology, and is the author of nearly 100 technical articles, including invited articles for //Encyclopaedia Britannica// and //New Scientist//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(Jerome Pearson,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> //14 January 2010.; Accessed 6/20/11; “ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR”;// Star Technology and Research, Inc. USA; http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The most near-term and technically ……</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">lightweight nets to enfold and capture debris objects. The EDDE hardware is shown in Figure 4.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">If EDDE were hit, it still works or could safely de-orbit</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Pearson 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">President of STAR, Inc., a small business in Mount Pleasant, SC he founded in 1998 that has developed aircraft and spacecraft technology under contracts to Air Force, NASA, DARPA, and NIAC, Mr. Pearson has degrees in engineering and geology, and is the author of nearly 100 technical articles, including invited articles for //Encyclopaedia Britannica// and //New Scientist//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(Jerome Pearson,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> //14 January 2010.; Accessed 6/20/11; “ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR”;// Star Technology and Research, Inc. USA; http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Because there are many</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> ……</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">because of the eddy-current damping of their aluminum structure and the tendency of the gravitygradient force to align them vertically.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Only a few key pieces of junk need to be removed – that solves space debris</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Marks 08</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(October 11, 2008, Paul Marks, “Network-style attack could reduce the threat from space debris,” New Scientist Vol 199 Issue 2677, ebscohost)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">But alarmingly, Hugh Lewis and colleagues at ….</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">"</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">If we take out the crucial pieces of junk, the network will effectively be destroyed."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The US is key – others will only do something once the US does</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Dinerman 09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Taylor Dinerman, author and journalist, May 4, 2009, “Unilateral orbital cleanup,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1365/1)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">It is often claimed that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">……..</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">trying to figure out an effective response.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">ONLY the U.S. solves – international cooperation is difficult, the US has most of the debris, and the US would be hardest hit if it lost satellites</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Ansdell 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Megan, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]].) </span>
<span style="color: windowtext;">International cooperation in …..</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">could be employed to ensure other countries either join in the effort later on or pay appropriate fees to the United States for removal services.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Current shielding and maneuvers don’t solve debris collisions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Guterl 09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Fred Guterl, Newsweek, August 10, 2009, Vol 154 Issue 6/7, “Space Junk,” ebscohost)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The China debacle, followed ….</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">hunk of junk.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Harker 1AC </span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention One: Inherency</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Any increase in fragmentation makes space impassable, there are no programs to remove debris in the squo, and the problem won’t solve itself.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Wilder 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Benjamin, Lieutenant Commander, United States Navy, B.S., University of South Alabama, Naval Postgraduate School, __Thesis for a Master of Science in Physics at the Naval Postgraduate School__, //Power Beaming, Orbital Debris Removal, And Other Space Applications Of A Ground Based Free Electron Laser//, March 2010, [[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada518696.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The ‘tipping point’ for space debris has been reached – there is enough orbital debris to cause the cascade effect</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Peralta 11</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.6667px;">(Eyder, NPR reporter, NPR, “Space Debris Has Reached A ‘Tipping Point’</span>)

//Advantage Two: Satellites//

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The cascade effect would destroy satellite capabilities</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ansdell</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">2010</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Megan, second year graduate student in the Master in International Science and Technology Program at the George Washington University’s Elliot School of International Affairs, “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment”, [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Position of satellites and increasing amount of debris in space threaten collisions. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Butt and Black 10</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Samuel Black is a research associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center. Previously, he was a research assistant at the Center for Defense Information. He holds undergraduate degrees in government and politics and a graduate degree in public policy from the University of Maryland. Yousaf Butt is a staff scientist in the High-Energy Astrophysics Division at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics and is currently on leave at the National Academy of Sciences. Previously, he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-Ray Observatory Project and served as a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program. He holds a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysic, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientist, The Growing threat of Space Debris, April 2010; [[http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=5c1f1056-b59b-445d-a5ae-027b5c3b4aa4%40sessionmgr14&vid=18&hid=14]], rn)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Scenario 1: Hegemony</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Satellites are key to mutual deterrence</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Su 10</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Jinyuan, The Silk Road Institute of International Law, School of Law, Xi'an Jiaotong University, China and Visiting Fellow, The Lauterpacht Centre for International Law, University of Cambridge, UK. “The “peaceful purposes” principle in outer space and the Russia-China PPWT Proposal,” PDF. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Securing satellites is critical </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">to maintain our military and intelligence capabilities</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Imburgia 4/4</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Lieutenant Colonel Joseph S. Imburgia is a Judge Advocate in the United States Air Force and is presently </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">assigned as a legal exchange officer to the Directorate of Operations and International Law, Defence Legal, Australian Defence Force, Canberra, Australia. He is a member of the Tennessee and the Supreme Court of the United States bars, and he is a member of the Australian and New Zealand Society of International Law, 4/4/11, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk”) </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Satellites are key to remaining the global military power and minimizing deaths</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ansdell 10</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The loss of just one satellite collapses hegemony</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Kent 7</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Jason R. Kent, Major, USAF, PE, 2007, Getting to Space on a Thread …Space Elevator as Alternative Access to Space April 2007 Blue Horizons Paper Center for Strategy and Technology Air War College)</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A strong military is key to prevent global nuclear conflicts in every region of the world</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kagan 7</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Scenario Two: Disaster</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Debris knocks out GPS satellites – we’ll isolate two impacts;</span>
<span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 16px;">n </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">emergency response services and </span>
<span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 16px;">n </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">power grids</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Megan </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Ansdell, ’10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Emergency Response Services are key to responding to natural disasters</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Thayer, ‘7</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[Bradley A. __American Empire: A Debate__. Routledge Press: Taylor and Francis Group, NY] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Unchecked natural disasters cause human extinction </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘5</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> [Mohamed. “The post-earthquake world.” Al-Ahram Weekly Online. Jan 6-12, 2005. [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]]] </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">If power grids go down it would be the equivalent of an atomic explosion</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Latynina ‘3</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[Yulia, Novaya Gazeta (liberal semi-weekly), Moscow, Russia, Aug. 18, 2003 [[http://www.worldpress.org/americas/1579.cfm]]]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Advantage Three: Miscalc</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Space debris collisions and increasing satellite congestion increases the chances of satellite collisions and escalates to nuclear war. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Tyson 07</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Rhianna Tyson, Program Officer of the global security institute, Global Security Institute, Advancing a Cooperative Security Regime in Outer Space, May 2007, [[http://www.gsinstitute.org/gsi/pubs/05_07_space_brief.pdf]], rn) </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Specifically, space debris risks false alarms and Russian miscalc—leading to all out nuclear war.</span>**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lewis 4</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(Jeffrey, Postdoctoral Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Jeffrey, Worked In the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, What if Space Were Weaponized? July, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span>)</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">US-Russia war is the only existential risk to humanity – smaller wars don’t lead to extinction</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Bostrom 2002</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Nick, PhD, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention Four: Solvency</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">LEO collisions must be addressed first—most probable collisions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Pearson 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(President of STAR, Inc., a small business in Mount Pleasant, SC he founded in 1998 that has developed aircraft and spacecraft technology under contracts to Air Force, NASA, DARPA, and NIAC, Mr. Pearson has degrees in engineering and geology, and is the author of nearly 100 technical articles, including invited articles for //Encyclopaedia Britannica// and //New Scientist//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Jerome Pearson,</span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> 14 January 2010.; Accessed 6/20/11; “ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR”; </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Star Technology and Research, Inc. USA; http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">EDDE is the best solution—cheapest and propellantless, experiments verify</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Pearson 10 – </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">President of STAR, Inc., a small business in Mount Pleasant, SC he founded in 1998 that has developed aircraft and spacecraft technology under contracts to Air Force, NASA, DARPA, and NIAC, Mr. Pearson has degrees in engineering and geology, and is the author of nearly 100 technical articles, including invited articles for //Encyclopaedia Britannica// and //New Scientist//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jerome Pearson,</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 14 January 2010.; Accessed 6/20/11; “ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR”; </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Star Technology and Research, Inc. USA; http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">even if EDDE were hit, it still works or could safely de-orbit</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Pearson 10 – </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">President of STAR, Inc., a small business in Mount Pleasant, SC he founded in 1998 that has developed aircraft and spacecraft technology under contracts to Air Force, NASA, DARPA, and NIAC, Mr. Pearson has degrees in engineering and geology, and is the author of nearly 100 technical articles, including invited articles for //Encyclopaedia Britannica// and //New Scientist//</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jerome Pearson,</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 14 January 2010.; Accessed 6/20/11; “ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR”; </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Star Technology and Research, Inc. USA; http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">International cooperation is difficult – The US needs to take the lead on orbital debris.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Megan Ansdell</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ONLY the U.S. solves – several reasons </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Megan </span><span class="Heading2Char1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Ansdell, ’10</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The US is key – others will only do something once the US does.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Dinerman, 09.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Taylor Dinerman, author and journalist, May 4, 2009, “Unilateral orbital cleanup,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1365/1)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Current shielding and maneuvers don’t solve debris collisions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Guterl, 09.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Fred Guterl, Newsweek, August 10, 2009, Vol 154 Issue 6/7, “Space Junk,” ebscohost)</span>

==2AC== 
==Topicality== 
Space exploration includes robots
Logsdon, 11
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">( John M, Professor Emeritus of Political Science and International Affairs at </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">George Washington University’s Elliott School of International Affairs (<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/557348/space-exploration]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">space exploration, the investigation... Chronology of </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">manned </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">staffed spaceflights</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">*gender modified</span>

Development means creating technology for the use of space
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">Space Development Promotion Act, 5</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> – of the Republic of Korea (5/31, reprinted in the UN Committee on Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, [[http://www.unoosa.org/pdf/limited/c2/AC105_C2_2009_CRP14E.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The terms in... such activities.</span>

=Negative= 

==Consult NATO== 
Prior binding genuine consultation is not only necessary to the alliance but is the only way to ensure effective policies.
Goldgeier 5 (James, Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Institute for European Studies at George Washington, andElizabeth Sherwood-Randall, Adjunct Senior Fellow for Alliance Relations at Stanford, BRIEFING FOR JOURNALISTS ON THE PRESIDENT’S TRIP TO EUROPE, February 18,2005, http://www.cfr.org/publication/7850/briefing_for_journalists_on_the_presidents_trip_to_europe.html)
MR. GOLDGEIER: Well, you know, I mean, part of the ….. That needs to be a part of any action plan, is to consult first with our European allies bilaterally and multilaterally, in capitals and at NATO.

==Security K== 
Whether civilian or military in purpose, the exploration and development of space is inherently tied to achieving the ultimate highground through the development of technology, which results in the extension of war in outer space.
C. Peoples 9 (//Securing Outer Space//: Haunted Dreams, Natalie Bormann and Michael Sheehan, Wearset Ltd. Pg 91-107)
It might be wondered, however, as to why ….
easily extend this analysis to contemporary US space policy as illustrated above.

Attempts to regulate disorder inevitably fail to do anything but legitimate statist institutions and the escalation of biopolitical violence
Bell 5 (colleen, Biopolitical Strategies of Security: Considerations on Canada’s New National Security Policy, http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP34-Bell.pdf)
As an instrument of governance, ……
__, and not least of our ability to be citizens, democrats, or even humans.”__

Reject the affirmative's security discourse - the act of situating ourselves against all forms of security is key in this debate
Neocleous 8 (Mark, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy at Brunel University, 08 (“Critique of Security”, McGill-Queen’s University, pp. 184-186, Published 2008))
<span class="DebateUnderline">The only way out of such a dilemma, __……__</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">brave enough to return the gift.</span>

==<span class="DebateUnderline">Militarization DA</span>== 

Obama’s policy has fostered multilateralism in space
Huntley 11<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Wade, senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, <span style="color: #0022e4;">[[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]]</span>)</span>
As is well understood, __the space policies__ …..
__prevailing political winds.__

Space weapons cause extinction through accidents and miscalculation
Mitchell 1 (Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, Ayotte and Helwich, Teaching Fellows in the Department of Communication at the University of Pittsburgh, 2001(Dr. Gordon R., Kevin J., David Cram, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)
A buildup of space weapons …
<span class="DebateUnderline">biological, and/or chemical weapons. An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

==<span class="DebateUnderline">Ozone DA</span>== 

Plan pushes rocket emissions over the brink - hurts the ozone
Ross et. al. 9(Martin – environmental Systems Directorate @ Aerospace, Ph.D. @ UCLA in Earth and planetary sciences, Darin Toohey, Manfred Peinemann and Patrick Ross, Volume 7, Issue 1 January 2009 , pages 50 – 82, informaworld)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Combustion emissions</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> ….</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">but every type of rocket engine causes some loss; </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">no rocket engine is</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> perfectly “</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">green”</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> in this sense.</span>

Extinction
Festive Earth Society 8(February 26, “The Ozone Layer,” http://festiveearth.com/content/view/96/54/index.html)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The ozone layer is essential for human life</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> …..</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the ozone layer essentially allows life, as we know it, to exist</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>**


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]