======[[toc]]====== 

=China Shift DA= 

:P

==1NC Pre-Berkeley== 
<span class="Underline">US-Sino relations strong- no miscalc in the squo</span>
<span class="Underline">Clinton, 2011, November issue of Foreign Policy magazine, Hilary, Secretary of State, “America's Pacific Century,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/10/11/americas_pacific_century?page=0,1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Over the last two-and-a-half years,… the South China Sea.</span>

China is dependent on the space theatre for its military capabilities- US advancements in space undermine PLA certainty and produces miscalculation
<span class="Underline">Neil, 1-11-11, Alexander, head of the Asia Security Programme at the Royal United Services Institute, “Viewpoint: A new Sino-US high-tech arms race?” http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-pacific-12154991, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Beneath the veneer... in the region.</span>


<span class="Underline">Increased pressure causes China to reciprocate conventionally- undermines diplomacy and provokes miscalculation</span>
<span class="Underline">Chris Twomey, National Security Affairs Dept. Assistant Professor, Contemporary Conflict Center Co-Director, Feb 2009, "Chinese-U.S. Strategic Affairs: Dangerous Dynamism," http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_01-02/china_us_dangerous_dynamism, access 9/6/10</span>

<span class="Underline">China and the... an intense crisis.</span>


<span class="Underline">US-China war goes global</span>
<span class="Underline">Hunkovic, American Military University 2009 [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]</span>

<span class="Underline">A war between... iin this study.</span>


==1NC Post-Berkeley== 
China’s next President must appear strong against US pressure in his visit- the plan forces a hardline response and kills relations
Blumenthal, 2-10-12, Daniel, resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a frequent contributor to Foreign Policy's Shadow Government blog. “Bull in the China Shop,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/02/10/bull_in_the_china_shop?page=full, KHaze

For Xi, the purpose… particularly enjoys discussing.


US-China relations key to solve Iran, North Korea prolif
Eisenstein 11, J.D. Candidate, 2011, The George Washington University Law School; B.A., 2008, Northwestern University (Free Trade, Tires, and Tariffs: Why Imposing Import Duties Against Chinese goods is the Wrong Course of Action for the United States, The Federal Circuit Bar Journal, 20 Fed. Cir. B.J. 305), KHaze

Outside of global economic… cooperation on all fronts.


Iran and North Korean prolif causes extinction- comparatively biggest risk
Miller, 10-17-11, Paul, assistant professor of international security studies at the National Defense University. Prior to stepping behind a lectern, he served as director for Afghanistan on the National Security Council staff from September 2007 to September 2009. Before working as a policymaker, he previously served as a political analyst in the U.S. intelligence community, specializing in South Asia. He also serves as an officer in the U.S. Army Reserve and was deployed to Afghanistan in 2002. “This is no time to cut defense,” http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/10/17/this_is_no_time_to_cut_defense, KHaze

The threats are… disaster this time.


==1NC Chinese Politics== 
Hu and Wen are stabilizing the leadership transition and controlling the Politburo Standing Committee, but support from Party elders and the security apparatus are key.
Ansfield and Johnson – 3-29-12
(“JONATHAN ANSFIELD and IAN JOHNSON, New York Times, “China’s Hierarchy Strives to Regain Unity After Chongqing Leader’s Ouster”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/03/30/world/asia/chinas-leaders-seek-unity-after-ouster-of-bo-xilai.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1)

BEIJING — China’s top leaders are… post and to avoid prison.


Hu needs to be able to placate the security apparatus and nationalists – plan destroys his capacity to make concessions.
Ansfield and Johnson – 3-29-12
(“JONATHAN ANSFIELD and IAN JOHNSON, New York Times, “China’s Hierarchy Strives to Regain Unity After Chongqing Leader’s Ouster”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/03/30/world/asia/chinas-leaders-seek-unity-after-ouster-of-bo-xilai.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1)

Mr. Bo’s continuing influence… closer to Mr. Zhou’s camp. 


Failure of reform causes multiple nuclear wars
Herbert Yee, Assc. Prof. Government @ Hong Kong Baptist University and Ian Storey, Asst. Prof. @ the Asian-Pacific Center for Security Studies, ‘2 (China Threat: Perception, Myths and Reality, p. 5) 

The fourth factor contributing… its neighbors and the world. 


==China War Outweighs== 
We control the UQ and Link - US attempts to unilaterally interfere in China’s perceived interests will fuel Chinese nationalism and lead to a catastrophic war
Bandow 2007
(Doug, “China: Fragile Superpower, Readings in the Age of Empire”, Foreign Follies, September 7, ,http://www.antiwar.com/bandow/?articleid=11565)

Which naturally leads to… interests are not involved.


Small conflicts with China could escalate into a nuclear conflict – err on the side of caution
Fisher 11 (Max, Associate Editor at the Atlantic, Editor of the International Channel, “5 Most Likely Ways the US and China Could Spark Accidental Nuclear War”)

There's a near-infinite… makes them so dangerous.


Nuclear conflict with China is an EXISTENTIAL risk – causes nuclear winter
Wittner 11 (11/30/11 Dr. Lawrence, Prof of History Emeritus at SUNY Albany, “Is a Nuclear War with China Possible?”)

But what would that… facilities over the next decade. 

==Arms Race== 
===Heg=== 
US- China arms race destroys our military influence
Swaine, 1-19-11, Michael D., 12 years at the RAND Corporation. He specializes in Chinese security and foreign policy, U.S.–China relations, and East Asian international relations at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. At RAND, he was a senior political scientist in international studies and also research director of the RAND Center for Asia-Pacific Policy. He was appointed as the first recipient of the RAND Center for Asia-Pacific Policy Chair in Northeast Asian Security in recognition of the exceptional contributions he has made in his field. Prior to joining RAND in 1989, Swaine was a consultant with a private sector firm; a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Chinese Studies, University of California at Berkeley; and a research associate at Harvard University. He attended the Taipei and Tokyo Inter-University Centers for Language Study, administered by Stanford University, for training in Mandarin Chinese and Japanese “China’s Military Muscle,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=42332, KHaze

Does America remain Asia’s… the next several decades.


==Reform Good== 
===Economy + Collapse=== 
The CYL agenda is key to preventing global economic meltdown and the collapse of China
Hutzler 10
(CHARLES HUTZLER (AP), “China PM defends assertive trade, foreign policy”, March 15, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jGQDE0Z2LbFGRirzDQTs81WGjXlAD9EEO65O0)

This year, Beijing is… the stability of state power," he said. 


===AT: CCP Collapse Won't Escalate=== 
Regime collapse causes nuclear lash-out
Rexing ’05 (San – Epoch Times International – August 3rd -- http://www.theepochtimes.com/news/5-8-3/30931.html)

Since the Party’s life is… and gamble with their lives.


===AT: No CCP Collapse=== 
Economic problems and social tension during the succession will deadlock the government and destroy Party legitimacy.
Li 9
(Cheng, Dir. of Research, John L. Thornton China Center, “China’s Team of Rivals ” Brookings Foundation Article series,Marcy http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2009/03_china_li.aspx)

The two dozen senior… next decade and beyond. 


==Space Cooperation== 
Relations key to treaties- lack of trust causes non-compliance
Kueter 2007, Jeff, China’s Space Ambitions-And Ours, The New Atlantis Spring 2007, President of the George C. Marshall Institute, Masters in PoliSci and Security Policy/Science and Technology Studies, http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/chinas-space-ambitions-and-ours, KHaze

Another diplomatic tack… be proof enough of that.)

==<span class="Underline">AT: First Strike</span>== 
First strike causes extinction
Takai, 2009, Retired Colonel and Former Researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force, “U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/

Tokyo, Japan — Those who advocate… the annihilation of mankind.



==<span class="Underline">Pressure</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Aerospace</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Perception of increased US coercion causes China to boycott US aerospace companies</span>
<span class="Underline">Peter Yu, Professor of Law at Cordozo, 2000 (50 Am. U.L. Rev. 131, Lexis)</span>

<span class="Underline">Coercion invites retaliation… so hard to achieve. 244</span>


<span class="Underline">Chinese boycott collapses the aerospace industry</span>
<span class="Underline">Electronic Buyers’ News, 1994 (May 30, Lexis)</span>

<span class="Underline">According to a letter signed… global recession, they noted.</span>


<span class="Underline">Aerospace industry key to the economy</span>
<span class="Underline">Jeff Faux, Founding President and Distinguished Fellow at the Economic Policy Institute, 2002 (http://www.epinet.org/content.cfm/webfeatures_viewpoints_airspace_natlasset)</span>

<span class="Underline">The aerospace industry… generates only .9 other jobs.</span>


<span class="Underline">Economic crisis causes war---strong statistical support</span>
<span class="Underline">Royal, 2010, Director of the DOD’s Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

<span class="Underline">Less intuitive is how… ancillary to those views.</span>



==<span class="Underline">Relations</span>== 
<span class="Underline">See ==> </span><span style="background-color: #f8f8ff;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Montgomery Bell Academy (TN) - Galen Bullington & Kelly Haselton - Affirmative#China%20Aff-Add%20Ons-Relations|Relations]]</span>

<span class="Underline">1NC is normally warming or Korean + Iranian prolif</span>

===Prolif=== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">US-China relations key to solve Iran, North Korea prolif</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Eisenstein 11, J.D. Candidate, 2011, The George Washington University Law School; B.A., 2008, Northwestern University (Free Trade, Tires, and Tariffs: Why Imposing Import Duties Against Chinese goods is the Wrong Course of Action for the United States, The Federal Circuit Bar Journal, 20 Fed. Cir. B.J. 305), KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Outside of global economic… cooperation on all fronts.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Iran and North Korean prolif causes extinction- comparatively biggest risk</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Miller, 10-17-11, Paul, assistant professor of international security studies at the National Defense University. Prior to stepping behind a lectern, he served as director for Afghanistan on the National Security Council staff from September 2007 to September 2009. Before working as a policymaker, he previously served as a political analyst in the U.S. intelligence community, specializing in South Asia. He also serves as an officer in the U.S. Army Reserve and was deployed to Afghanistan in 2002. “This is no time to cut defense,”[[http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/10/17/this_is_no_time_to_cut_defense]], KHaze</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The threats are equally apocalyptic… avert disaster this time.</span>


===<span class="Underline">Warming</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">China’s support is essential to solving climate change- their support and international agreement for action overcomes all opposition</span>
<span class="Underline">Eisenstein 11, J.D. Candidate, 2011, The George Washington University Law School; B.A., 2008, Northwestern University (Free Trade, Tires, and Tariffs: Why Imposing Import Duties Against Chinese goods is the Wrong Course of Action for the United States, The Federal Circuit Bar Journal, 20 Fed. Cir. B.J. 305), KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Security interests are… in serious jeopardy.</span>


<span class="Underline">Warming causes extinction.</span>
<span class="Underline">Oliver Tickell, Environmental Researcher, 8/11/’8</span>
<span class="Underline">(http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange) [Quals Added]</span>

<span class="Underline">We need to get… similar hothouse Earth.</span>



==Relations High== 
Relations are sufficient and growing now- disputes force a restless populace and angry Xi to distrust the US and kill future cooperation
Bader, 2-14-12, Jeffrey, John C. Whitehead senior fellow in international diplomacy at the Brookings Institution and author of the upcoming book, Obama and China's Rise: An Insider's Account of America's Asia Strategy. From 2009 to 2011, Bader served as senior director for East Asian affairs at the National Security Council. “Rooting for Xi,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/02/14/rooting_for_xi_jinping?page=full, KHaze

With Xi's arrival in… want to work with it.


Current US-China security dilemma will promote cooperation- plan changes that calculus
Glaser, 2011, April, Charles, Professor of Political Science and International Affairs and Director of the Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University. “Will China's Rise Lead to War?” Lexis, KHaze

What does all this… by nuclear competition.


China engagement increasing
Rothkopf, 10-14-11, David, “Obama and Clinton's most significant foreign-policy accomplishment,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/10/14/debating_the_pacific_century?page=full, KHaze

But the Obama administration's… chapters in the relationship.


<span class="Underline">US-Sino relations are high now—conflict won’t happen in the status quo.</span>
<span class="Underline">Maroney 6/3. Sean Maroney. Staff writer for VAO News. “Gates Says US, China Military Relationship on 'Positive Trajectory'”</span>
<span class="Underline">June 03, 2011. (http://www.voanews.com/english/news/asia/south/Gates-US-China-Military-Relationship-on-Positive-Trajectory-123111433.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">U.S. Defense Secretary... the two countries.</span>


==<span class="Underline">China Not Evil</span>== 
<span class="Underline">China is currently debating its defensive stance- they’ll either be peaceful towards the US or we’ll push them to cause a second Cold War- preventing containment is key</span>
<span class="Underline">Economy, 2010, December, Elizabeth, C.V. Starr senior fellow and director of Asia studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The End of the 'Peaceful Rise'?,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/11/29/the_end_of_the_peaceful_rise, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">For all the breathless… the rest of the world.</span>


<span class="Underline">China isn’t aggressive- pressure is what causes them to act belligerently</span>
<span class="Underline">Swaine, 1-19-11, Michael D., 12 years at the RAND Corporation. He specializes in Chinese security and foreign policy, U.S.–China relations, and East Asian international relations at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. At RAND, he was a senior political scientist in international studies and also research director of the RAND Center for Asia-Pacific Policy. He was appointed as the first recipient of the RAND Center for Asia-Pacific Policy Chair in Northeast Asian Security in recognition of the exceptional contributions he has made in his field. Prior to joining RAND in 1989, Swaine was a consultant with a private sector firm; a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Chinese Studies, University of California at Berkeley; and a research associate at Harvard University. He attended the Taipei and Tokyo Inter-University Centers for Language Study, administered by Stanford University, for training in Mandarin Chinese and Japanese “China’s Military Muscle,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=42332, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Has China become more assertive global financial crisis</span>


==<span class="Underline">AT: Deter China</span>== 
Can’t deter China’s ASATs- they can fight us now
Houpt, 10-31-11, Danny, The Space Review, “A new policy typology to better understand the goals of China’s space program,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1958/1, KHaze

China’s ongoing microsatellite… target assets in LEO.18


<span class="Underline">Can’t deter China in space- calculation disparity</span>
<span class="Underline">Saunders and Lutes 2007, Phillip C. Saunders, Director of East Asia Nonproliferation Program at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, Colonel Charles D. Lutes, USAF, is the Director for Nonproliferation on the National Security Council Staff, a White House position he has held for Presidents George W. Bush and Barack H. Obama. From 2004 to 2008, he was a Senior Military Fellow in the Institute for National Strategic Studies (INSS) at the National Defense University (NDU), where he served as a member of the Future Strategic Concepts Program and was the Principal Investigator for the Spacepower Theory Project. Prior to joining INSS, Colonel Lutes served as chief of the Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) division under the J–5 Deputy Director for the War on Terror. He also served in J–5 as chief of the Strategic Plans Branch, “China’s ASAT Test: Motivations and Implications”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA517485&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Deterring the use of ASAT… attacks on satellites</span>


==<span class="Underline">Links</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Pressure</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">China will engage in increased military operations in space to scare the US away from space dominance</span>
<span class="Underline">Hagt, 7 - director of the China Program at the World Security Institute (Winter, Eric, “China’s ASAT Test: Strategic Response,” World Security Institute, china Security, pp. 31-51)</span>

<span class="Underline">The above discussion… wasn’t fully informed. 49</span>


===<span class="Underline">Alternative Energy</span>=== 
China sees a solar military as key to primacy- the plan disrupts the stability of the energy race
Naish, 2010, John, environmental campaigner and the author of "Enough: Breaking Free from the World of More," New Statesman, “Lean, Green Killing Machines,” http://www.newstatesman.com/environment/2010/05/china-military-energy-green, KHaze

The US military is rushing… become more fuel-efficient. 


===<span class="Underline">Conventional Advancements</span>=== 
Conventional strike advances cause Chinese modernization
Blair, 2006, Bruce G., President of the World Security Institute. Mr. Blair is the author of numerous articles and books on security issues including the Logic of Accidental Nuclear War and Global Zero Alert for Nuclear Forces. He is presently completing a new book on U.S. nuclear policy. Chen Yali is the editor in chief of Washington Observer. She is also a Program Manager of Chen Shi China Research Group based in Beijing. “The Fallacy of Nuclear Primacy,” http://www.wsichina.org/cs4_4.pdf, KHaze

China’s real concern… player would avoid.


===<span class="Underline">Control</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">US efforts to control space causes Chinese aggression</span>
<span class="Underline">Zhang, 11 – Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University (March/April, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship,” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2, JSTOR)</span>

<span class="Underline">The first factor that… or other purposes.”</span>


===<span class="Underline">GBL</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">GBLs are perceived as ASAT weapons and US aggression in space</span>
<span class="Underline">Blake, 2010, Wing Commander Duncan P. Blake (LLB, BEc, University of Western Australia (1996); LL.M., University of Melbourne (2005); Australian Command and Staff College (2007)) is a Legal Officer with the Royal Australian Air Force. He is currently completing a Master of Laws in Space Law at McGill University. Prior to his current assignment, he was assigned as the Deputy Director of the Operations and International Law Directorate, Defence Legal, Australian Defence Force, Canberra, Australia and was previously the Chief Legal Officer, Middle East Area of Operations. He is a Barrister and Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Western Australia “"BLOODLESS WEAPONS"? THE NEED TO CONDUCT LEGAL REVIEWS OF CERTAIN CAPABILITIES AND THE IMPLICATIONS OF DEFINING THEM AS "WEAPONS",” Lexis, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Recent advances in… against a U.S. satellite in 2006. 142</span>


===<span class="Underline">SSA</span>=== 
Increasing SSA capabilities is perceived as military aggression
Bruneau and Morgan, 2006 (Richard Bruneau is a researcher at the Canadian Centre for Treaty Compliance (CCTC) in Ottawa, Canada. Assisting Trevor Findlay, his current work at the centre focuses on non-governmental involvement in monitoring compliance with arms treaties. In space-related matters, he is completing research for the Space Security Index with Project Ploughshares and Foreign Affairs Canada. He is also a graduate student at the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs in Ottawa, studying issues of human security, arms control and humanitarian protection, Scott G. Lofquist-Morgan, Canadian Centre for Treaty Compliance Norman Paterson School of International Affairs Carleton University, Ottawa, Canada, “Verification Models for Space Weapons Treaties: A flexible, layered approach as a negotiating tool”, http://www2.carleton.ca/cctc/ccms/wp-content/ccms-files/SpaceWeaponVerificationDraftMay8.pdf, KHaze

In the context of space… (NTM) of a select few.


SSA increase perceived as US deterrence in space
Defense News 8 [ “Experts: Deterrence Won't Protect U.S. Satellites - Defense News” By william matthews Published: 13 Nov 17] http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=3820260&c=AME&s=AIR

In the past two years,… budget cuts, Sheldon warned.


SSA makes the US capable of counterattacks in space
Chilton 2006 Aviation Week and Space Technology, quoting Chilton, Air Force Space Command General/Commander, What’s Up There?, EBSCO

Space situational awareness (SSA) is… commander's combat-operations planning.


Knowledge of space capabilities deters attacks
Sheldon ’08 – Marshall Institute Fellow and a visiting professor at the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Air University, Maxwell AFB, Alabama. At SAASS he teaches and directs the Space and National Security and the Information, Cyber, and Intelligence Power courses (John, “Deterrence in Space: Responding to Challenges to the U.S. in Outer Space,” The George C. Marshall Institute: Washington Roundtable on Science & Public Policy, November 13, http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/622.pdf, RBW)

I suggest that we… a satellite, including cyber.


===<span class="Underline">Vagueness</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Inherent vagueness in new space policies creates the perception of US aggression</span>
<span class="Underline">Sadeh 10 [Eligar Sadeh is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Space Studies at the University of North Dakota where he directs the Space Policy track for the Department. Sadeh also serves as a Research Associate with the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University. Dr Sadeh has developed graduate level courses in Space Politics and Policy, Public Administration of Space Technology, Space Law, and Space and the Environment.Astropolitics; Jan 2010, Vol. 8 Issue 1, p7-18, 12p. “Report: United Sates-China Space Dialogue Project.”. Astropolitics, 8:7-18. Political Science Complete.]</span>

<span class="Underline">The United States relationship… the two states.</span>


==<span class="Underline">AT: China Modernization Now/Inevitable</span>== 
<span class="Underline">China’s rise is inevitable- they could beat us in a non-military manner- economic and diplomatic incentives will drive them to be peaceful absent US aggression</span>
<span class="Underline">Rachman, 2011, Gideon, chief foreign-affairs commentator for the Financial Times and author of Zero-Sum Future: American Power in an Age of Anxiety. Foreign Policy, “ Think Again: American Decline,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/02/think_again_american_decline, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">"We've Heard All This… of things to come.</span>


<span class="Underline">Chinese space modernization is a reaction to US aggression- only the plan triggers long term aggession</span>
<span class="Underline">DeGroot, 8-25-11, Gerard, BA (Whitman), PhD (Edin.), writes for The Telegraph, author of “Dark Side of the Moon,” “As China gazes upwards, watch this space,” http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8722806/As-China-gazes-upwards-watch-this-space.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Ever since the first… treated like one.</span>


<span class="Underline">Not treating China as a threat and defaulting to military ties solves China’s rise</span>
<span class="Underline">Swaine, 1-19-11, Michael D., 12 years at the RAND Corporation. He specializes in Chinese security and foreign policy, U.S.–China relations, and East Asian international relations at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. At RAND, he was a senior political scientist in international studies and also research director of the RAND Center for Asia-Pacific Policy. He was appointed as the first recipient of the RAND Center for Asia-Pacific Policy Chair in Northeast Asian Security in recognition of the exceptional contributions he has made in his field. Prior to joining RAND in 1989, Swaine was a consultant with a private sector firm; a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Chinese Studies, University of California at Berkeley; and a research associate at Harvard University. He attended the Taipei and Tokyo Inter-University Centers for Language Study, administered by Stanford University, for training in Mandarin Chinese and Japanese “China’s Military Muscle,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=42332, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Is there an emerging military… United States and China.</span>


==AT: Relations Dont Spillover== 
<span class="Underline">Disruptions in US-China relations spill over to other areas of cooperation</span>
<span class="Underline">Oleksandr Gladkyy, Edmund S. Muskie Fellow in international affairs at SMS, 6/22 2003, World Affairs, “American foreign policy and U.S. relations with Russia and China after 11 September”</span>

<span class="Underline">In the previous sections,… hindering already established cooperation.</span>




=Diplomatic Capital= 
==1NC== 
US working to diplomatically pressure Iran now
Williams, 4-8-12, Dan, Reuters, “West to target Iran's nuclear fuel work,” http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/04/08/us-iran-nuclear-idUSBRE83707720120408, KHaze

(Reuters) - The United States and… 20-percent enriched uranium.


Total diplomatic focus key- any less means talks fail and cause Israel to strike
Sanger, 4-7-12, David E., New York Times, “U.S. Defines Its Demands for New Round of Talks With Iran,” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/04/08/world/middleeast/us-defines-its-demands-for-new-round-of-talks-with-iran.html?pagewanted=2&_r=1&hp#, KHaze

The outcome of the talks — or their… centrifuges keep spinning. 


Iran strike crushes the economy
Hargreaves, 4-11-12, Steve, CNN, “Iran-fueled oil price spike biggest threat to economy,” http://money.cnn.com/2012/04/11/news/economy/oil-price-economy/index.htm, KHaze

NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- An oil price… biggest risk to the U.S. economy.


Economic collapse causes nuclear war
Royal, 2010, Director of the DOD’s Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215

Less intuitive is how periods… ancillary to those views. 



=DOD Tradeoff= 
==1NC== 
<span class="Underline">Obama’s Pentagon budget only cuts minimal amounts- budget fight forces automatic massive budget cuts in critical areas</span>
<span class="Underline">Traub, 8-12-11, James, contributing writer for the New York Times Magazine and author of, most recently, The Freedom Agenda. "Terms of Engagement," his column for ForeignPolicy.com, runs weekly, “Can Obama Be Just Like Ike?” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/12/can_obama_be_just_like_ike?page=0,1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Defense spending now absorbs… believe that he does."</span>


===Aerospace Module=== 
<span class="Underline">Budget pullbacks will crush the aerospace industry- kills smaller firms key to the economy and Heg</span>
<span class="Underline">Slazer, 11 – Vice President of the Space Aerospace Industries Association, also Director NASA/Civil Space at Mcdonnell Douglas Corporation (Frank, “Contributions of Space to National Imperatives”, Senate Hearing, 5/18, http://commerce.senate.gov/public/?a=Files.Serve&File_id=e26b4dcb-ee2c-4ada-95fa-b996c307692d , KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The U.S. military and national… assets in the future.</span>


<span class="Underline">Economic crisis causes war---strong statistical support</span>
<span class="Underline">Royal, 2010, Director of the DOD’s Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

<span class="Underline">Less intuitive is how… ancillary to those views.</span>


<span class="Underline">Heg solves all wars and an alternative is impossible</span>
<span class="Underline">Kagan, 7 (senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, "End of Dreams, Return of History", 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">This is a good thing,… security became threatened.</span>

===Green DOD Module=== 
<span class="Underline">DOD shifting to solar based systems now</span>
<span class="Underline">Warner, 2009, Jerry, former combat officer and now a small businessman engaged in the development of alternative energy systems. In his personal capacity, he served as a member of the Obama ’08 defense policy task force. Peter Warren Singer is Director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institution and author of the book Wired for War. In his personal capacity, he served as coordinator of the Obama ’08 defense policy task force. “Fueling the “Balance” A Defense Energy Strategy Primer,” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2009/08_defense_strategy_singer/08_defense_strategy_singer.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">To be clear, the DoD… for such measures.</span>


<span class="Underline">New cuts would hamstring the transition- they’d target energy efficiency systems</span>
<span class="Underline">Singer, 8-11-11, P.W., director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institution, “Think Before You Cut,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/11/think_before_you_cut?page=0,1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Similar parallels exist… across the broader economy.</span>


<span class="Underline">Solar power solves warming</span>
<span class="Underline">Hsu 10 – PhD in Engineering</span>
<span class="Underline">Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html</span>

<span class="Underline">It has become increasingly… to make a difference.</span>


<span class="Underline">Warming magnifies every impact and causes extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Burke '8 (Sharon, sr fellow and dir of the energy security project at the Center for a New American Security, Chapter 6 of Climatic Cataclysm: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Climate Change, edited by Kurt Campbell, p 157-165)</span>

<span class="Underline">At the same time,… compromise agricultural productivity.</span>


===Japan Module=== 
<span class="Underline">Massive cuts will force us to back out of security promises to Asian allies</span>
<span class="Underline">Denmark, 6-7-11, Abraham H., senior advisor at the Center for Naval Analyses “Crowded Waters,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/06/07/crowded_waters?page=0,2, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">First, the United States is… defense secretary and Congress.)</span>


<span class="Underline">Japanese nuclearization results</span>
<span class="Underline">Joseph Nye, Dean, Harvard Kennedy School of Government, assistant secretary of defense, chair of the CIA’s National Intelligence Council, 2009</span>
<span class="Underline">(2009, Joseph, interview by Gardles, “Addressing China's Worst Fear Of North Korean Collapse Would Gain Chinese Help in Disarming Kim Jong-Il,” http://www.ihavenet.com/China-Addressing-Chinese-Fear-Of-North-Korean-Collapse.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">I don't think Japan's nuclearization… nuclearization would be likely.</span>


<span class="Underline">That leads to nuclear world war 3.</span>
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer 1 – Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at University of Chicago</span>
<span class="Underline">[John J., “The Future of the American Pacifier,” Foreign Affairs, September/October, p. 46, LN] bg</span>

<span class="Underline">It is difficult to… U.S. military power.</span>

====Catch All Impact==== 
<span class="Underline">Japanese policy shift on nuclear issue destroys the NPT, causes an Asian arms race, heightened Indo/Pak tensions, & destroys US heg.</span>
<span class="Underline">Emma Chantlett-Avery, Congressional Research Service Asian Affairs Specialist, & Mary Beth Nikitin, CRS Nonproliferation Analyst, 2009</span>
<span class="Underline">[Congressional Research Service, Report for Congress, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects & US Interests,” Feb. 19, www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]</span>

<span class="Underline">Any reconsideration and/or… region and beyond.</span>


====Russia War==== 
<span class="Underline">Japanese rearm would cause an arms race between Russia and the US.</span>
<span class="Underline">Chungang Ilbo 2009 (“South Korean daily urges North to stop 'toying with missile,’” BBC, http://www.lexisnexis.com.lexproxy.minlib.net/us/lnlib/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T9386679243&format=GNBFI&sort=RELEVANCE&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T9386679246&cisb=22_T9386679245&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=10962&docNo=3, 5/20/10 LexisNexis)</span>

<span class="Underline">Japan's enhancement of its… prosper together in peace.</span>

<span class="Underline">US-Russian nuclear war causes extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Nick Bostrom, PhD and Professor at Oxford, Recipient of the Gannon Award, March 2002, www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html</span>

<span class="Underline">A much greater existential… thwart humankind’s potential permanently.</span>


====Indo-Pak War==== 
<span class="Underline">A nuclear Japan would create an arms race with India and Pakistan</span>
<span class="Underline">Eugene A. Matthews, former Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, President of Nintai (international educational firm), 2003 ("Japan's New Nationalism", Foreign Affairs, Vol. 82, No. 6, Nov. - Dec., 2003, JSTOR, 5/20/10)</span>

<span class="Underline">Having said that,… for disastrous conflict.</span>

<span class="Underline">Extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Fai ’01 (Ghulam Nabi, Executive Director, Kashmiri American Council, Washington Times, 7-8)</span>

<span class="Underline">The foreign policy… does not justify complacency.</span>


====<span class="Underline">North Korea Impact</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">Japanese nuclear acquisition ensures China will sanction North Korea, which causes regime collapse</span>
<span class="Underline">Martin 9 – Bradley, Global Post</span>
<span class="Underline">[May 27, [[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/southkorea/090527/time-encourage-japan-and-south-korea-go-nuclear]]]</span>

<span class="Underline">A different view… leveraged buyout negotiations.”</span>


<span class="Underline">Global nuclear war.</span>
<span class="Underline">Bennett & Hachigian 4 – Senior Analyst and Director of Center for Asia Pacific Policy at RAND Corporation</span>
<span class="Underline">[Jan 31, LEXIS]bg</span>

<span class="Underline">Ideally, regime change in North… would be greater.</span>


==Links== 
===NASA=== 
<span class="Underline">NASA will request the wrong level of funds for the plan- causes inevitable budget backlog—empirics prove</span>
<span class="Underline">GAO, 05 (“NASA’S SPACE VISION Business Case for Prometheus 1 Needed to Ensure Requirements Match Available Resources,” GAO-05-242, Feb. 2005, p 10)</span>

<span class="Underline">Adding to these complexities,… underway at NASA.</span>

===Launch Costs=== 
<span class="Underline">Launch costs alone make the plan a budget suck</span>
<span class="Underline">Gwynne, 08 - North America correspondent for Physics World [Peter Gwynne, July 2008, Physics World: “NASA Prepares for its Next Half Century,” Physics World Archive] WSX</span>

<span class="Underline">A major problem with… Both are valid.”</span>


<span class="Underline">Launches drain the budget</span>
<span class="Underline">Foust, 04 – editor and publisher of the Space Review [Jeff Foust, 9/27/04, The Space Review: “Reducing Launch Costs: A Lower Limit?” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/233/1] WSX</span>

<span class="Underline">A central tenet… that drive launch costs.</span>


=Elections DA= 
==1NC== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama on track to win 2012 by sticking solely to the message of job creation and economic recovery.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Semindinger 12-14</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Alex, Real Clear Politics Analyst, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2011/12/14/why_team_obama_is_bullish_on_re-election_in_2012_112398.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama as the embattled… of the Republican Party.”</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Public opposes increases in space programs – perceives that the plan costs exorbitant amounts of money.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hsu ‘11</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Jeremy, Space.com Senior writer, "The Myth of America's Love Affair with the Moon" http://www.space.com/10601-apollo-moon-program-public-support-myth.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Public support for overall… doing this," Launius said.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perception of being solely dedicated to the economy is crucial to Obama’s re-election – plan tips the balance GOP.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feller ‘11</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Ben, Associated Press White House writer, 6/6,</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">http://www.newsmax.com/InsideCover/Obama-sChallenge-Analysis/2011/06/04/id/398827]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WASHINGTON (AP) — President Barack Obama cannot… It's taking a while to mend."</span>


==Impacts== 
===Health Care=== 
====Loss = Repeal==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GOP victory ensures repeal of Obamacare.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kuhn 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Daniel, Chief Political Correspondent for RealClearPolitics and the author of The Neglected Voter. He covered the 2008 campaign for Politico and the 2004 campaign for CBSnews.com. Kuhn got his start in national politics as the domestic news intern for Time magazine during the 2000 campaign; ; “Health Care Law Could Fall, and With It Obama's Legacy”; </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/printpage/?url=http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2011/06/17/health_care_reform_repeal_could_fall_obama_legacy_democrats_2012_court_senate_reconciliation-full.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It was the first... </span>make it really tough."


====Economy==== 
Health care key to economic growth
Gruber 9 (Jonathan Gruber is a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a board member of the Massachusetts Health Insurance Connector Authority, New York Times, “Medicine for the Job Market,” pg online @ http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/04/opinion/04gruber.html?_r=1&ref=opinion)

As the country slips… an important place to start.



Economic crisis causes war---strong statistical support
Royal, 2010, Director of the DOD’s Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215

Less intuitive is how… to those views.


====Bioterror==== 
Obamacare is key to bioterrorist readiness and checks a smallpox outbreak
Sklar 02
[Holly, Coauthor of “Raise the Floor”, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, “Rolling the Dice on Our Nations’ Health”, December 19, http://www.commondreams.org/views02/1219-07.htm]

Imagine if the first… for any bioterror attack.


Extinction.
Ochs 02
[Former president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group
“Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]

Of all the weapons of… slippery is this slope?


====Bioterror O/W==== 
Bioweapons are easy to get- outweighs on probability
Hoffman, 12-27-11, David E., American journalist, a Pultizer Prize-winning author, and a contributing editor to the Washington Post and Foreign Policy. “On biology: promise and peril,” http://hoffman.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/12/27/on_biology_promise_and_peril, KHaze

We live in an age… We're not there yet.


===Newt=== 
====NASA==== 
Newt victory guts government space funding- turns case and causes rollback
Daily KOS, 6-17-11, “Does Newt Gingrich think killing NASA would aid space exploration?” http://www.dailykos.com/story/2011/06/17/985467/-Does-Newt-Gingrich-think-killing-NASA-would-aid-space-exploration?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+dailykos%2Findex+%28Daily+Kos%29, KHaze

Decades of living… helping of both.


====OST==== 
Newt victory causes moon colony and mining
Keating, 1-26-12, Joshua, Foreign Policy, “Is There Anything We need On The Moon?” http://blog.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/01/26/is_there_anything_we_need_on_the_moon

Newt Gingrich has been… anyone makes money there.


That kills the OST
Gangale, 2008, Thomas, OPS-Alaska, Petaluma, California, AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting and Exhibit “Castles in the Air: Debunking the Space Settlement Prize,” http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/ASM2008_CastlesInTheAir.pdf, KHaze

What Wasser proposes is not… United States to exercise sovereignty.


OST failure causes moon militarization and world war three
Hatch, 2010, J.D. Candidate, Emory University School of Law (2010); B.A., Southern Methodist University (2007). Recipient of the Founder's Award for Excellence in Legal Research and Writing, “COMMENT: DIVIDING THE PIE IN THE SKY: THE NEED FOR A NEW LUNAR RESOURCES REGIME*,” Lexis, KHaze

DO-NOTHING systems… World War III.


====SBMD==== 
Newt victory causes deployment of SBMD
Gingrich, 2002, Newt, US Presidential Candidate and current frontrunner in the GOP primary, “Interview: Newt Gingrich,” http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/missile/interviews/gingrich.html#ixzz1fOvQH8Pv, KHaze

As I understand it,… that are antithetical.


SBMD causes space weaponization
Grego and Wright, 10 – *Laura, senior scientist in the Global Security Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, **David, senior scientist and co-director of the UCS Global Security Program (“Securing the Skies,” Union of Concerned Scientists, Nov. 2010, www.ucsusa.org/securingtheskies) Red

A U.S. decision… systems for themselves.


Weaponization results in preemptive strikes and causes extinction
Mitchell et al, 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh
(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)

A buildup of space… conflict ever seen.


===Heg=== 
Obama re-election key to Heg- Democrats will backlash to Republican efforts
Walt, 2-14-12, Stephen M., the Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international affairs at Harvard University and a blogger at ForeignPolicy.com “Why hawks should vote for Obama,” http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/02/14/our_new_strategic_experiment, KHaze

If you are someone… Obama that is doing these things.


GOP will withdraw and make us look weak.
Lobe 11
[Jim Lobe, Foreign Policy Analyst, “NeoCons Losing hold over Republican Foreign Policy” 6/16/11, http://original.antiwar.com/lobe/2011/06/15/neocons-losing-hold-over-republican-foreign-policy%C2%A0/]

WASHINGTON, Jun 15, 2011 (IPS) - Nearly ten years after… a long-term U.S. priority. 


===Warming=== 
Obama solves warming – GOP destroys environment.
Sustainable Business News, 2011
[2-11, http://www.sustainablebusiness.com/index.cfm/go/news.display/id/21871]

Congressional Republicans on Wednesday… country competitive globally.


Warming magnifies every impact and causes extinction
Burke '8 (Sharon, sr fellow and dir of the energy security project at the Center for a New American Security, Chapter 6 of Climatic Cataclysm: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Climate Change, edited by Kurt Campbell, p 157-165)

At the same time,… will compromise agricultural productivity.


===Nuclear Arsenal=== 
Obama win reduces the nuclear arsenal – revives the economy, bolsters nuclear non-proliferation, solves nuclear terrorism and Iran nuclearization & doesn’t hurt deterrence.
Korb & Rothman, 2-15
[Lawrence J. Korb: Senior Fellow @ American Progress; senior advisor, Center for Defense Information, Georgetown University Prof. Alex Rothman: Special Assistant w/ National Security & International Policy team, American Progress. http://thinkprogress.org/security/2012/02/15/426332/obama-plan-to-reduce-nukes-is-good-for-budget-boosts-moral-authority-on-global-nonproliferation/?mobile=nc]

The Obama administration is… what it preaches.


Nuclear terror causes extinction.
Sid-Ahmed ‘4 [Mohammed, Political analyst for Al-Ahram Newspaper for more than 20 years and author of several books on Middle East issues, 8/1, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]

A nuclear attack by… will all be losers.


====Will Reduce Arsenal==== 
Obama can reduce nukes- re-election is key
Traub, 2-17-12, Jams, fellow of the Center on International Cooperation. "Terms of Engagement," his column for Foreign Policy, runs weekly. “Fumbling the Nuclear Football,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/02/17/fumbling_the_nuclear_football?page=full, KHaze

Now, however, the market… come with historic change.


====Funding Tradeoff- Korea Scenario==== 
Budget fights force the Pentagon to cut ground troops
Haddick, 10-7-11, Robert, managing editor of Small Wars Journal. “This Week at War: Corporate Downsizing Comes to the Pentagon,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/10/07/this_week_at_war_corporate_downsizing_comes_to_the_pentagon, KHaze

Last weekend, Scott Shane… replace soldiers with machines.


Troop presence key to deter Korean conflict escalation- causes nuclear war, global prolif, China war, and nuclear terrorism
O’Hanlon, 11-7-11, Michael, director of research and a senior fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, where he specializes in U.S. defense strategy, the use of military force, homeland security and American foreign policy. He is a visiting lecturer at Princeton University and adjunct professor at John Hopkins University. O'Hanlon is the author of several books, most recently A Skeptic's Case for Nuclear Disarmament. His writing has been published in The Washington Post, The New York Times, The Financial Times, The Wall Street Journal, among other publications, and he has appeared on TV or radio almost 2,000 times since 9/11. Before joining Brookings, O'Hanlon worked as a national security analyst at the Congressional Budget Office and served as a Peace Corps volunteer in Congo/Kinshasa (the former Zaire). He received his bachelor, masters, and doctoral degrees from Princeton, where he studied public and international affairs. “The future of the force: Better think twice before cutting lots of heavy ground units,” http://ricks.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/11/07/the_future_of_the_force_better_think_twice_before_cutting_lots_of_heavy_ground_un_0, KHaze

Consider the Korea case… for a few months.


====<span style="font-size: 13px;">Funding Tradeoff- Korea Scenario</span>==== 
Budget fights force the Pentagon to cut ground troops
Haddick, 10-7-11, Robert, managing editor of Small Wars Journal. “This Week at War: Corporate Downsizing Comes to the Pentagon,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/10/07/this_week_at_war_corporate_downsizing_comes_to_the_pentagon, KHaze

Last weekend, Scott Shane and… soldiers with machines. 


Ground troops solve Indo-Pak war and Pakistan collapse- causes nuclear terrorism and escalates globally
O’Hanlon, 11-7-11, Michael, director of research and a senior fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, where he specializes in U.S. defense strategy, the use of military force, homeland security and American foreign policy. He is a visiting lecturer at Princeton University and adjunct professor at John Hopkins University. O'Hanlon is the author of several books, most recently A Skeptic's Case for Nuclear Disarmament. His writing has been published in The Washington Post, The New York Times, The Financial Times, The Wall Street Journal, among other publications, and he has appeared on TV or radio almost 2,000 times since 9/11. Before joining Brookings, O'Hanlon worked as a national security analyst at the Congressional Budget Office and served as a Peace Corps volunteer in Congo/Kinshasa (the former Zaire). He received his bachelor, masters, and doctoral degrees from Princeton, where he studied public and international affairs. “The future of the force: Better think twice before cutting lots of heavy ground units,” http://ricks.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/11/07/the_future_of_the_force_better_think_twice_before_cutting_lots_of_heavy_ground_un_0, KHaze

Of all the military… mission on their own.



===AT: Next Congress Will Gridlock=== 
Obama win makes the GOP fall apart- he’ll pass the bill later
Harwood, 1-24-12, John, New York Times, “State of the Union? More Like State of the Campaign,” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/01/25/us/politics/state-of-the-union-more-like-state-of-the-campaign.html?_r=1, KHaze

And if the president’s… him. And they didn’t.”


==Links== 
===Public=== 
Massive universal opposition to space programs – public prefers government resources spent in any number of other areas.
Dr. Roger Launius, Smithsonian Senior Curator, Space History Division, 2010
[August 16, former chief historian of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
http://launiusr.wordpress.com/2010/08/16/exploding-the-myth-of-popular-support-for-project-apollo/]

Because of the on-going… line before collapsing.


===Newt=== 
Space stimulus unites the GOP and lets Romney paint Obama as Newt
Kapur, 1-26-12, Sahil, talking Points Memo, “Newt Gingrich, Space Keynesian,” http://tpmdc.talkingpointsmemo.com/2012/01/newt-gingrich-space-keynesian.php?ref=fpnewsfeed, KHaze

Newt Gingrich’s case… on those criticisms.


===Independents=== 
Obama’s approval rating high enough to maintain – BUT new spending now upsets key independents – makes them vote GOP.
Gould and Walter ‘11
[Martin & Kathleen, Newsmax writers, 7-12, http://www.newsmax.com/Headline/Gillespie-Obama-economy-leadership/2011/07/12/id/403350]

Voters in the focus… to these voters.”


==AT: Link Turns== 
Public is impatient – link turn not soon enough. Obama’s balancing act now is barely sufficient.
The Hill 12-11
[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/801-economy/198621-obama-reviving-economy-a-long-term-project]

President Obama, in an interview… package did not work.


People care more about the economy than space- disproves their link turns
Foust, 1-30-12, Jeff, editor and publisher of The Space Review. He also operates the Spacetoday.net web site and the Space Politics and NewSpace Journal weblogs. “Campaign lunacy,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2015/1, KHaze

While many space…, perhaps, the moonlight. 


==AT: Election Too Far Away== 
GOP will take advantage and spin the plan in their favor – won’t let people forget.
Gotthardt 12-14
[Karl, Canadian Politics & Military Affairs Editor, http://www.politisite.com/2011/12/14/gallup-poll-suggests-republicans-enthusiastic-than-democrats-for-2012-election/]

Needless to say… refute the democratic spin.