[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Inherency</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Space exploration is inevitable—but current plans disregard further lunar exploration</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Logsdon 7-19</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (John M. Logsdon, “As Atlantis Glides to Its Final Landing, What Comes Next?” Scientific American, 19 July 2011, [[http://www.scientificamerican.com/blog/post.cfm?id=as-atlantis-glides-to-it-final-land-2011-07-19]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">By following the reasoning of the 2009 Augustine Committee, the Obama administration has imposed unneeded constraints on future space planning... Obama</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> on April 15, 2010, </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">announced</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> that reaching a near-earth asteroid by 2025 should be the initial goal of the next round of human exploration, and </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">that a return to the moon would not be a high priority U.S. objective.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Obama is destroying NASA’s lunar ambitions</span>**
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hatch 10</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Hatch, Benjamin D. Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review. “DIVIDING THE PIE IN THE SKY: THE NEED FOR A NEW LUNAR RESOURCES REGIME.” Vol. 24 Rev. 229. 2010. [[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-108hhrg92757/pdf/CHRG-108hhrg92757.pdf]]. </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States of America is a key player in the future of the Moon.</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Of all spacefaring nations, </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">only the United States has actually had its citizens reach the Moon...</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">. </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">It is in the national security, energy, and economic interests of the United States to have a hand in the disposition of the lunar resources that the other great powers will be seeking</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">.</span>
==**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan:</span>**== 
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">The United States federal government should guarantee funding to establish a Lunar Base dedicated to mining the Moon.</span>**
== == 
==<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">1 – Freedom</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">The moon is livable and has vast natural resources—but other countries like China are already moving to claim it</span>**
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Don C. </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Brunell</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, President of the Association of Washington Business, “Mistake to Bypass the Moon,” 23 April </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2010</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, [[http://www.awb.org/articles/competitiveness/mistake_to_bypass_the_moon.htm]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> It is not about “been there, done that;” it is about having a place</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> from which to launch deep space missions — like his mission to Mars.T</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">— test new technologies and develop limitless supplies of clean energy the moon is a valuable resource just waiting to be developed by some enterprising nation</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">.Space physicist David Criswell believes it could supply clean renewable energy for our entire planet. He and others envision a series of lunar power facilities to capture massive amounts of solar energy and beam it back to Earth. The moon receives more than 13,000 terawatts of energy and harnessing one percent of that energy could satisfy our planetary needs.Apollo 17 astronaut Dr. Harrison “Jack” Schmitt, a geologist and one of the last two people to walk on the moon, believes </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Helium 3 found on the moon is the key to the second generation of fusion reactors.</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> A light non-radioactive isotope</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">, Helium 3, is rare on Earth, but plentiful on the moon, and scientists believe it could produce vast amounts of electricity</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">... </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">there could be drinking water, oxygen for breathing and hydrogen for rocket fuel on the moon itself.China sees the strategic advantage of</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> establishing bases </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">the moonand plans to start within 10 years.</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Ironically, the United States is the clear leader in lunar technology. Through decades of risk, sacrifice, heroism and hard work</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">, America has led the world in unprecented space exploration.</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Now, the president’s plan would have the United States step aside as the Russians shuttle to and from the space station </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">and the Chinese pass us on the way to the moon.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Additionally, lunar expansion and basing is critical to sustaining global hegemony—Chinese moves to gain control over lunar resources and strategic points threatens to plunge the globe into authoritarianism</span>**
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Paul </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Spudis</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute and former Deputy Leader of the Science Team for the Department of Defense Clementine mission to the Moon, “The New Space Race,” Space Ref, 2/9/</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2010</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewnews.html?id=1376]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">A system that is able to routinely go to and from the lunar surface is also able to access any other point in cislunar space</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">....</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The choice is clear; we cannot afford to relinquish our foothold in space and abandon the Vision for Space Exploration</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hegemony is great—it ensures global stability prevails against the threat against freedom posed by rising challengers</span>**
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Zalmay </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, former US ambassador to the UN and Iraq, still writing the best cards in debate, “The Economy and National Security,” National Review, 8 February </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2011</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=1]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">American retrenchment could have devastating consequences. </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Without an American security blanket, regional powers could rearm in an attempt to balance against emerging threats. Under this scenario, there would be a heightened possibility of arms races, miscalculation, or other crises spiraling into all-out conflict....China’s strategic modernization is aimed, ultimately, at denying the United States access to the seas around China. Even as cooperative economic ties in the region have grown, China’s expansive territorial claims — and provocative statements and actions following crises in Korea and incidents at sea — have roiled its relations with South Korea, Japan, India, and Southeast Asian states.</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Still, the United States is the most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Freedom comes before all other impacts. Loss of freedom leads to chaos, tyranny, and the end of human aspiration.</span>**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Sylvester </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Petro, </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">professor of law at Wake Forest, Spring197</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">4,</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Toledo Law Review, p480</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">However, one may still insist on echoing Ernest Hemingway –</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">“I believe in only one thing: liberty.”</span></span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">And it is always well to bear in mind David Hume’s observation</span><span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">: “</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">It is seldom that liberty of any kind is lost all at once.”</span>__ </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Thus, it is unacceptable to say that the invasion of one aspect of freedom is of no import because there have been invasions of so many other aspects.</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> That road leads to chaos, tyranny, despotism, and the end of all human aspiration</span></span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">. Ask Solzhenstyn, Ask Milovan Djilas. In sum</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">if one believes in freedom as a supreme value and proper ordering principle for any society aiming to maximize spiritual and material welfare, then every invasion of freedom must be emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit</span></span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>


== == 
==**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">2 – Education</span>**== 

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Going to the Moon Offers Opportunity for Research and Education</span>**
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Garan ‘10</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Ron Garan, NASA astronaut. “The Importance of Returning to the Moon” 3/30/2010, [[http://www.universetoday.com/61256/astronaut-explains-why-we-should-return-to-the-moon/]]</span><span style="color: #2a2a2a; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Great nations accomplish extraordinary endeavors that help to maintain their leadership in the world. America’s history is built on a desire to open new frontiers and to seek new discoveries. The creation of a permanent lunar base will inspire millions of young people toward higher education and help maintain our Nation’s technological leadership.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Space exploration encourages youth to pursue careers in STEM professions, this is key to US competiveness and provides for a better future.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hairston 06</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> ( John M. </span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hairston</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Jr., NASA assistant administrator for education (Human Space Exploration for All)</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">A CSIS-UNESCO Workshop ▪ October 4, 200</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">6</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> {Space Agency Education Objectives and Space Exploration Content})</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">NASA has</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> developed </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">an education portfolio strategic framework to work with the academic community to prepare the next generation of explorers and innovators. </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">JAXA </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">space education objectives are to assist in the maturation of children using space materials so that they understand the links among space, nature, people, and society, as well as science and technology. </span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Through their activities, </span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">JAXA aims to promote understanding of the thinking process behind the knowledge, increase appreciation of science and technology, and promote an understanding of the importance of contributing to building a better future. </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">JAXA develops education materials, publications, videos, and CD-ROMs for teachers. Ms. Chiku highlighted JAXA’s introductory education materials on space activities. She said they were developed for use at the beginning of a teaching unit of the existing curriculum in order to stimulate students’ interest in the subjects to be taught in the unit. She highlighted an example of how they use space materials in a homemaking course on learning about “living,” “eating,” and “housing.” The introductory materials use photographs from space that trace the evolution of food that astronauts have eaten in space from Mercury to the International Space Station today to stimulate the interest of students in this subject.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Education is critical to democracy and an informed citizenry</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kahlenberg</span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">03</span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Century Foundation Senior Fellow, American Education Expert, 2003 </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Richard, All Together Now, p. 13-14]</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Second</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">democracy requires a thinking people who are not easily swayed by demagoguery; and it requires that elites perceive a commitment to democratic </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">equality (respect for the concept of one person, one vote). Jefferson argued that</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">schools were necessary "to ensure that citizens would know how to protect their liberty</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">."...</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Groups that are successful, economically and socially, may not naturally come to tolerance and to the idea of democracy, in which all citizens have equal political rights. Public schools can help nip budding feelings of superiority that certain privileged races or economic groups might feel.</span>


<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">US domestic commitment to democratic norms is critical to prevent a global authoritarian resurgence</span>
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mendelson, 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> CSIS Human Rights and Security Initiative Director, April</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Sarah, "Dusk or Dawn for the Human Rights Movement," http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Mendelson.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">...</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">whatever happens in the United States has disproportionate, negative or positive, consequences for human rights defenders around the world</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Former chief justice of South Africa Arthur Chaskalson, reporting as part of the Eminent Jurists Panel conducting hearings in recent years on the legal and human rights implications of counterterrorist policies in 39 countries for the Geneva-based International Commission of Jurists, states that </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">the world is ‘‘losing respect for human rights’’ and links this decline directly to the actions of</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bush</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">administration.41</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">The erosion of human rights norms and laws seems to have enabled the negative political trajectory of several</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Eurasian</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">states</span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">. </span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">U.S. authorities lost much, if not all, ...you are creating a situation of potential grave abuse, where the people best able to fight that abuse are in a state of extreme despair and discouragement.’’</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">43 In other words, human rights abuse by major powers has had a destabilizing effect more generally in the international system. </span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">US reforms and commitment to democracy is critical to reignite and sustain global democratic momentum</span>
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Diamond</span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, Stanford University Hoover Institution senior fellow, 200**8** </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Larry, The Spirit of Democracy, 344]</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">There are genuine grounds for concern, sobriety, modesty, and reassessment—but not for democratic despair. As I show in this book,</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">there remains</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">considerable underlying</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">momentum and potential for democratic progress in the world</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">. </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Increasingly</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">democratic values</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">and aspirations</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">are becoming universal—even in the</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">supposedly unfriendly </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">MiddleEast...</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">The underlying dynamics of global economic and political development</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, and the broad trends in world culture and institutions, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">remain quite favorable to democracy in the long run. Shrewd and visionary policies emanating from the</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> established democracies—led, but in a far more collegial fashion, by the </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">U</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">nited </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">S</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">tates—</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">could reignite and sustain global democratic momentum.</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Reinvigorating US democratic commitment and education is critical to prevent multiple scenarios for global destruction</span>
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Small, 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, DC Superior Court Law Clerk, J.D., Former Human Services Coalition Americorps VISTA, Spring 2006</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Jonathan, “Moving Forward,” The Journal for Civic Commitment, http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.jsp]</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">What will be the challenges of the new millennium? And how should we equip young people to face these challenges? While we cannot be sure of the exact nature of the challenges, we can say unequivocally that humankind will face them together. If the end of the twentieth century marked the triumph of the capitalists, individualism, and personal responsibility, </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">the new century will present challenges that require collective action, unity, and enlightened self-interest. Confronting global warming, depleted natural resources, global super viruses, global crime syndicates, and multinational corporationswith no conscience and no accountability will require cooperation, openness, honesty, compromise, and most of allsolidarity </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">– ideals not exactly cultivated in the twentieth century. We can no longer suffer to see life through the tiny lens of our own existence. Never in the history of the world has our collective fate been so intricately interwoven. </span>**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our very existence</span>__**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> depends upon our ability to adapt to this new paradigm, to envision a more cohesive society. With humankind’s next great challenge comes also great opportunity. Ironically, modern individualism backed us into a corner. We have two choices, work together in solidarity or </span>**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">perish together in alienation</span>__**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">.</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> ....</span>**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">part of our challenge becomes convincing the youth that these systems, and by systems we mean government and commerce, have the potential for positive change.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">C</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">ivic engagement consequently takes on a more specific and political meaning in this context. Service learning is a methodology and a tool for teaching social justice, encouraging civic engagement, and deepening practical understanding of a subject. Since it is a relatively new field, at least in the structured sense, service learning is only beginning to define itself. Through service learning students learn by experiencing things firsthand and by exposing themselves to new points of view. Instead of merely reading about government, for instance, a student might experience it by working in a legislative office. Rather than just studying global warming out of a textbook, a student might volunteer time at an environmental group. If service learning develops and evolves into a discipline with the honest goal of making better citizens, teaching social justice, encouraging civic engagement, and most importantly, exposing students to different and alternative experiences, it could be a major feature of a modern education. Service learning is the natural counterbalance to our current overemphasis on standardized testing. Social justice, civic engagement, and service learning are caught in a symbiotic cycle. The more we have of one of them; the more we have of all of them. However, until we get momentum behind them, we are stalled. Service learning may be our best chance to jumpstart our democracy. In the rest of this paper, we will look at the beginning stages of a project that seeks to do just that.</span>



==**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Solvency</span>**== 

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">A NASA-led return to the moon is entirely feasible and catalyzes investment to retrieve its natural resources</span>**
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Paul D. </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Spudis</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute and former Deputy Leader of the Science Team for the Department of Defense Clementine mission to the Moon, “Can NASA Get Its Groove Back?” Air & Space, 6 November </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2010</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, http://blogs.airspacemag.com/moon/2010/11/can-nasa-get-its-groove-back/</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">...</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The pathway that assured us that space exploration is cool, amazing and pushes excellence has disappeared, littered instead by U-turns and Stop signs</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">. NASA’s groove was the right stuff. When did vanish? Can we get it back? </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">America’s rhythm is stalled</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">. Movement in our economy is going the wrong way. Education standards are mediocre. We’re not evolving. We’re not in our groove. And the country feels it. Is NASA’s dilemma symptomatic of what ails us? “If we could put a man on the Moon..” has become cliché but was the zenith of American exceptionalism. </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The last time a human walked on the Moon was in December 1972</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> – 38 years ago next month. </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">NASA has long since stopped getting “free drinks” from the retelling of that decades old conquest. It’s time to light the fire again and do something profound, this time something cumulative and lasting. Conquering the Moon is where we found our groove and if we choose, where we can reclaim it. NASA languished a year waiting to hear what, where and when their mission would be. They’re still waiting, as NASA ponders how to proceed on the “Flexible Path” to their ultimate goal of Mars</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">. ...</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">A return to the Moon to learn how to use its resources is achievable using existing technology and within the decade-long timescales demanded by our political process.</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Exploration of non-earth celestial bodies solves for recourse wars, authoritarianism, and environmental challenges, and the economy. The time for a fundamental change to create a better future is now. Only plan solves**.</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Whitesides 08</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (George T. </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Whitesides</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> executive director national space society before the subcommittee on space, aeronautics, and related sciences, Senate Hearing on “Reauthorizing the Vision for Space Exploration” May 7, 200</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">8</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Chairman Nelson, Ranking Member Vitter, and members of the subcommittee. [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=27921]] )</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">The first theme anchors the Vision to </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">the real challenges facing America today, creating real sustainability. That</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, in turn, </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">will</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> help build </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">public understanding and support for NASA</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">’smission....</span>There has never been a better time for a fundamental change in our perception of the future. If mankind can access resources beyond Earth, we can offer the hope of economic well-being and a clean environment for all, and avoid debilitating future resource conflicts that will only make us all poorer. America's space program must be oriented toward creating this future.

=Negative= 
==Pragmatic Eco-ism Kritik== 
== == 
==Decadal CP w/ Politics NB== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]