[[toc]]
=Counterplans= 
=== === 
===Privatization CP=== 

**Text: The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should establish a Centennial Challenge for developing Solar Powered Satellites.**

**Centennial Challenges promote low-cost tech development and space missions. They’re modeled on past successes and can solve the aff**
**Cain—** publisher of Universe Today, VP and Partner of Communicate.com; a website development agency, co-founder and inventor of CompuTrace, **04**, (April 29, 2004, Fraser, Universe Today, “NASA’s X-Prize Looking for Ideas” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.universetoday.com/9536/nasas-x-prize-looking-for-ideas/]]</span>, MA)

The NASA program that offers cash prizes...for this exciting program," he said
=== === 
===StratoSats CP=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">T</span>**<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">ext: </span>**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">The United States federal government should substantially increase its Earth Observation capabilities using stratospheric satellites designed not to extend beyond Earth’s mesosphere. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">A. Competition</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">The mesosphere is above the stratosphere</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">National Weather Service, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(“Layers of the Atmosphere”, 2/11, [[http://www.srh.noaa.gov/jetstream/atmos/layers.htm|http://www.srh.noaa.gov/jetstream//atmos/layers.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Stratosphere The Stratosphere AND thermosphere is called the mesopause.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> B. Solvency</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">StratoSats solve climate monitoring</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Pankine et al 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> [Alexey, Zhanqing Li, David Parsons, Michael Purucker, Elliot Weinstock, Warren Wiscombe, and Kerry Nock, “Stratospheric Satellites for Earth Observations,” American Meterological Society August 2009, [[http://denali.gsfc.nasa.gov/research/purucker/pankine_stratsats_bams_2009.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">At present, no investment AND perceived are certain to emerge.</span>
=== === 
===China Coop CP=== 

<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The United States federal government should:</span>**</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">- Ratify and enforce the Treaty on the Prevention of the Placement of Weapons in Outer Space, the Threat or Use of Force Against Outer Space Objects. </span>**</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">- Propose an amendment to ban the development and testing of anti-satellite weapons and space based ballistic missile defense. </span>**</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">-</span>**</span>**<span style="color: black;"> <span class="apple-style-span">Declare a no first use policy directed towards China</span></span>**
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">-</span>**</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> Cooperate with China over joint climate and clean energy legislature, projects, and developments.</span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">-</span>**<span class="Heading1Char"> **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% white; color: black;">And</span>**</span>**<span style="background: white; color: black;"> stop all its arms sales to Taiwan</span>**

**A. Solvency**

**PPWT increases transparency, prevents an arms race, and increases cooperation**
**<span class="Author-Date">Vasiliev 8</span>** (Victor Vasiliev, political counselor for the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, 4/1/08, "The Draft Treaty On The Prevention Of The Placement Of Weapons In Outer Space, The Threat Or Use Of Force Against Outer Space Objects" [[http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2822.pdf|www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2822.pdf]])

So, <span class="DebateUnderline">why do we AND humankind wants to avoid.</span>

**An NFU solves all possible escalation for war.**
**Blair 5.** [Bruce Blair, President – World Security Institute, “General Zhu and Chinese Nuclear Preemption”, China Security, 1, Autumn, [[http://www.wsichina.org/attach/china_security.pdf]]]

U.S. policy has never AND eager to hear, and debate.

<span class="Underline">**US-China Cooperation on Climate Key Apriority to Increase Relations and Bilateral Cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Lieberthal and Sandalow 8 </span>**(Kenneth is Professor of Political Science and Professor of Business Administration at the University of Michigan. Visiting Fellow in Foreign Policy Studies at The Brookings Institution. Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and Senior Director for Asia on the National Security Council B.A. from Dartmouth College, and two M.A.’s and a Ph.D. in Political Science from Columbia University. David Sandalow is Energy & Environment Scholar and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans, Environment & Science; Senior Director for Environmental Affairs, National Security Council; Associate Director for the Global Environment, White House Council on Environmental Quality. He is a graduate of the University of Michigan Law School (JD) and Yale College (BA Philosophy) “Overcoming Obstacles to U.S.-China Cooperation on Climate Change.” 2008. [[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/rc/reports/2009/01_climate_change_lieberthal_sandalow/01_climate_change_lieberthal_sandalow.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/reports/2009/01_climate_change_lieberthal_sandalow/01_climate_change_lieberthal_sandalow.pdf]]</span>

<span class="Underline">The time for large-scale AND promote economic recovery. </span>

**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% white; color: black;">Arms sales to Taiwan ruin recovering China relations -- CP boosts the overall relationship.</span>**
<span style="color: black;"> **<span style="background: white;">Reuters, 11</span>**<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="background: white;">(Reuters News, 5/7/11, “China says U.S. must stop Taiwan arms sales,” JPL)</span></span></span>

<span style="background: white;">(Reuters) - The United States will AND</span> Yang said.

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">B. Net Benefit</span>**

**Cooperation on Climate is Key to Solve Warming**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Marchetti 11</span>** (Nino “U.S., China Find Clean Energy Common Ground.”January 22, 2011. [[http://uk.ibtimes.com/articles/20110122/uchina-find-clean-energy-common-ground.htm]].)

The official state visit by AND to the entire world."

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Warming leads to extinction</span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Sify India News 10 </span>**(“Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?” June 20, 2010. [[http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html]].)

Scientists have AND to a GCI release.









[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"> <span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The United States federal government should:</span>**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"> <span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">- Ratify and enforce the Treaty on the Prevention of the Placement of Weapons in Outer Space, the Threat or Use of Force Against Outer Space Objects. </span>**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"> <span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">- Propose an amendment to ban the development and testing of anti-satellite weapons and space based ballistic missile defense. </span>**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"> <span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">-</span>**</span>**<span style="color: black;"> <span class="apple-style-span">Declare a no first use policy directed towards China</span></span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"> <span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">-</span>**</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> Cooperate with China over joint climate and clean energy legislature, projects, and developments.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">-<span class="Heading1Char"><span style="background: white; color: black;"> And</span></span></span>**<span style="background: white; color: black;"> stop all its arms sales to Taiwan</span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; text-autospace: none;"> </span>