AC:
<span class="s1">I can affirm with any set of definitions. This is the way language is commonly understood. If I said “There is a key outside my window.,” that would be true if there was “something to unlock doors,” “an island chain,” or a piano key. Language only has meaning as a system of conventions and the meaning of the topic must be preserved to debate, so prefer this understanding of the topic.</span>

<span class="s1">Because the resolution questions the requirements of justice, I value **Justice**, which is defined as “the quality of being fair.” </span>

<span class="s1">Justice rejects arbitrariness since fairness is intrinsically consistent. So, the neg can't say justice is culturally defined. </span>

<span class="s1">Further, rights cannot be based from individuals’ claims on one another since fairness is an external metric. So, the neg can’t say animals don’t get rights since they can’t communicate with us.</span>

<span class="s1">The neg can’t say justice is contradictory or cannot exist. The resolution doesn't deem justice perfect; so, it’s still possible that justice requires animal rights, despite its broader imperfections that deny its achievability.</span>

<span class="s1">If any animals are due rights, affirm. Rights is plural, so I only have to prove that more than one right should be recognized.</span>

<span class="s1">If this is not true, that would require us to base our interpretation of the resolution off no other given qualifications. The resolution doesn’t specify “all” or “some” animal rights. When there is no qualifier to specify what quantity, the resolution must be considered a general statement since that is what is intuitively assumed. If I said “I like cookies.,” it wouldn’t be sufficient to show there was one nasty cookie that I didn’t like to disprove the statement. A general statement doesn’t include the special cases of either side, but instead focuses on the idea itself. The idea itself is what is central to what we consider to be animal. </span>

<span class="s1">From the New Oxford American Dictionary, an animal is “a mammal, as opposed to a bird, reptile, fish, or insect”. This is the definition closest to the idea itself because it separates out lesser categories that are not most commonly thought of as animals, and thus gives the general interpretation. </span>

<span class="s1">And</span><span class="s2">, Tom </span><span class="s1">Regan</span><span class="s2">, author of “The Case for Animal Rights,” </span><span class="s1">defines the line for animal rights as “</span><span class="s2">mentally normal </span><span class="s3">mammals</span><span class="s2"> of a year or more.</span><span class="s1">” Prefer his definition since it comes from the topic literature. </span>

<span class="s1">Topic literature is vital to defining the topic since it provides the base of our researching. Else, debate would be reduced to each debater making unfalsifiable assertions. Topic literature discusses the issue of the resolution, so it should have the authority to define what it talks about.</span>

<span class="s1">The topic literature also distinguishes between theoretical and rhetorical rights.</span><span class="s2"> Elisa </span><span class="s1">Aatola</span><span class="s2">, author of “Animal Ethics and Interest Conflicts,” </span><span class="s1">explains the difference:</span>

<span class="s4">“</span><span class="s1">A further, but related problem emerges from semantic ambiguity. </span><span class="s5">It is important to note the difference between theoretical</span><span class="s1"> rights </span><span class="s5">and rhetorical rights. The former are based on theoretical claims, and the latter are a method of pointing attention toward moral problems, but do not</span><span class="s1">necessarily </span><span class="s5">entail a belief in rights theory, and can</span><span class="s1"> actually </span><span class="s5">exist in conflict with that theory.</span><span class="s1">7 The theoretical rights suffer from the traditional difficulties associated with rights theory, such as overt objectivism and intuitionism, stemming from the at times obscure bases of rights (Rowlands 1998, 110–15; Pluhar 1995, 233–40). The rhetorical rights, on the other hand, have been criticized on three counts: vagueness, over-use, and lack of necessity. It has been claimed that they often confuse the moral and legal aspects of rights so that the two become indistinguishable; that they have suffered from overuse up to a point of inflation, as many groups argue for rights without actually being able to stipulate the theoretical basis of such rights; and that they are not necessary for ethics (Frey 1980, 4–7; 1983, 46–52; Midgley 1983, 61–64; Singer 1995). Moreover, often these two types are confused with each other when theoretical rights are mistakenly criticized for being mere rhetoric.</span>
<span class="s1">In defense of theoretical rights it has to be noted that some rights the- orists have tried to correct the problem of overt objectivism by basing rights on something more localized, such as human epistemology (see Pluhar 1995),and that even the standard accounts do not rely on notions of utterly neutral, ontologically independent rights. Similarly, rhetorical rights may be defended, for despite their shortcomings (as seen in the course of history),they do serve as important tools for political and moral change (Almond 1991; Sapontzis 1987,82–84).The only thing necessary is to pay attention to exactly what type of role rights in different contexts are meant to play. However, even with these corrections, rights theories often remain too abstract. </span><span class="s5">Rhetorical rights do not</span><span class="s1"> so much </span><span class="s5">solve interest conflicts as simply point them out.</span><span class="s1"> This means that while </span><span class="s5">the language of rights is both useful and important (obviously animal rights rhetoric, and</span><span class="s1"> also </span><span class="s5">philosophers</span><span class="s1"> such as Regan, </span><span class="s5">have contributed a great deal to “animal liberation”)</span><span class="s1">, it has limits when it comes to addressing interest conflicts at large. </span><span class="s5">Rights are necessary from the point of view of individual value</span><span class="s4">,</span><span class="s1"> but not enough from the point of view of conflict between individuals.</span><span class="s4">”</span>

<span class="s1">The resolution merely asks us to recognize animal rights and not evaluate a rights conflict, so the topic is about rhetorical rights; and, I must only show animals have worth.</span>

<span class="s1">Further, anything the neg might say about why rights are a bad way to conceptualize worth are irrelevant since this only addresses the theoretical model of resolving rights conflicts. These arguments would merely give additional reasons why the topic should be about rhetorical rights.</span>

<span class="s1">If the neg says positive obligations don't exist, then rights cannot include these since a right is defined as something “morally good or justified”</span><span class="s2"> (New Oxford American Dictionary)</span><span class="s1">. So, the neg can't say animals don't have rights on the basis that they are positive obligations, since their own argument would disprove the applicability of their criticism.</span>

<span class="s1">And since the resolution only requires that I recognize animals have rights, I do not have to comparatively prove they have the same amount of worth as humans, but the AC goes above and beyond to prove animals are morally equal to all other pain sensing beings. Equality just requires that we take interests into account indiscriminately, not that we treat everyone the same.</span><span class="s2"> Peter </span><span class="s1">Singer</span><span class="s2">, author of “Animal Liberation,” </span><span class="s1">1:</span>

<span class="s4">“</span><span class="s1">It is an implication of this principle of equality that our concern for others and our readiness to consider their interests ought not to depend on what they are like or on what abilities they may possess. </span><span class="s5">Precisely what our concern</span><span class="s1">or consideration </span><span class="s5">requires us to do may vary</span><span class="s1"> according to the characteristics of those affected by what we do: </span><span class="s5">concern for the well-being of children</span><span class="s1"> growing up in America </span><span class="s5">would require that we teach them to read; concern for the well-being of pigs</span><span class="s1"> may </span><span class="s5">require[s]</span><span class="s1"> no more than </span><span class="s5">that we leave them with other pigs in a place where there is adequate food and room to run freely. But the basic element-the taking into account</span><span class="s1"> of </span><span class="s5">the interests of the being</span><span class="s1">, whatever those interests may be- </span><span class="s5">must be according to the principle of equality</span><span class="s1">, be extended to all beings, black or white, masculine or feminine, human or nonhuman.</span><span class="s4">”</span>

<span class="s1">So, the AC proves that animals and humans are equal since it shows that we should indiscriminately take into account interests.</span>
<span class="s1">Pain is a necessary and sufficient boundary for determining interests. Singer 2:</span>

<span class="s4"> “</span><span class="s1">In this passage Bentham points to the capacity for suffering as the vital characteristic that gives a being the right to equal consideration.</span><span class="s5">The capacity for suffering</span><span class="s1">- or more strictly, for suffering and/ or enjoyment or happiness-</span><span class="s5"> is not just another characteristic like the capacity for language</span><span class="s1"> or higher mathematics. Bentham is not saying that those who try to mark “the insuperable line” that determines whether the interests of a being should be considered happen to have chosen the wrong characteristic. By saying that we must consider the interests of all beings with the capacity for suffering or enjoyment Bentham does not arbitrarily exclude from consideration any interests at all-as those who draw the line with reference to the possession of reason or language do. </span><span class="s5">The capacity for suffering</span><span class="s1"> and enjoyment </span><span class="s5">is a prerequisite for having interests at all</span><span class="s1">, a condition that must be satisfied before we can speak of interests in a meaningful way. </span><span class="s5">It would be nonsense to say that it was not in the interests of a stone to be kicked</span><span class="s1"> along the road by a schoolboy. A stone does not have interests because </span><span class="s5">[since]</span><span class="s1"> it cannot suffer. </span><span class="s5">Nothing</span><span class="s1"> that </span><span class="s5">we can do to it</span><span class="s1"> could possibly make any difference to </span><span class="s5">[effects] its welfare. The capacity for suffering</span><span class="s1"> and enjoyment </span><span class="s5">is</span><span class="s1">, however, not only necessary, but </span><span class="s5">also sufficient</span><span class="s1"> for us </span><span class="s5">to say that a being has interests</span><span class="s1">- at an absolute minimum,</span><span class="s5">an interest in not suffering. A mouse</span><span class="s1"> for example, </span><span class="s5">does have an interest in not being kicked</span><span class="s1"> along the road, because </span><span class="s5">[since] it</span><span class="s1"> will </span><span class="s5">[would] suffer</span><span class="s1"> if it is.</span><span class="s4">”</span>
<span class="s1">Pain is the only defensible boundary for inclusion in moral calculi. Any other moral boundary between beings is equatable to racism. Singer 3:</span>

<span class="s1">“</span><span class="s3">If a being suffers there can be no moral justification for refusing to take that suffering into consideration. No matter what the nature of the being</span><span class="s6">, the principle of </span><span class="s3">equality requires that its suffering be counted equally with</span><span class="s6"> the </span><span class="s3">like suffering</span><span class="s6">-insofar as rough comparisons can be made-of any other being. </span><span class="s3">If a being is not capable of suffering</span><span class="s6">, or of experiencing enjoyment of happiness, </span><span class="s3">there is nothing to be taken into account. So the limit of sentience</span><span class="s6"> (using the term as a convenient if not strictly accurate shorthand for the capacity to suffer and/ or experience enjoyment) </span><span class="s3">is the only defensible boundary of concern for the interests of others. To mark this boundary by some other characteristic like intelligence or rationality would be</span><span class="s6"> to mark it in an </span><span class="s3">arbitrary </span><span class="s6">manner. </span><span class="s3">Why not choose</span><span class="s6"> some other characteristic, like </span><span class="s3">skin color?</span>
<span class="s1">¨¨ </span><span class="s3">Racists violate</span><span class="s6"> the principle of </span><span class="s3">equality by giving greater weight to the interests of members of their own race when there is a clash between their interests and the interests</span><span class="s6"> of those </span><span class="s3">of another race.</span><span class="s6"> Sexists violate the principle of equality by favoring the interests of their own sex. </span><span class="s3">Similarly, speciesists allow the interests of their own species to override the greater interests of members of other species. The pattern is identical</span><span class="s2"> in each case.</span><span class="s1">”</span>
<span class="s1">Thus, the criterion for recognition of rights is **the capacity for suffering**. This sufficiently meets justice since Singer explains that we must take all suffering into consideration to properly assign due.</span>

<span class="s1">Practical Reason cannot be used to decide what framework is correct. It cannot provide a reason to be rational, but rather assumes that we are rational. Thus, practical reason can only say whether someone acted rationally not whether the action was morally right, and thus doesn’t answer the resolutional question.</span>

<span class="s1">Rationality cannot decide moral worth. 1) There is no briteline for how much rationality is needed to attain rights. If it’s scalar, then animals would have rights since they are capable of at least some mental tasks. 2) Babies and the mentally enfeebled are still rights holders, despite their irrationality.</span>

<span class="s1">I contend animals have the capacity to suffer.</span>

<span class="s1">Science has conclusively proven animals can feel pain. Singer 4:</span>

<span class="s4">“</span><span class="s5">Nearly all the external signs that lead us to infer pain in</span><span class="s1"> other </span><span class="s5">humans can be seen in other species</span><span class="s1">, especially the species most closely related to us-the species of mammals and birds. the behavioral </span><span class="s5">signs include</span><span class="s1"> writhing, facial contortions, moaning, </span><span class="s5">yelping</span><span class="s1"> or other forms of calling, </span><span class="s5">attempts to avoid the source of pain</span><span class="s1">, appearance of fear at the prospect of its repetition, </span><span class="s5">and so on. In addition, we know</span><span class="s1"> that these </span><span class="s5">animals have nervous systems</span><span class="s1"> very like ours, </span><span class="s5">which respond physiologically</span><span class="s1"> as ours do when the animal is in circumstances in which we would feel pain: an initial rise of blood pressure, dilated pupils, perspiration, an increased pulse rate, and, if the stimulus continues, a fall in blood pressure. </span><span class="s5">Although human[s]</span><span class="s1"> beings </span><span class="s5">have a more developed cerebral cortex</span><span class="s1"> than other animals, </span><span class="s5">this part of the brain is concerned with thinking</span><span class="s1"> funcitions </span><span class="s5">rather than</span><span class="s1"> with basic impulses, emotions, and </span><span class="s5">feelings. These</span><span class="s1"> impulses, imotions and </span><span class="s5">feelings are located in the diencephalon, which is well developed in many other species of animals, especially mammals and birds.</span><span class="s4">”</span>

<span class="s1">Thus, animals are capable of suffering and are due rights to not suffer since they can feel pain.</span>

<span class="s1">NC:</span>
<span class="s1">Partiality NC</span>

<span class="s1">I value Justice, as per the resolution.</span>

<span class="s1">The only source of normativity beyond the self is friendship. Without accepting this ethic, life has no meaning and justice cannot exist as the only way the state can exist is through this bond.</span><span class="s2"> Bernard </span><span class="s1">Rollin</span><span class="s2">, author of “Reasonable Partiality and Animal Ethics”, quoting and summarizing Aristotle and Hume</span><span class="s1">:</span>

<span class="s3">“</span><span class="s1">Rational partiality towards one's friends and family (spouse, children, parents and relatives) is a major feature in Aristotle's ethics. In fact, a discussion of friendship (philia), comprises a full one- fifth of the Nico machean Ethics (Edel, 1982, p. 309). </span><span class="s4">"Friendship" for Aristotle</span><span class="s1"> is more inclusive than it is for us; it </span><span class="s4">includes love, marriage, and feeling for one's relatives, as well as what we call friendship. Such philia is biologically rooted, to be found in</span><span class="s1"> "birds and most </span><span class="s4">animals"</span><span class="s1"> (Nicomachean Ethics, 1155a). "Without friends," says Aristotle, "</span><span class="s4">no one would choose to live, though he had all other goods; even</span><span class="s1"> rich men and </span><span class="s4">those in possession</span><span class="s1"> of office and </span><span class="s4">of dominating power</span><span class="s1"> are thought to </span><span class="s4">need friends </span><span class="s1">most of all; </span><span class="s4">for what is the use of</span><span class="s1"> such </span><span class="s4">prosperity without the opportunity of beneficence</span><span class="s1">, which is exercised chiefly and in its most laudable form towards friends." (Nicomachean Ethics, 1155a). </span><span class="s4">The moral priority of one's obligations towards the immediate circle</span><span class="s1"> one is bonded to by philia is taken for granted by Aristotle, and is indeed seen "to </span><span class="s4">hold[s] states together"</span><span class="s1"> (Nicomachean Ethics, 1155a). And"when men are friends they have no need of justice, while when they are just they need friendship as well, and </span><span class="s4">the truest form of justice is</span><span class="s1"> thought to be a </span><span class="s4">friendly quality"</span><span class="s1"> (Nicomachean Ethics, 1155a). Thus,</span><span class="s4"> the priority of moral obligations to one's own is</span><span class="s1"> seen as </span><span class="s4">a natural fact</span><span class="s1"> by Aristotle, who would doubtless have marveled at Kant's attempt to make such obligations equally binding with regard to all rational beings. This is similarly the case with Hume, who sees love of family as the first step by which people transcend pure selfishness. </span><span class="s4">Familial affection is the ultimate source of moral thought beyond oneself: </span>

<span class="s4">‘</span><span class="s1">In the original frame of our mind, </span><span class="s4">our strongest attention is confined to ourselves; our next is extended to our relations</span><span class="s1"> and acquaintances; </span><span class="s4">and tis only the weakest which reaches to strangers</span><span class="s1"> and indifferent persons. Our natural, uncultivated ideas of morality, instead of providing a remedy for the partiality of our affections, do rather conform themselves to that partiality and give it an additional force and influence (Hume, 1739, ed. Selby-Bigge p. 489).’</span>

<span class="s1">Indeed the only remedy to possible excesses stemming from the natural hold of partiality is through "artifice", or convention, which creates a broader sense of justice necessary for the survival and well-being of all (including those in our circle we are inclined to favor!) (Hume, 1739). Thus perhaps the two greatest moral philosophers of common sense and common experience, Aristotle and Hume, see rational partiality as the inevitable foundation of morality. In particular, both see friendship and love and family as the most fundamental source of the experience of caring for others outside oneself. Indeed, </span><span class="s4">only a full blown rationalist could ignore the strength and hold of caring for others we are close to in favor of basing morality solely on abstract reason.</span><span class="s3">”</span>

<span class="s1">Reject standards like the AC’s that assume reasons to act without going into why we should act on their impacts. Only Rollin shows why we can be obligated to act as it talks about why things should matter to us. The only thing the AC standard does is appeal to our communal standards for acting on impacts.</span>

<span class="s1">Thus, the only necessary quality of justice, and the criterion, is **respecting partiality toward community**. </span>

<span class="s1">This is not the ethic of care. I’m not saying that we all have to be nice to each other, but that the only way we can be obligated to do anything is from communal norms. So, turns that say people are mean to each other when you negate, don’t link.</span>

<span class="s1">And as Rollins partially explained, if the standard isn’t used, justice can’t exist since bonds of friendship are what hold states and agents together in a collective that can be distributed due. So, if the aff argues against the standard, it’s impossible to affirm. This comes before the aff standard since if justice can’t exist, then it can’t require things like what the aff attempts.</span>

<span class="s1">I contend the resolution cannot be affirmed since it requires setting a necessary quality of justice. Justice cannot have any other necessary components besides the criterion, as all other standards are communally formed. Thus, the resolution must be negated, as a lack of animal rights recognition could exist in contradiction to those norms, as the norms are formed by individual communities.</span>