[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Afrofuturism 1AC== 
**Your dispassion, obsession, escalating my rage**
**Conceil me, don’t tell me, just keep me in a cage**
**Unexperienced, wild, born fully black**
**We were beaten, we were feared, but yo we back**
**Hidden and conceiled, we are not in this sport**
**As close we get is probably guilty in court**
**I’m smart but I can’t prove it, I don’t got the chance**
**When I say racisms bad, you want me to explain**
**Black morals I was raised with are suddenly lost**
**Its suddenly about winning but at what cost**
**Cuz if I lose who I am, they kill my fire**
**That’s why im not here to win, im here to inspire**
**School where im from its completely inate**
**They don’t teach this language, the language of debate**
**I spent years tryin to learn it im still not fluent**
**And I had no choice I was forced to do it**
**And when I spoke your language, all I got was kritiks**
**“Black girl theres something wrong with the way you speak”**
**As a novice, I felt like a pawn, not understanding a thing I heard**
**Your debate scoffed at me, saying, “these are simple words”**
**Taught to question the world, now nothing makes sense**
**Black lives lose value but it’s all about space presence**
**You wanna take a leap, well, I’m about to go**
**Out this society to the world unknown**
**Afrofuturism, baby imma bout to be**
**Out of the oppression of this society.**
**You have the nerve to explore space literally**
**When you’ve got a completely wrong mentality**
**“If we stay, we’re gonna all die.”**
**Well, congragulations at least you know**
**Where white supremacy will ultimately go**
**This idea of “fixing ourselves” by going up there**
**No one cares about the problems that we dealing with here.**
**America needs help, im a living testimony**
**Unemployment, no education, loss of money**
**Desperacy, murder, children without refuge**
**The govt hates us and we hate them too**
**At night I go to bed and pray to Jesus**
**That the govt will finally learn to accept us**
**And if I gotta lose six rounds to say it straight**
**You’re about to learn about why I hate**
**Having to debate about the obliteration of black’s fate**
**And if it takes six rounds and 10 competitions**
**You’re gonna understand real dedication.**
**<span style="color: #1a1818; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">On first glance the resolution seemed to be another chance for the society to influence imperialism and white supremacy in the minds of youth. However, after viewing the resolution in an afrocentric viewpoint, My partner and I realized that topics about space are the best topic for which we can begin exploring beyond the current structure of debate. This metaphor allows us to explore the “unknown” that is barely ever spoken of in policy debate</span>**

**//The Purpose://**
**//SUBSTANTIATE MEANINGFUL EPISTEMOLOGICAL GROWTH//**
**//We pedagogically prioritize purpose allowing epistemological growth to ALTER the social structure. Moving BEYOND the limits of WINS/LOSSES, we strive to make the WIN matter, to make debate matter, to DEVELOP self through the exploration of the discussion that happen within debate rounds. My blackness is a process that NEVER ends an ongoing dynamic that is fostered within the process of debate, I AM BLACK, I AM DEBATE//**
**//OUR DISCUSSION OF THE TOPIC BEGINS WITH A REINTERPRETATION OF SPACE//**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Space is the unknown that offers the potential of unlimited benefits a chance to start over once we have exhausted the possibilities of exploitation that are harnessed within our grasp.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">MILLS </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Charles-; //The Racial Contract//; p. 1-3</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">RESOLVED:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD INCREASE ITS SPACE EXPLORATION AND OR DEVELOPMENT BEYOND THE EARTH’S MESOPHERE</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">JUST LIKE</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">DECISIONMAKERS THAT REPRESENT OUR COMMUNITY SHOULD OPEN UP THE PEDAGOGICAL POSSIBILITIES THAT GO BEYOND THE LIMITS OF THE CURRENT STRUCTURES OF KNOWLEDGE.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">A metaphorical interpretation of the resolution solves best. It allows us as debaters to regain our agency and stop engaging in the collective hallucination of fiat. Like Elizabeth Jones says: My words right here, right now can’t change the state, but they can change the state of debate.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Dr. Reid-Brinkley, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">[Shanara Rose, Professor of African American Studies at Pittsburg University, “The Harsh Realities of ‘Acting Black’”: How African America Policy Debaters Negotiate Representation Through Racial Performance And Style, C.A.]</span>


**OUR SPEAKING STYLE IS IMPORTANT TO THE EVALUATION OF THE DEBATE**
**<span style="font-family: Wingdings;">è</span> Language functions as a model of one’s culture. Black language is an elaborate and unique speaking style that emphasizes performance and relies heavily on the use of Metaphors rejecting the SOLE reliance on logic and evidence. The use of black language is our defiance to the TOTAL INDOCTRINATION of white America.**
**Our metaphorical interpretation of the resolution is an active criticism that serves to liberate us by embracing and preserving unique Black culture.**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">HILL prof @ BIOLA University 1997</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Shelton K. -; //African American Students’ Motivation to Participate in intercollegiate Debate;// THE SOUTHERN JOURNAL OF FORENSICS 2 Fall 202-235;</span>


<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Play "Spaceship" – Kanye West</span>
<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Kanye shows his own experience. He points out that the oppression is giving him the urge to “grab a spaceship and fly”. Likewise, the oppression of our society has given us the urge to escape the bounds of white supremacy and dive into the unknown of afrofuturism.</span>


**The topic calls for us to debate space exploration. In debate this is science fiction because we fictionally pretend to be a government that will not change anything while debating the science of space. Science fiction needs to be retaken by the black subject through a process of Afro-futurism. How can a community whose history has been deliberately erased by white supremacy? By using afro futurism to place themselves outside of the system of white supremacy**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Dery ‘2 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Mark Dery, is a cultural critic. He edited Flame Wars: The Discourse of Cyberculture (Duke University Press, 1995) and wrote Escape Velocity: Cyberculture at the End of the Century (Grove Press, 1996). His collection of essays, The Pyrotechnic Insanitarium: American Culture on the Brink was published by Grove Press in February, 1999. He is an occasional writer for The New York Times Magazine, Rolling Stone, The Village Voice Literary Supplement, Suck, and Feed, and a frequent lecturer in the U.S. and Europe on new media, fringe thought, and unpopular culture, “Black to the Future: Afro-Futurism 1.0”, Mon Nov 04 2002, </span>[[http://detritus.net/contact/rumori/200211/0319.html]]<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Accessed 9/10/11] soap</span>


**Our framework for this debate round is who best engages in a consistent methodology for liberation of the oppressed through a three tier methodology. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Traditional knowledge production within the debate community privileges those with institutional power while excluding other forms of knowledge production. Our usage of hip hop, personal experiences, and organic intellectuals within debate makes alternative forms of knowledge production legitimate and checks the homogenizing function of 'expert' discourse.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">**Reid Brinkley ‘8** [Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83] </span>


**Performative pedagogy locates cultural power in the body and is a key methodology in breaking down white supremacy**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Warren and Fassett ‘4</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[The Johns Hopkins University Press. All rights reserved Theatre Topics 14.2 (2004) 411-430[[http://ezproxy.bgc.bard.edu:2053/journals/theatre_topics/v014/14.2warren.html#top|John T. Warren]] is an assistant professor in the School of Communication Studies at Bowling Green State University, where he teaches courses in performance, culture, identity, and power. [[http://ezproxy.bgc.bard.edu:2053/journals/theatre_topics/v014/14.2warren.html#top|Deanna L. Fassett]] is an assistant professor in the Department of Communication Studies at San José State University, where she teaches courses in instructional communication and critical, feminist, and performative pedagogies.]</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The detached stance of the policy maker in debate divorces us from true advocacy and is one of the most debilitating failures of contemporary education. Such as stance is linked to normative practices used to produce and maintain multiple networks of oppression.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Reid-Brinkley ‘8</span>** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pg. 118-120] soap</span>



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Debate attempts to make us have a head without a body- Educational space dominated by whiteness make the black body invisible. This stain in an academic space such as debate is seen as something that must be confined and intellectually imprisoned. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;"> Reid-Brinkley ‘8</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE"page 15] </span>


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">For this reason we believe that the body should be the center of our discussion as current educational spaces attempt to reinforce current power structures. The body is critical in our analysis of debate</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Reid-Brinkley ‘8</span>** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE"page 16] soap</span>


==2AC A2: Framework== 
**A. Counter-interpretation – View the resolution as a metaphor.**
**Answer Topicality with Framework. We don’t agree with the topicality of the resolution, thus we advocate a metaphorical interpretation. Our framework solves through the methodological approach. Through this approach we gain the epistemological growth that is required to debate.**
**B. Role of the Ballot- We don’t roleplay. We debate to gain epistemological growth. We signify correct methodology to ending white supremacy. We leave the round gaining epistemological growth.**
**C. Uniqueness – We control the direction or decision making. We don’t need movements or people. Brianna and I – together – can gain the epistemological growth and create a methodology that effectively fights white supremacy.**
**D. Our interpretation solves best for the debate round. We take out their argument by destroying their internal link. They may say that it’s not predictable, but they have no risk of their predictability arguments, for two reasons:**
# **Literature –**
**By rejecting afrocentrism, they are rejecting the Black culture, and thus advocating white supremacy.**
=Negative= 
==__Afrofuturism Kritik__== 
Same cards as the 1AC. Alternative text is the advocacy statement in the 1AC.

==2NC extensions== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">OUR </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">ENGAGEMENT </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">SUCCESSFULLY EXAMINES AND BREAKS DOWN WHITENESS. THE CRITICISM ALLOWS ROOM FOR SOCIAL CHANGE </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Ideologies shape our interpretation and understanding of some aspects of social existence such as the current power structure. But Hegemony is not coercive but the product of CONSENT of those who are subjugated. Hegemony is thus not stable but fluid and makes room for oppositional consciousness. Social Transformations through critical examinations of power relations is possible. Ideological rhetorical criticisms of race SOLVE</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">DR. CRENSHAW </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; </span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Space exploration and development uniquely perpetuates and expands the belief of white supremacy and manifest destiny that continues to create a system of hierarchal dominance. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Linda Billings, “Spaceflight, Culture, and Ideology ” 2010</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;"> [Juana Maria Rodriguez is Associate Professor of Gender and Women's Studies at UC Berkeley. She is the author of //Queer Latinidad: Identity Practices, Discursive Spaces// (NYU 2003) and has published numerous articles related to her research interests in sexuality studies, queer activism in a transnational context, critical race theory, technology and media arts, and Latin@ and Caribbean studies. She holds a B.A. in LiberalStudies from San Francisco State University, an MA in Comparative Literature from Columbia University and a Ph.D. in Ethnic Studies from UC Berkeley]</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">**THE METAPHOR IS BEST FOR HISTORICAL EDUCTION ON THE TOPIC**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">LIVELY </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">well known critic and Novelist </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">2000</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Adam-studied history and philosophy in England and London; phD student @ BurBack College University of London; //Masks: Blackness, Race, and the Imagination//; p. 1-2</span>