[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

Plan Text:
The United States __[[home|Federal Government]]__ should develop directed-energy laser weapons beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.

Contention One Inherency:
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Because of funding cuts, there are no plans for space based missile defense</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Mackenzie Eaglen 2010</span>**(Research Fellow for National Security Studies at the Allison Centery for Foreign Policy Studies at the Heritage Foundation. “Why Missile Defense is Still Needed” [[http://www.riponsociety.org/forum310g.htm]]</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __The administration’s plan …__ __eliminated for space.__</span>

**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Advantage One is Star Wars:</span>__**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space weaponization is inevitable- Other nations have the capability and it’s causing U.S. dominance in space to slip which is key to heg. Future conflict from this arms race is a certainty.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Kitfield 10</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">-Senior Correspondent @ The National Journal, writer for Air Force Magazine, B.A. Journalism, University of __[[home|Georgia]]__, distinguished writer on defense, national security, and foreign policy, author of two books on national security, [James, Air Force Magazine, “Crowded Congested Space” August 2010,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the “commons”</span> __<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">…</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the report concluded.</span>
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This space arms race results in nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hitchens 2K3</span>**

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Theresa, Editor of Defense News, Director of Center for Defense Information, Former director of British American</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Security Information Council -think tank based in __[[home|Washington]]__ and London. October 2.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.cdi.org/friendlyversion/printversion.cfm?documentID=1745]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The __negative consequences …__</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> arms control treaties.</span>
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Diminished US leadership increases the risk of war between multiple nations</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kagan 07-</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Institution, No. 144, August/September, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Current order…independent, nationalist Japan</span>
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">These go Nuclear</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kagan 07-</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Institution, No. 144, August/September, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The jostling for…them more catastrophic</span>
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The U.S. must weaponize space first so they can deter other nations from weaponizing space</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Dolman</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Everett C. "Strategy Lost: Taking the Middle Road to Nowhere." High Frontier Journal. Vol. 3, No. 1</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Winter,</span> **<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">2K5</span>**

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Common to all …</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">follows its counsel.</span>__
**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Advantage Two is China:</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">China will use Anti-Satellite weapons to attack US assets in space</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Choong 9</span>**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">- Senior Writer @ The Strait Times, The International Institute of Strategic Studies, [William, The Strait Times, “Reading too much into the stars?,” May 12, 2009, LexisNexis,]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">LAST month, China …</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and 1969 respectively.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Economy dependent on satellites</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Dowd 02,</span>** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">(World and I May 1, 2002 SECTION: No. 5, Vol. 17; Pg. NA ; ISSN: 0887-9346 HEADLINE: Taking the high ground –</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">The U.S. Military Marches Into Space. BYLINE: Dowd, Alan W,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __Space already plays … ever- increasing speed.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Economic decline causes extinction.</span>**</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">T.E.</span> **<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bearden</span>** **<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2k</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">LTC U.S. Army (ret) Director of Association of Distinguished American Scientists and Fellow Emeritus, Alpha Foundation’s Institute for Advanced __[[home|Study]]__, The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly, 6-24-2k,</span> <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm#_blank|http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm#_blank]]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">History bears out …</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> for many decades.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Space BMD dissuades China from attacking US satellites.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ashley **__Tellis 07__****,**Senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2007. 'China's Military Space Strategy', Survival, 49:3, 41 – 72, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/tellis_china_space1.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __This has led … US space assets.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Space BMD stops ASATs</span>**</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Howard</span> **<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kleinberg</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">,</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">member of the graduate faculty of the Department of Public & International Affairs at University of North Carolina Wilmington, April 20</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">. US Army Field Artillery Association, “A Global Missile Defense 'network': Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,”</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Fortunately, this recently -revealed, …</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">stop any ASAT</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**__Advantage Three is Asteroids:__**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">VERSCHUUR 1996</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In the past few years, the comet impact … human nature that will determine our fate.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Recent studies prove high risk of a strike</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Easterbrook, 8 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Gregg, American writer, lecturer, and a senior editor of The New Republic June 2008, Atlantic Magazine, “ The Sky Is Falling,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">Breakthrough ideas have a way of …</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">it’s like the entire human race is riding on the plane.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We have the ability to track asteroids, but not the ability to stop them, DE lasers are key</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogers 97</span>__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Lieutenant Colonel Mark Rogers, USAF, a 1976 graduate of the USAF Academy where he majored in physics, has been involved in defense-oriented research and development for the past twenty years, focusing primarily on applications of lasers for military systems. LASERS IN SPACE TECHNOLOGICAL OPTIONS FOR ENHANCING US MILITARY CAPABILITIES “Center for Strategy and Technology “</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.fas.org/spp/starwars/program/occppr02.htm]] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The threat of </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 24px;">anasteroid</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> or large … that imposes demanding requirements on the laser system. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Asteroid strike causes extinction and accesses all environmental impacts</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sidle 7</span>__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">(</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Roy, Slope Conservation Section, Geohazards Division, Disaster Prevention Research Institute, Kyoto University, Chapter 23: Hazard Risk Assessment of a Near Earth Object, in </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, SpringLink)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Very large asteroids (> several km) have impacted Earth in …could cause sea level rise and regional coastal flooding.</span>

**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention Two is Solvency:</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Directed energy weapons key to successful weapon advantage and ballistic missile defense</span>**</span>

<span style="color: #171717; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Bayram</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deveci</span>**<span style="color: #171717; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">,</span> <span style="color: #171717; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Doctorate at Naval Postgraduate School</span><span style="color: #171717; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">,</span> **<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">07</span>** <span style="color: #171717; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Naval Postgraduate School, “Directed-Energy Weapons: Invisible and Invincible?”, September 2007,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA473993&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #171717; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> ]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">1. Advantages of Directed-Energy …</span> __<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">damage and degradation</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">SBLs prevent all forms of WMD attacks</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Hardesty</span>**Captain David C. is is a member of the faculty of theNaval War College’s Strategy and Policy Department **’05** (Naval War College Review, “Space-Based Weapons: Long-Term Strategic Implications and Alternatives”, Spring 2005, Hopkins)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">Space-based weapons, …</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> this important mission.</span>
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">US Space Based BMD would deter all conflict</span>**

**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Lambakis, 07</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Steven, national security and international affairs analyst specializing in space power and policy studies, Managing Editor of Comparative Strategy, a leading international journal of global affairs and strategic studies, fellow at the National Institute for Public Policy. “Missile Defense From Space” 2-17-07.</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The policy benefits … participate in operations.</span>