[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
aff cites - Navin: [[@https://mail.google.com/mail/?view=cm&fs=1&tf=1&to=gopauln@bxscience.edu|gopauln@bxscience.edu]]

==Plan== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space for the purpose of developing a military launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, improvement of space situational awareness, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, hardening of military satellites, and the deployment of small satellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

==**1AC Deterrence**== 
===Advantage One is Deterrence=== 

**Current vulnerabilities in US space assets are the Achilles heel of deterrence –makes a space attack inevitable**
<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Rendleman, 10 –[</span> Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science]
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The</span> 11 January <span style="text-decoration: none;">2007 test of a Chinese</span> ground-based, direct-ascent anti-satellite (<span style="text-decoration: none;">ASAT</span>) kinetic-kill interceptor against one of their own defunct weather satellites generated considerable angst across the United States space community. The 2007<span style="text-decoration: none;"> test demonstrated that the importance of space capabilities is also their Achilles heel, that is, their deadly weakness in spite of overall strength; it is far too easy to neutralize space systems and their power</span>. In the broad strategic context, <span style="text-decoration: none;">space capabilities have their own set of unique, inherent vulnerabilities</span>, which are largely the result of orbital mechanics. <span style="text-decoration: none;">This invites destruction, damage, and even just mischief delivered by even the least significant adversary</span>. However, <span style="text-decoration: none;">other nations may seek to deny U.S. advantages in space through a variety of negation and prevention actions. Negation Threats Satellite systems consist not only of spacecraft, each with their own payload and bus, but also a supporting infrastructure—ground control stations, tracking and control links, commonly referred to as the tracking, telemetry, and control (TT&C) links, data links, launch facilities, and an industrial base</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Each of these components is at risk to threats of physical and cyber attack, and sabotage, and can be negated, simultaneously or each in detail. The satellite payload, bus, links, and infrastructure can be negated by using a variety of permanent or reversible means to achieve one of the five possible effects, known as the ‘‘five Ds’’—deception, disruption, denial, degradation, and destruction.5 Space-based threats proliferate as a result of the ever-growing global availability of technology and access to the space domain. There are huge incentives for states to invest in and use space , and the spread of space technologies has occurred</span>. States with sufficient resources can now reach out to space and ‘‘touch’’ satellites through a variety of means, and achieve one and even more of the five Ds. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Spacecraft are vulnerable to direct ascent weapons as demonstrated by the Chinese ASAT test, and to a variety of other groundbased, airborne, and space-based ASAT technologies</span>. Direct-ascent launched, or orbit-based nuclear devices, can be detonated, generating radiation and other lethal effects to destroy unshielded electronics over a wide lethal range. Co-orbital ASATs could be employed, comparable to the old Soviet system that was tested extensively in the 1970s and early 80s. In a less likely scenario, space-borne mines can also be deployed in close proximity to spacecraft, or exploded to generate debris clouds that destructively engage whole classes of satellites in the same orbital plane or in crossing orbits. Ground, space-based, or airborne lasers could be used by adversaries to wreak havoc. Blinding operations could be executed and inflict effects ranging from temporary ‘‘dazzling’’ to permanent burnout of optical or other sensors with intense energy bursts. Ground systems, supporting communications, and their nodes, are vulnerable to diverse land, sea, or air kinetic attacks, including sabotage. Unprotected systems are also susceptible to electronic attack through jamming and electromagnetic deception techniques. Jammers emit signals that mask or prevent reception of desired signals; these methods can disrupt uplinks, downlinks, and even cross-links. <span style="text-decoration: none;">By disabling the means of command and control, and data communications, jammers render satellites inoperable or unavailable. </span>Electromagnetic deception techniques can be employed to confuse systems; this could include sending false, but deceptively plausible, commands that cause spacecraft to perform damaging or wasteful maneuvers, modify databases or execute configuration changes, or otherwise destroy it. Similarly, supporting terrestrial ground stations, computer networks, and links are vulnerable to information operation and cyber attacks. These attacks could involve directing global denial of service tasks, injecting fake commands, malicious software and viruses into the space system, performing unauthorized monitoring and disclosure of sensitive information (data interception), and causing unauthorized modification or deliberate corruption of network information, services, and databases. In sum, there is a wide span of kinetic and other types of attacks an adversary could consider and employ. There is potential that even non-state actors can access some of these technologies and space systems, and achieve several of the five Ds; however, it is unlikely they can obtain and then employ a full-spectrum of these means and achieve all of these effects. Conducting an attack within the space domain involves a rather substantial investment to develop, acquire, operate, and sustain needed shooter, sensor, and command and control systems. Given the scope and commitment needed to affect such a move, an on-orbit attack would probably be made only in the context of a larger strategic struggle, perhaps as a prelude to or part of early combat operations. On the other hand, <span style="text-decoration: none;">inexpensive jamming technology is available to even the poorest potential adversaries. As such, jamming poses the most used and growing threat to space systems.</span> Some argue that jamming also carries with it implicit political and legal sanctions since no major space power has moved to ban or make even temporary and reversible jamming illegal. This may change now that a number of nations have banned together to object to recent Iranian satellite jamming.6 Cyber adversaries and criminals are also beginning to hone their craft. They present an evolving threat to space systems; and like jamming, cyber threats can be developed and deployed for only modest investments. Prevention Threats Prevention actions generally involve economic, political, informational, and diplomatic instruments of national power. For example, an extremely large creditor nation could employ its considerable economic clout and leverage in an attempt to compel or blackmail the United States to not license or permit imaging of its territory, preventing its use, and reducing its exposure to such observation. The creditor nation could seek to accomplish its objective by destabilizing the world market place. It could refuse to purchase treasury offerings that underpin the burgeoning U.S. fiscal and trade deficits, perhaps arguing that remote sensing, especially commercial remote sensing, of its territory infringes on its territorial and sovereign rights, or that it constitutes ‘‘unlawful’’ industrial espionage, and is thus, an unfair trade practice.7 Commercial remote sensing systems are nowan important resource for the United States Government and its national security needs. U.S. Government orders help sustain and stabilize the remote sensing industry,8 and any limitations on activities, whether for U.S. Government customers or commercial ones, imposed in response to external economic threats could evolve to cause problems. In an alternative scenario, a state, acting through political allies and proxies, could exert considerable influence and dominance to affect a change in U.S. law. This change could restrict licensing of commercial remote sensing imagery, restricting the market place and impacting business models for producers.9 As a diplomatic prevention example, adversaries could attempt to use international forums and treaties to deny frequency rights needed by U.S. military or intelligence satellites by making spurious ‘‘paper satellite’’ filings with the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). ‘‘Paper satellites’’ involve ITU applications for satellite orbital slots, many for ‘‘speculative’’ systems that will never leave Earth. These filings can block access to scarce spectrum and orbital resources.10 The ability to place communications and other satellites in geosynchronous orbit (GEO) positions could be held at risk. Some characterize some of these types of actions as a form of ‘‘lawfare.’’ ‘‘The term lawfare describes the growing use of international law claims, usually factually or legally meritless, as a tool of war. The goal is to gain a moral advantage over your enemy in the court of world opinion, and potentially a legal advantage in national and international tribunals.’’11 Prevention actions taken to hobble U.S. space systems are not armed attacks. As is discussed later, the use of force is only authorized under the United Nations (UN) Charter in response to an armed attack, or upon authorization of the UN Security Council. As such, using armed force to deter and defeat prevention actions involving political or diplomatic subterfuge or intrigue may be unlawful under international law. Creative alternative solutions must therefore be found to assure access to space when facing these types of threats. Implications for U.S. Space Strategy <span style="text-decoration: none;">The wide span of threats poses profound implications for U.S. space strategy and its execution</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">First</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">unlike the Cold War era, the United States now confronts a wide array of global actors, all operating with different motivations and incentives</span>, some of which could become potential adversaries who can attack or threaten space capabilities. <span style="text-decoration: none;">These state and non-state adversaries exhibit a wide array of political, economic, technical, and social differences</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Having many potential adversaries makes each of them harder to understand. This complicates efforts to understand motivations and to influence perceptions for deterrence purposes. These differences, in turn, increase the likelihood of misperception, undercutting strategies to protect access to space capabilities</span>. When one’s attention is divided, deterrent measures that are appropriate for one target may not be useful, or even counterproductive, for another. This requires tailored intelligence efforts, information operations, and transparency efforts in order to avoid or minimize disputes and prevent problems. Second, the broad array of adversaries exhibit widely varying risk-taking behaviors. Risk-taking behavior can strongly influence an adversary’s perception of a situation. Understanding this phenomenon can lead to better ways of influencing those perceptions. Unfortunately, <span style="text-decoration: none;">potential adversaries may not care that space systems offer tremendous value and capabilities to all nations, or care whether conflict in space could create space debris that could cost all nations access to the domain</span>. A strategy to assure continuing access to space assets must therefore be sufficiently flexible to address both risk-averse and risk-taking adversaries. Indeed, potential adversaries may shift from risk-taking to risk-adverse over a relatively short period of time. <span style="text-decoration: none;">China may fit in this category</span>. Within a decade or two, it will have its own extensive space-based communications, navigation, and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance satellite constellations, all of which will be integrated into its military operations. No doubt, China will embrace that evolution and become very reliant on space capabilities; this will shift it from an asymmetric competitor to one similar to the United States or Russia. Third, with the demise of the Soviet Union, some political commentators and critics described the United States as a ‘‘hyperpower’’ not just a ‘‘superpower.’’ 12 <span style="text-decoration: none;">Though buffeted by recent events involving Iraq, Afghanistan, the Global War on Terror, and the 2008 global financial meltdown, U.S. military supremacy continues.</span> But, <span style="text-decoration: none;">that supremacy does not make or guarantee a successful space strategy. Adversaries may believe they have a higher stake than the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">States in the outcome of a particular crisis or conflict</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Alternatively, the United States stake in the crisis may not be commensurate with the possible cost of involvement by the United States military and the rest of its national security apparatus. The first alternative may encourage mischief by adversaries; the second discourages U.S. action. As a result, adversaries may find threats of U.S. action in response to hostile acts affecting U.S. access to space systems to be non-credible</span>. Fourth, <span style="text-decoration: none;">while the United States has produced superlative space capabilities, it has not produced enough systems ready to survive the new kinetic, exotic, jamming, and cyber threat environment.</span> The vulnerability exists because the spacecraft developed and deployed today are in many ways the same as those originally fielded during the Cold War. During that epic struggle, there was a tacit and then explicit understanding that each superpower would not attack and overwhelm the other’s space systems, except in the dire st of circumstances, perhaps during the throes of a nuclear conflagration. Indeed, a number of agreements between the superpowers adopted the understanding and ruled out interference with national technical means, including space assets. <span style="text-decoration: none;">This belief in the superiority of space systems and power blinds the United States to the inherent strategic weaknesses and vulnerabilities in these systems</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">This,</span> predictably, <span style="text-decoration: none;">can now be exploited by potential adversaries, such as China, who, with their recent ASAT test, appear more willing to fully explore the technologies needed to expand the limits of conventional war to include the space domain</span>. Consequently, by historically and diplomatically reducing the threat, engineering of some satellite threat detection, attack avoidance, and other defense subsystems have not matured enough so that they are sophisticated, nimble, and robust enough to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.

**Conflict over space is inevitable - reliance on space for terrestrial warfare guarantees it - 2.5 thousand years of history prove**
<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Smith 11</span>-[Colonel and PhD in IR, 11 (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">It is a rule in strategy, one derived empirically from the evidence of two and a half millennia, that anything of great strategic importance to one belligerent, for that reason has to be worth attacking by others</span>. And the greater the importance, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the greater has to be the incentive to damage, disable, capture, or destroy it.</span> In the bluntest of statements<span style="text-decoration: none;">: space warfare is a certainty in the future because the use of space in war has become vital.</span> . . . <span style="text-decoration: none;">Regardless of public sentimental or environmentally shaped attitudes towards space as the pristine final frontier, space warfare is coming</span>.20 The strategic value of space to states is not in question.<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Advanced spacefaring states are already reliant—and moving toward dependence—on space-derived services for activities across every sector of their societies</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Spacepower is becoming critical to their styles of warfighting. Likewise, the injury that can be caused to such states by menacing their space systems can be considerable. Given these incentives, the beast of war will either break its chains all at once or stretch them slowly over time</span>.21


**Chinese doctrine, spending, and actions all portend an attack on US space assets - it will likely escalate**
<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Wortzel, 8</span> – [Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The PLA is exploring in theoretical research, basic research, and applied research a variety of forms of space weapons.77 These include:</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">. satellite jamming technology;</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">. collisions between space bodies;</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">. kinetic energy weapons;</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">. space-to-ground attack weapons;</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">. space planes</span> that can transit and fight ‘‘up or down’’ in the upper atmosphere or space;
<span style="text-decoration: none;">. high-power laser weapons;</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">. high-power microwave weapon systems</span>;
<span style="text-decoration: none;">. particle-beam weapons; and</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">. electromagnetic pulse.78</span>
PLA authors credit the U.S. with having the most advanced capabilities in the areas of kinetic energy weapons, particle beam weapons, and directed energy. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The PLA does have various forms of jamming capability, and has done a lot of work on the concept of colliding space bodies.</span> The dilemma here for the military theorists or planner in the U.S., is that this is really space science and rocket science. Although Chinese military theory, basic research, and applied research into these areas are transparent, the successes or weapons systems that may become formal programs are not transparent. Regardless of whether the algorithms are correct or not<span style="text-decoration: none;">, it is clear that the PLA is serious about space warfare. The destruction of their own weather satellite and the blinding of a U.S. satellite mean they are achieving some success. </span>PLA theorists think that internal lines of communication are most favorable for successful military operations, whether the offense, defense, or maintaining a logistics chain.79 They see internal lines as superior to the conduct of military operations on external lines.80 <span style="text-decoration: none;">The Chinese see their regional position in Asia as superior to that of the U.S. because the U.S. has to fight, communicate, and re-supply along extended exterior lines, while China enjoys interior lines of communication within the range of its aircraft, missiles, and submarine fleet. This means that in a conflict, they would probably use their jamming and antisatellite systems to disrupt American lines of communication, command and control, situational awareness, and efforts at coordination at the extended ranges of military conflict for the U.</span>S.81 One of the most disruptive things the PLA could do, therefore, would be to neutralize the U.S. ability to use tracking and data relay satellites, which provide the global, real time sensor and communications capabilities for network centric operations. The PLA believes that the U.S. is heavily dependent on its satellite systems, more dependent than the PLA. That is changing, however. <span style="text-decoration: none;">As the PLA modernizes</span> its own Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4SIR) systems, <span style="text-decoration: none;">it is becoming as dependent on space and information systems as the U.S. Therefore, its policies of space control and space deterrence for military purposes are no longer forms of asymmetric warfare. Rather, the contest will be over which force can most effectively disrupt the other’s military operations. Space warfare will likely become an integral part of traditional conflict. </span>The Implications of Attacks on Reconnaissance Satellites One problem that begs an answer is whether the PLA is considering the implications of exercising the capabilities it is developing. That is, when researchers consider a form of space warfare, or develop capabilities to be applied in space weapons, are there also PLA officers in the policy or war planning sphere thinking through the implications of employing that capability? If not, <span style="text-decoration: none;">an incident could quickly escalate and get out of control, leading to an exchange of weapons or a deeper crisis. </span>For example, <span style="text-decoration: none;">four officers from the PLA’s Second Artillery Command College,</span> in Wuhan, <span style="text-decoration: none;">have published an analysis of how to jam or destroy the space-based ballistic missile advanced warning systems of the U.S</span>.82 In their article, the officers note, ‘‘a space borne missile early warning system will play a pivotal role in future space wars.’’83 They set out the capabilities and parameters of the U.S. Defense Support Program (DSP) early warning satellites, including the geosynchronous orbits of the satellite sets, their axis of look, the infrared bands they cover, and their shortcomings. The authors discuss how to destroy the U.S. DSP satellites with other satellites, ground-based lasers, or direct ascent weapons.84 They also have a discussion of how to jam the satellites, their satellite-to-ground transmissions, or to camouflage the infrared radiation emitted by a missile to make it more difficult for the warning satellite to detect an attack.85 In their conclusion, the authors find that maintaining a strategic ballistic missile capability is a powerful deterrent to prevent the U.S. from launching a large scale military attack or intervention aimed at China’s own military operations on its southeast coast, i.e., to intervene in Chinese military operations against Taiwan.86 Their view is that ‘‘destroying and jamming space borne missile early warning systems not only can paralyze such anti-missile systems, but also will help us [the PRC] win the war in space.’’87 The PLA is also aware of the most advanced U.S. synthetic aperture radar imaging systems and are thinking through how to neutralize or jam them.88 <span style="text-decoration: none;">The problem in this reasoning is that there is no consideration given to a likely American reaction to the disruption of its missile early warning systems. One possible reaction by the U.S. is that it might well think it is coming under immediate attack and launch its own strike against China’s strategic missile forces</span>. Another reasonable reaction by U.S. forces might be to strike the source of the Chinese attack, particularly if it came from a ground based laser or direct ascent launch. Even if such a reaction by the U.S. used conventional weapons, the PLA may find it has created a deeper crisis that led to an American strike on Chinese soil. These four PLA authors do not seem to have considered the ramifications of their own research. Space Deterrence Space power theorists, like Cai, advocate the ability to control parts of space for limited periods. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Huang Zhicheng, in reaction to U.S. Air Force Space Command manual</span> AFM 2–2.1, Space Warfare and Countermeasures, develops the concept further, advocating a regime of ‘‘space deterrence’’ to counter American space superiority. 89 For Huang, this shift toward space deterrence mirrors a trend in U.S. space theory.90 Huang defines this as ‘‘the use of strong aerospace power to create or demonstrate a threat to an opponent’s space power to deter that opponent in a practical way.’’91 The goal of this concept of deterrence is to increase the PLA’s power in weapons systems, information gathering, and command and control to improve national warning systems in China, create fear in an adversary, and degrade the adversary’s power.92 The key to achieving this level of deterrence, according to Huang, is to concentrate one’s own economic, military, and science and technology power to ‘‘ruin an opponent’s economy and ability to function in space.’’93 The intention behind the December 2006 blinding of a U.S. satellite by a Chinese laser and the 11 January 2007 destruction of a Chinese weather satellite by the PLA’s own direct ascent kill vehicle is clear when interpreted through this concept of demonstrating space deterrence.94 As Huang concedes, for a deterrent to be credible, one must demonstrate the capability. A deterrent must be demonstrated. It is also important to note that effective space deterrence, as conceived by this writer, includes crippling attacks on information networks and C4SIR systems. In the future, there could be other examples of space deterrence to let the U.S. and other countries know that they do not have free reign in space or over China. The PLA could demonstrate various forms of jamming. In doing so, the PLA would conduct operational tests of the work being done on jamming synthetic aperture radar satellites. Chinese journals do discuss maneuvering space bodies to intersect in orbit. This type of maneuvering lends itself to accidental collisions between space bodies. China could deny the hostile intent of such accidents, but they still would demonstrate a space deterrent capability. Conclusions There are a number of important findings to this research effort. First, <span style="text-decoration: none;">in the event of conflict with the PLA, military operations carried out across all the domains of war, ground, sea, air, space, and the electromagnetic spectrum, or information- and cyber-warfare, are likely</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Any military operations in space will be part of a more coordinated cyber or information attack on an enemy’s knowledge and command systems</span>. Second, there will probably be strategic warning, even if there is operational or tactical surprise, in any future conflict between China and the U.S. Prior to direct conflict, the PLA and the Central Military Commission will likely justify any of its actions by conducting what it calls legal warfare.95 Third, the concept of legal warfare will be applied by the PRC Foreign Ministry, the security services, Chinese Communist Party liaison Department, and the PLA to exploit political divisions in the U.S. over nuclear testing and space-based weapon systems. Fourth, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the PLA will seek to exercise space control in a limited area of conflic</span>t. The PLA will probably observe the internationally accepted definitions of commons in space, over 100,000 m, in peacetime. If direct conflict breaks out, altitude limits on space control are off, and any systems carrying adversary military traffic or signals are probably fair game for the PLA. U.S. Navy Secretary Donald Winter, on a visit to Australia in August 2007, said that the U.S. still wants to understand what the Chinese intention is in its military modernization.96 This concern over how China will engage in military operations in space is really about intentions<span style="text-decoration: none;">. There are a number of China’s activities and policy positions coming from Beijing that make it hard to interpret Chinese intent. Among these are: China’s expansive territorial claims, combined with periodic incidents of the use of armed force to reinforce these claims;97 the justification for extending the territorial claims of China into the reaches of outer space</span> outlined in this paper; and the shaping of the ‘‘space battlefield’’ with legal arguments that would justify China’s actions to prevent space observation over its territory. The U.S. has taken a course with China that is far different from the isolationist and confrontational approach with the former Soviet Union during the Cold War. Both states are heavily involved in trade, economic, and political engagements with each other. Nonetheless, both states are wary of the potential for conflict with the other, and there exist some deep fundamental differences of national interest. Whether one is a proponent of arms control agreements or not, the dialogue between the U.S. and the Soviet Union over arms control and treaties produced a body of mutual understanding that holds up today. The U.S. and the Soviet Union seemed to realize that it is potentially destabilizing to define the upper limits of sovereignty. Thus, neither country interfered with the other’s free passage in space. Also, they agreed that the ability to conduct strategic verification from space stabilized the nuclear balance<span style="text-decoration: none;">. No</span> such <span style="text-decoration: none;">dialogue has taken place with China. The PLA has either ignored or rebuffed American efforts at such a dialogue. Often, senior military or Chinese Communist Party leaders have told Americans that to engage in such a dialogue is an example of a cold war mentality</span>.98 Yet discussions on these issues are important to clarify the rationales for America’s positions on space and serve as threat reduction measures. Although China’s intentions are not fully known, they can be inferred from Chinese actions, like <span style="text-decoration: none;">the attack on a U.S. satellite with a laser and the destruction of its own weather satellite as a demonstration of capability</span>. PRC intentions can also be inferred from judicious reviews of its military literature. By observing the military capabilities China is acquiring and reading its military literature<span style="text-decoration: none;">, it is clear that China’s leaders are preparing as though they may have to fight the U.S</span>. To this end, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the PLA is busily preparing the space battlefield in advance with legal arguments, as called for in its doctrine. As a result, there are very sound reasons to prepare to defend American interests in space, to engage in mutual threat reduction measures, and to pursue programs that will ensure that the U.S. military will have access to space in any future conflict.</span>

**The risk of crisis instability and miscalc is high – the PLA is isolated from the Chinese government**

<span style="text-decoration: none;">MacDonald 11</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">–[ Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis]</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">One characteristic of too many wars in the last century is that they are the result of miscalculation that ignites the tinder of fundamental geopolitical tensions. Averting major power conflict requires skillful management of tensions by senior leaders of the major powers</span>. China has become much more internationally sophisticated, though with important exceptions, in its dealings with the rest of the world than has been true in the past, and this is reflected in its civilian leadership. Unfortunately, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the PLA's senior officer corps trails its civilian counterparts in this respect. They have much less interaction with foreign official and travel abroad much less frequently than their U.S. counterparts. This means that the PLA overall views world events from a less knowledgeable and sophisticated perspective, a danger in this increasingly complex world, and could explain</span>, for example, the political "tonedeafness" of the PLA in the manner they conducted <span style="text-decoration: none;">their 2007 ASAT test. This PLA problem becomes more serious when one realizes that the PLA is organizationally separate from the rest of the Chinese government, and reports only to the Central Military Commission,</span> currently chaired by President Hu Jintao. President Hu, and his likely successors, have no significant military background, and <span style="text-decoration: none;">the majority of the CMC's members are top PLA officers, suggesting that civilian oversight of major military decisions and consideration of their larger implications are not as carefully reviewed as in the U.S. government. Normally this would not be too great a concern,</span> but <span style="text-decoration: none;">in a crisis this could be dangerous. Add to this the fact that China has no equivalent of our National Security Council, a critically important body for coordinating our security decisionmaking, and one comes away concerned about the relative insularity of the PLA in the Chinese power structure</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">In a crisis, the PLA probably cannot be counted on to show as sophisticated a sense of judgment as one would hope any country's military leaders, even an enemy's, to show. All these problems and many more pose potential threats to internal political stability and Communist Party control, providing ample opportunity for crisis and conflict in the years ahead</span>. Overview of The Strategic Landscape of Space <span style="text-decoration: none;">Space assets</span>, and the communications and cyber links that enable them to function, <span style="text-decoration: none;">are the means by which essential national security information is either generated, transmitted, or both. This information is the lifeblood of U.S. conventional military superiority and plays a key role in U.S. strategic nuclear posture as well</span>. As such, <span style="text-decoration: none;">these space related assets represent extraordinarily appealing targets in any future conflict, and their relative vulnerability can provide dangerously attractive incentives in a crisis to preempt, escalating to war</span>. Resisting this temptation to attack may be morally virtuous but could be strategically unwise: <span style="text-decoration: none;">going first in a space conflict with a nearpeer space adversary appears to offer many advantages, while absorbing such a strike, with all its attendant destruction of military capabilities, and then responding to the attack against an opponent fully expecting such a response, appears to be militarily and strategically quite undesirable. As technology advances, the ways of interfering with, disrupting, or destroying information streams in space or supporting space systems will likely increase, as will U.S. and others' dependence upon such systems.</span> Providing defensive options for U.S. space assets should be pursued where appropriate, but most space observers believe that offense has the advantage in space over defense, as General Cartwright observed last May. Cartwright also noted that the challenging issues that space poses has made the Space Posture Review "the most difficult of all the defense reviews" the Obama Administration has undertaken. The overall U.S. goal in space should be to shape the space domain to the advantage of the United States and its allies, and to do so in ways that are stabilizing and enhance U.S. and allied security. The United States has an overriding interest in maintaining the safety, survival, and function of its space assets so that <span style="text-decoration: none;">the profound military, civilian, and commercial benefits they enable can continue to be available to the United States and its allies</span>. This need not mean that China and others must perforce be disadvantaged by such an arrangement - there should be ample opportunity for many countries to benefit and prosper from a properly crafted system of space management. There is an inherent risk of strategic instability when relatively modest defense efforts create disproportionate danger to an adversary, as with space offense. And <span style="text-decoration: none;">there is a serious risk of crisis instability in space when "going first" pays off - destroying an adversary's satellites before he destroys yours. We don't know what would happen in a crisis, but the potential for space instability seems high and likely to grow.</span>

**That crushes deterrence and risks miscalc and nuclear escalation**
<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Burke 6</span> – [Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]

<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The erosion of the US ability to execute the space threat warning mission has serious implications for US national security to include: the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland; the loss of space capabilities which would degrade US warfighting effectiveness; the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, facilities or services; </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the increased possibility that adversaries could develop new weapons or covertly conduct probing attacks on US space systems; and the lack of a credible means to execute stated US policy in response to an attack against space assets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">**.** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">One of the most serious impacts of the failure to develop or execute a reliable space threat warning and attack verification system is the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on the US homeland or an attack </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">that is part of a major regional action by a near-peer adversary such as an attack on Taiwan by the Chinese mainland</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, whose goal was the destruction of the Pacific Fleet, was not done as an isolated act, but as part of the start of a larger campaign to establish a Japanese Pacific sphere of influence which included the forceful acquisition of US territories. At this time, the Pacific Fleet was viewed as a US center of gravity whose destruction would enable Japan to achieve regional domination and discourage future US intervention. Today, our space-based assets may represent the equivalent of the WWII Pacific Fleet. Further, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">other nations have stated they view the US reliance on space as a potential Achilles ’ heel and a center of gravity whose destruction or disruption is critical to future military success against the US</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.44Although a major attack on the US is not likely, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the loss of US space-based early warning capability and ground-based missile warning radars could undermine nuclear deterrence strategy resulting in a devastating miscalculationthat the US was vulnerable to a nuclear first strike</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The perception that US space capabilities are vulnerable to a surprise attack also weakens conventional deterrence</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">. In the case of a US-China conflict over Taiwan, the Chinese might seek to disrupt or destroy regional space capabilities as part of a delaying strategy to deny US forces access to the region until their military operations were well underway, making the Chinese takeover of Taiwan a fait accompli</span>.45 A successful Pearl Harbor-type attack on US space assets would degrade US fighting effectiveness. Today, space represents the ultimate high ground and it is unlikely that a nation, whose military ambitions might provoke US involvement, will willingly cede that high ground. The level of battlespace awareness space-based platforms provide makes any attack using large massed forces difficult to accomplish. The ability to neutralize these platforms would improve the circumstances required to gain a strategic advantage over US and allied forces. As General Lord stated in his Congressional testimony: “A resourceful enemy will look at our centers of gravity and try to attack them. Our adversaries understand our global dependence on space capabilities, and we must be ready to handle any threat to our space infrastructure.”46 With the increased US reliance on space assets for communication, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR); and command and control of our deployed forces; a successful space attack could significantly delay US response to regional aggression. During Operation IRAQI FREEDOM (OIF), over 60% of theater communications traveled via satellites.47 The Defense Satellite Communication System (DSCS) provided 90% of all protected communications and 70% of all military satellite communications into theater.48 These capabilities significantly enhanced command and control of US and allied forces. Further, the employment of the satellite-based Blue Force Tracker system resulted in an unprecedented level of situational awareness which decreased fratricide and facilitating search and rescue operations and reinforcement operations.49 The United States also maximized the use of the space-based Global Positioning System (GPS) to enable precision weapons delivery, allowing the use of fewer and smaller weapons to achieve effects; to enhance navigation in featureless terrain; and to aid in the location of both friendly and hostile forces.50 General Lord testified to Congress: “<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space capabilities</span> are no longer nice to have, but <span style="text-decoration: none;">are now indispensable to how we fight and win our nation’s wars</span>.”51 <span style="text-decoration: none;">The failure to develop a credible space threat warning system increases the likelihood that a foreign nation would attack US space assets. </span>The inability to detect and provide timely warning of a space attack could result in the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services. There are a number of scenarios where the timely detection of a threat would allow space operators to intervene, thwarting the attack. In many instances, the ability to find, fix, target and destroy the threat is currently a viable way to counter the attack. However, this is not always possible. In the case of a co-orbital ASAT attack, which involves the launch and maneuver of a satellite into a closing orbit of another satellite to destroy or disrupt it, the countermeasure require a pre-intercept maneuver of the target satellite. The support countermeasures for an attack on space ground facilities include increased physical and information security. Countermeasures for electronic warfare attacks or jamming of the space link segment exist but there is often a significant bandwidth cost when these measures are in effect.52 Degradations to space assets could also occur as a result of unintentional sources such as radio frequency interference or from scientific research such as laser research. In these situations, it is important to locate the source and terminate the activity to prevent loss of the space asset or service. The loss of these capabilities during critical operations could result in operational failure, loss of equipment, resources, and lives. The inability to rapidly neutralize sources of satellite communication (SATCOM) interference also has national security implications. In the area of airpower employment, <span style="text-decoration: none;">successful SATCOM jamming could disrupt the US ability to command and control air assets</span> in theater from geographically separated air operations centers. <span style="text-decoration: none;">A delay of even one to two days might jeopardize US ability to support deployed forces</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Satellite communication links to worldwide deployed forces are critical capabilities in protecting US security, sovereignty, and military combat capability. The inability to detect and assess space threats might allow adversaries to develop new weapon systems or conduct probing attacks on US space systems</span> without our knowledge. Although US surveillance technology and systems are more sophisticated today, the US should not assume it will always be able to detect the development of a new weapon. Our experience in post-WW II with the Germans is one example. After the defeat of Nazi Germany, the US and Russia engaged in a race to uncover Germany’s scientific secrets. Major General Hugh-Knerr, deputy commander of the US Air Forces in Europe wrote: “The occupation of German scientific and industrial establishments has revealed the fact that we have been alarmingly backward in many fields of research.”53 Supersonic rockets, nerve gas, jet aircraft, guided missiles, stealth technology and hardened armor were just some of the technologies developed in WWII German laboratories.54 The Soviet Sputnik launches and the deployment of the FOB system are modern examples of technological surprise.55Today, <span style="text-decoration: none;">other nations are working to develop new weapons to counter US dominance and to take the lead in</span> what is termed Fourth Generation Warfare—<span style="text-decoration: none;">information war</span>. The current <span style="text-decoration: none;">coverage gaps in our space surveillance network</span>, a fragmented intelligence network, a lack of discipline in anomaly reporting, the current inability to rapidly detect an attack on on-orbit systems, and overall erosion over the last decade of the space defense mindset <span style="text-decoration: none;">makes it more likely an adversary could develop anti-satellite weapons </span>without our knowledge. Finally, <span style="text-decoration: none;">without a credible space threat warning capability the US will not have the ability to execute stated US policy</span> to counter an attack against US space assets. In 1999, President Clinton signed into law DoD Directive 3100.10, US Space Policy, which specifically declared an attack on US space systems, to include commercial space systems, an attack on US sovereignty.56 One purposes of this policy is <span style="text-decoration: none;">to deter an attack on US space assets</span>. However, the lack of a credible space threat warning system undermines this policy. <span style="text-decoration: none;">A senior officer in US Strat</span>egic <span style="text-decoration: none;">Com</span>mand recently <span style="text-decoration: none;">stated that a nation or group could likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution</span>.57

**Even rogue states could take out US assets**
<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Smith, 11</span> – [USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force Space and Cyber Center at Air University. He served in the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office as the Chief of the Future Concepts shop (M.V., Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]

Spacefaring prowess is a common attribute of the dominant powers in the world today<span style="text-decoration: none;">. Special attention must be paid to so-called rogue states that have access to space-related technology and may even be spacefaring but do not have the conventional forces to achieve their policy aims.</span> Those aims tend to be very intense, and <span style="text-decoration: none;">these players may seek space weapons as an asymmetric hedge against spacefaring adversaries</span> who may try to coerce them. The dominant military powers in the world, some of whom are potential adversaries, also tend to be the dominant spacefaring states. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Because of the economic benefits and exponential enhancements that spacepower delivers to terrestrial warfighting, those states are under increasing pressure to defend their space systems and to counter those of their potential adversaries. This may lead to a space weapons race and an immediate escalation of hostilities to "wipe the skies" of enemy satellites should war break out between two or more dominant military space powers</span>.29 When assessing the interplay between the spectrum of conflict and the spectrum of belligerents, it may be the case that war between two weak actors will not likely extend into space. However, if the power is perceived to be disparate, <span style="text-decoration: none;">a weak actor is far more likely to use space weapons against a powerful state as an asymmetric defensive move</span>.30 <span style="text-decoration: none;">A powerful state may counter</span> the space systems in use by a weaker adversary, but it is likely to do so by placing diplomatic pressure on commercial vendors, or executing attacks on their ground stations, or launching highly selective covert attacks on the satellites they use by employing temporary and reversible means. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Should two dominant spacefaring powers go directly to war with each other with intense motives, both will find it critical to preserve their space systems and will consider it a dangerous liability to allow their enemy to exploit theirs. Given the ability of spacepower to cut the fog and friction of war while connecting military forces at the tactical, operational, and strategic level, it is likely that space systems will be primary targets that will be negated in the opening moves of war.</span> The fight for space is likely to be intense and brief. Temporary means of negation will likely switch to permanent methods of destruction to remove doubt in the minds of commanders.

**Additionally space debris will inevitably take out our satellites**
<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Donahue, 10</span> – USAF Major (Jack, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]])

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The warning signs and leading indicators for a catastrophic collision between orbital debris and satellites</span> or manned spaceflight <span style="text-decoration: none;">missions are all around us. If significant strides are not made within the next 5 years to clear and remove orbital debris it could result in the loss of satellites and the death of space crew.</span> Furthermore, <span style="text-decoration: none;">if something isn‘t done to better protect space assets now it could lead to adversaries exploiting vulnerabilities through various kinetic, nuclear, and cyber attacks causing satellites to become inoperative.</span> This would lead to the generation of new debris which will further compound the orbital debris problem. The effects of this would be felt worldwide with the disruption of communications, internet access, navigation, military surveillance, environmental research, and the banking industry. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The best way to avoid these consequences is to continue to harden satellites, improve space monitoring, and develop backups/alternatives to satellite capabilities.</span> As mentioned, the US must also continue to partner with other countries to implement solutions of clearing and reducing the proliferation of orbital debris. The world can change the potential alarming future of a catastrophic collision from orbital debris, but the time to act is now.

**Loss of space assets will annihilate US hegemony**
<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Marshall 8</span> –[ NASA Ames Research Center (Will, Astropolitics, 6:154–199, “REDUCING THE VULNERABILITY OF SPACE ASSETS: A
MULTITIERED MICROSATELLITE CONSTELLATION ARCHITECTURE,” Ebsco Political Science]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space assets are one of the most critical ‘‘Achilles’ heels’’ of the current military capability of the United States (U.S</span>.). This is for two reasons: (<span style="text-decoration: none;">1) the U.S. military space systems—in particular reconnaissance, navigation, signals intelligence, early warning, and communications systems—are critical to modern military warfare and intelligence; and (2) space systems are inherently vulnerable to attack. This combination is understood at the highest levels and was espoused in the ‘‘Rumsfeld Space Commission’’ with talk of a ‘‘Space Pearl Harbor.’</span>’1 Whether one agrees with the tone<span style="text-decoration: none;">, this is a genuine security problem for the U.S. in need of a near-term solution</span>. While there have been numerous papers, and much media and academic attention, in the space security discussion focused on promoting or criticizing space-based weapons,2 there have been far fewer papers and studies offering constructive ways forward that deal with these genuine security concerns in a broader sense.3 The central motivation for this paper is to put forward one key element—the satellite architecture—in an effort to reduce the vulnerability of U.S. space assets. It is hoped that this idea, together with others like it, should stimulate and contribute to a debate on more constructive ways forward for how to achieve space security in the post-Cold war world. Importance of Space Assets For better or worse, <span style="text-decoration: none;">it is clear that the U.S. military is to some significant extent dependent on its key satellites, </span>which number about 86–105 operational satellites at present. <span style="text-decoration: none;">These satellites constitute a significant part of the eyes, ears, and central nervous system of the modern military.4 A practical example that helps to illustrate this is the case of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. First, the decision to go was based in part on satellite imagery and signals intelligence from satellites; whether or not it was interpreted or used correctly is a separate issue. Second, the planning and operation were facilitated by satellite imagery. Third, many planes, ships, tanks, and units’ positions were known through Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites, and even most munitions were guided by GPS. Fourth, the operation was commanded from the U.S. in large part through the use of communications satellites</span>. Perhaps more importantly than any of the functions in the Iraq example, <span style="text-decoration: none;">early warning (EW) satellites are the U.S.’s and Russia’s first warning of nuclear missile attack.</span> As Gray classified, <span style="text-decoration: none;">space assets have moved from being ‘‘useful and important’’ to an ‘‘indispensable adjunct’’ in the military over the last decade</span>.5 Space assets are definitely used a great deal by the U.S. military, but that does not mean necessarily as strong a dependence as Gray implies. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The loss of U.S. space assets could</span> range in its effect anywhere from a loss to the U.S. military in practical operations, to <span style="text-decoration: none;">being catastrophic to U.S. security. The former would entail a reduction in operational effectiveness or speed, but fundamentally supposes that back-up systems and/or redundancy allow a near continuation of military capability. The latter scenario would entail an effective disablement of the U.S. military capability from normal operations. </span>In reality, the significance lies between these boundaries, but this is a topic that could benefit from further research.

**Heg solves conflict, trade, and cooperation**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zhang* and Shi **11-[**</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and </span>**Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Paul Kennedy was probably right: the US will go the way of all great powers — down. The individual dramas of the past decade — the September 2001 terrorist attacks, prolonged wars in the Middle East and the financial crisis — have delivered the world a message: US primacy is in decline. This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. Although the US still possesses incomparable military prowess and its economy remains the world’s largest, the once seemingly indomitable chasm that separated America from anyone else is narrowing. Thus, the global distribution of power is shifting, and the inevitable result will be a world that is less peaceful, liberal and prosperous, burdened by a dearth of effective conflict regulation. Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, many actors have bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a status quo that has tended to mute great power conflicts. However, as the hegemony that drew these powers together withers, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid. As history attests, power decline and redistribution result in military confrontation. For example, in the late 19th century America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves.’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law. Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and some degree of equal opportunities for broad segments of society. As a result of such political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared. And, with this, many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that America’s authority, although sullied at times, has benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of the 1930s: regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry. Furthermore, multilateral institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO might give way to regional organisations. For example, Europe and East Asia would each step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders. Free markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and major powers would compete for supremacy. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973). A world without American hegemony is one where great power wars re-emerge, the liberal international system is supplanted by an authoritarian one, and trade protectionism devolves into restrictive, anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy. </span>

**Commitment to ORS is vital to deterrence by denial – it will prevent attacks against US space assets**
<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Sejba 10</span> – [USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “ Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, High Frontier, May, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]

The space domain, often referred to as “The High Frontier,” no longer is a sanctuary outside the reach of foreign intervention. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The threat to space systems and their capabilities is broad, ranging from reversible effects such as jamming or blinding, to more destructive means such as anti-satellite weapons. It is now time to take actions for the sake of space, and assure its continued contributions across the full spectrum of military operations. Given the criticality of space to not only our military power, but also our economic power, it is time we develop policies and field capabilities to deter future adversaries from attempting to degrade, deny, or destroy space capabilities and services.</span> The asymmetric advantages enabled by space can no longer be assumed and as a result, <span style="text-decoration: none;">a new National Security Strategy for space must be forged, one that combines deterrence with basic protection capabilities never before afforded our space systems. Yet, space deterrence is not an “all in” strategy, nor can it reduce the risk of attack to zero.1 Should aspects of deterrence fail, we must take steps to defend and protect our space systems and the critical global services they provide</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Operationally responsive space (ORS) by definition is “assured space power focused on timely satisfaction of joint force commanders’ needs.</span>”2 Dissected further, one key word stands out: assured … being sufficiently robust, timely, agile, adaptive, and resilient, to achieve desired outcomes with a high degree of certainty.3 So while <span style="text-decoration: none;">ORS</span> intends to provide operational and tactical support to the joint warfighter<span style="text-decoration: none;">, its true value will be the assurance it provides as a credible strategic deterrent against space attacks</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">As a deterrent, ORS provides access to existing capabilities, or rapid deployment and employment of new capabilities, denying the benefits our adversaries may seek by attacking our space capabilities. Through timely and accurate intelligence, we can work to understand our adversaries’ intent and armed with this knowledge, we gain the opportunity to influence their decision-making calculus. Understanding intent, coupled with credible and timely ORS capabilities, can effectively deny or greatly reduce the benefits they seek by attacking the asymmetric advantages enabled by space. ORS provides a responsiveness that will allow the commander</span>,<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> US Strategic Command (CDR USSTRATCOM), to respond and support our combatant commands real-time and near-term requirements. To support these requirements, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">ORS consists of three tiers of capabilities: Tier 1, the employment of existing capabilities within minutes to hours; Tier 2, the rapid call-up, launch and deployment of tailored, ready to field capabilities within days to weeks; and finally, Tier 3, the rapid development of a new capability to meet a combatant commander’s joint urgent operational need within months to a year.</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> The Unified Command Plan assigns CDR USSTRATCOM the responsibility for all military space. The space systems under his authority and control provide our warfighters increased speed, precision, and lethality in military operations. In 2007, during an Air Force Association speech in Los Angeles, California, General C. Robert Kehler, commander, Air Force Space Command and former deputy commander, USSTRATCOM, stated that the biggest difference between 25 years ago and today, was that “space today is embedded in combat operations.”4 ORS’ strategic deterrent value has the potential to be just as important to future combat operations. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Nuclear and Traditional Deterrence Theory – Misapplication When Applied to Space For years, deterrence theory centered solely on nuclear deterrence strategies, which relied heavily on threats of punishment and unacceptable losses or mutually assured destruction. These strategies effectively deterred the use of nuclear weapons throughout the Cold War to present day. However, strategies of threatening devastating nuclear retaliation do not apply to space</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">In fact, a deterrence strategy that includes the threat of punishment (i.e., impose cost) should be just one, if not a limited aspect of deterrence for space.</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> For almost half a century, nuclear deterrence strategies formed the foundation for the Cold War waged between the US and the former Soviet Union. Both superpowers relied on the threat of nuclear weapons to deter even conventional military actions, for fear of rapid escalation. In its most unlimited form, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">mutual assured destruction was a key deterrence strategy;</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> a doctrine of military strategy in which a full-scale use of nuclear weapons by two opposing sides would effectively result in the destruction of both the attacker and the defender.5 </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">While nuclear weapons continue to be a strategic deterrent, the same destructive thought process and strategy is not directly applicable to space.6 Today, some theorists focus and apply more punishing or destructive deterrence practices and thinking to the space domain</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">. They view credible deterrence in space as relying upon the threat of punishment against an aggressor; going so far as to suggest that an attack against us could be countered with an attack in kind. One specific definition limits deterrence to an “attempt to persuade an adversary by threat of force (and other measures) not to pursue an undesirable course of action.”7 Another theorist states, “Deterrence can only succeed if the enemy finds the threat of punishment to be believable.”8 </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">These approaches are less likely to deter for space, especially given our dependence upon the domain. For example, destroying an adversary’s satellite, especially one in an operational orbit, would create a large debris field, potentially hampering or denying our own ability to access space. Instead, deterrence for space can only succeed if our enemies believe we have credible means of denying the benefits they seek to gain. Space deterrence theory should focus on credible ways and means to deny an enemy the benefits they seek; impose costs on our adversaries</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (against their most prized assets);9 </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">and encourage their restraint.</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> A New Focus of Deterrence What does deterrence look like in the 21st century? The US has not yet figured that out, said Marine Corps General James Cartwright, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “You need something that deters a conflict, and you need more choices than just nuclear. ~ Sandra I. Erwin, Future of War—How the Game is Changing … Our deterrence strategy no longer rests primarily on the grim premise of inflicting devastating consequences on potential foes.… ~ US National Security Strategy, 2006 In fact, the US does have new and plausible thoughts on 21st century deterrence. Authored under the leadership of General Cartwright, then commander of USSTRATCOM, and signed out in December 2006, the Deterrence Operations Joint Operating Concept (DO-JOC) is the Department of Defense’s (DoD) latest view on deterrence. This approach extends beyond traditional nuclear deterrence theory, which dates back to the heralded days of Strategic Air Command. The DO-JOC states that the purpose or objective of deterrence operations is to “convince adversaries not to take actions that threaten US vital interests by means of decisive influence over their decision-making.”10 </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">In order to influence our adversaries’ decision-making calculus, it focuses on and integrates three key elements: Deny the benefits the adversary seeks; impose costs the adversary fears; and encourage adversary restraint</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (by convincing them that restraint will result in an acceptable outcome).11 Of these three elements, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">denying the benefit should be our focus when fielding new ORS capabilities. Deterrence today can only succeed if our adversaries find ORS credible enough to enable military operations even in a contested environment. Deny the Benefits—ORS Tier 1 and Tier 2 Examples People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) view of space:</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> Space shifting from enabler to key battleground. Space characterized as important because it contributes to information dominance; space now described as important in its own right….many in the PLA see space as a likely future arena for conflict. ~ Space and PRC National Security,’ Dean Cheng, China specialist, The Heritage Foundation, 8 October 2008.12 The purpose to benefit denial is to convince an adversary that their intent will not be achieved, or have little to no value. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Today, our ability to field ORS capabilities is minimal at best, and unconvincing as a credible deterrent. Instead, our adversaries likely perceive great benefit in attempting to deny the US’ space capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">These benefits, also referred to as “vulnerabilities gaps,”13 are reasons why we must pursue ORS with an increased sense of urgency.</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> However, for benefit denial to be viewed as a credible deterrent, the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Study states “our adversaries (must) perceive that the US will retain superior warfighting capability even after an attack.”14 The space and cyberspace domains are increasingly important to how current and future wars will be fought and won. As recently as 4 November 2009, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the People’s Republic of China’s (PRC) top Air Force Commander, Xu Qiliang, called the militarization of space an “historical inevitability.”</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">15 This statement came on the heels of an historic visit to USSTRATCOM by </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">General Xu Chihou, one of two vice chairmen of the PRC’s Central Military Commission. During this visit, General Kevin P. Chilton encouraged increased cooperation and comprehensive bilateral relationships between the two space-faring nations.16 Statements from Qiliang and actions such as the 2007 anti-satellite test highlight a growing disconnect between the PRC’s actions and stated policies, increasing concern amongst US leaders and lending credence to the need for new deterrence practices.</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> Moving forward, to be a true deterrent, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">ORS must also win the race to space in both the speed and cost of fielding capability versus our adversaries’ attempts to counter, destroy, or deny them. Two examples highlight how ORS could play a credible role in deterring adverse actions against our space capabilities: (1) International cooperation and partnerships through shared space capabilities (Tier 1) and (2) the ability to rapidly augment or replace some aspect of existing on-orbit ISR assets in low Earth orbit (Tier 2). Tier 1 and Two ORS capabilities can be deployed and employed rapidly, within hours to days. The cost for Tier 1 includes implementing new concept of operations for deployed on-orbit systems, or the rapid, low cost launch and deployment of systems intended to augment existing systems for Tier 2.</span>

**Expanding ORS will deter attacks against US space assets**
<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Putman 9</span> – USAF Major, operations officer, 328th Weapons Squadron, United States Air Force Weapons School, former chief,
DSCS III Operations duties at the 3rd Space Operations Squadron (Christopher, “Countering the Chinese Threat to Low Earth Orbit Satellites: Building a Defensive Space Strategy”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf) HANE = High Altitude Nuclear Event

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">has taken some initial steps to improve its defensive capabilities</span>. The DoD stood up the joint Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) Office on May 21,2007 at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The ORS effort seeks to meet emerging warfighter needs with new space capabilities</span>. Ron Sega, DoD executive agent for space, stated that <span style="text-decoration: none;">efforts will focus on the "ability to launch, activate and employ low-cost military-useful satellites, provide, search capability, reconstitute and augment existing capability, while providing timely availabilities of tailor-made, unique capabilities.</span> ,,39 Further, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the DoD's Plan for Operationally Responsive Space highlighted the need to increase "situational awareness and adaptability to the threat</span>, as well as an ability to evolve the total suite of space capabilities to address emerging threats in new ways.,,40 The Commander of United States Strategic Command (STRATCOM) detailed three efforts vital to execute the plan: rapidly develop technological and operational innovations, rapidly modify or supplement existing systems to increase capabilities, and rapidly reconstitute space systems when necessary to maintain capability.41 Initial focus on capabilities will be on ISR and communication satellites, improvement of space situational awareness, rapid launch capabilities, and command and control. 42 The ORS effort will use a three tier capability approach to meet warfighter needs. Tier-1implements activities immediately-to-days using existing or on-orbit systems. Tier-2 utilizes field-ready systems in days-to-weeks to provide rapid exploitation, augmentation or reconstitution of space capabilities. Finally, Tier-3 solutions take months-to-one year to satisfy needs while capabilities are modified or developed and then deployed.43 The ORS implementation timeline envisions eight tactical satellite demonstrators through fiscal year 2013. As of January 2009, two demonstrators have been launched with the third delayed from a scheduled spring 2009 launch due to technical issues. The program timeline also includes tests of operational employment and integration, command and control, and launch vehicles. The ORS program office recently purchased the first three launch vehicle specifically procured for ORS with launches scheduled for 2010 and 2011. Finally, the DoD expects the "Chiliworks" facility at Kirtland Air Force Base, which will focus onTier-2 satellite fielding, to be fully operational by 2015.44 While there are other ongoing efforts within the Intelligence Community and the DoD45 , <span style="text-decoration: none;">ORS provides a good starting point for implementation of recommendations within this paper. The ORS plan identifies the need for both anticipatory and reactive elements</span>. ORS planners should focus on the Chinese threat to build capabilities to fit within the Tier-1 and Tier-2 categories. The conflict with China would have to extend past a year to make use ofTier-3 capabilities. The United States must anticipate Chinese actions and have field-ready systems ready for either preemptive or immediate reactive use. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Field-ready systems would provide a credible defensive deterrent against existing and likely Chinese offensive anti-satellite actions.</span> PROPOSED DEFENSIVE ACTIONS The United States can choose from a wide variety of options to develop a defensive strategy to counter the Chinese threat to LEO satellites. The comprehensive approach should address space situational awareness (SSA), preplanned satellite actions, launch capability, small satellites, decreased dependence on space systems, nuclear explosion protection, institutional changes, transparency, and engagement. Space Situational Awareness <span style="text-decoration: none;">Improving SSA is essential to the success of this strategy. The U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">must have a comprehensive knowledge of all objects in orbit</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Although the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">maintains a significant Space Surveillance Network</span> (SSN) network, <span style="text-decoration: none;">it lacks coverage in key areas and the capability to comprehensively predict the orbits of all objects in space</span>;<span style="text-decoration: none;"> the</span> February 10, 2009 <span style="text-decoration: none;">collision between an Iridium commercial satellite and a Russian military satellite caught the SSN by surprise</span>.46 The United States could build more fixed ground sites, but this would be limited by host country permissions and fiscal constraints. As a near term improvement to coverage, the United States should leverage the US Navy's AEGIS cruiser and destroyer-based radars into its SSN. The AEGIS radar highlighted its space surveillance capability when it tracked a decaying US satellite, enabling its destruction by a US anti-satellite weapon in 2008.47 While the Navy assets need to train and execute their primary mission, they could be given alternate tasking to search and track objects in LEO. This would entail development of procedures between services. Further, integration of land and space-based missile warning sensors into the SSN would yield benefits in the event of an anti-satellite launch. Finally, the United States should continue to pursue satellite as a sensor technology, where the satellite has the ability to self-identify and report on attacks. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Improved SSA also allows the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">to characterize the resultant debris field of an anti-satellite attack and thus support reactive measures that may be required by other satellites</span>. Intelligence Directly related to improved SSA is a robust intelligence effort that focuses on Chinese anti-satellite activity. Indications and warning may include increased communication at tracking stations, deployment of mobile tracking stations, and fueling and dispersal of launch vehicles. Identification and reporting of Chinese anti-satellite preparations would enable execution of preemptive defensive actions by the United States. Preplanned Satellite Actions <span style="text-decoration: none;">Establishing preplanned actions is key to deterring and reacting to an anti-satellite attack. </span>While the time from launch to impact for the SC-19 is on the order of minutes, intelligence of an impending launch can lengthen the timeline for taking preemptive defensive actions. While limited on-board fuel prevents large orbital maneuvers, a one-time small change to a satellite's orbit is possible. These <span style="text-decoration: none;">orbital maneuvers must be executed before the launch of the anti-satellite weapon</span>. Changes in orbit will produce a discrepancy between the anticipated satellite location and the final satellite tracking just prior to launch. The inconsistency may cause the Chinese to doubt the quality of their data and delay the launch as they develop new orbital tracking data, thus opening a window for additional US actions to prevent a launch. However, if the Chinese did decide to launch without updating their data, the slight change in orbit may cause the antisatellite weapon to miss. These same procedures would also be effective against ground-based anti-satellite weapons; a maneuver could lead to a laser missing the target. Having preplanned actions ready to execute provides United States planners another option. <span style="text-decoration: none;">If a conflict looks to be inevitable, they could decide to rapidly execute minor maneuvers across satellite constellations</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">While not only complicating the Chinese targeting process, this could serve as non-destructive shot across the bow. If the conflict escalates into a conventional war, the single maneuver may buy the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">enough time to execute a kinetic strike that would dismantle the Chinese anti-satellite program.</span> The importance of these strikes would move the priority high on the targeting list. Here again, intelligence is a key enabler. Targets must be accurately located, vetted, and updated to enable quick strikes on the anti-satellite targets. Variable and Rapid Launch Capability <span style="text-decoration: none;">The current United States Department of Defense launch complex does not have the capability to rapidly replenish satellites in the event of destruction. Launch preparation and execution can take weeks to months. The United States must adopt rapid and flexible commercial launch technologies</span>. Of at least equal importance to having a rapid launch capability is a launch system that deploys satellites from varying locations. When launched from the traditional space ports of Cape Canaveral and Vandenberg Air Force Base, China can easily monitor the launch and quickly determine the initial orbit and possibly satellite type. Having a capability that can unpredictably launch from unmonitored locations will delay China's ability to track and identify United States satellites, greatly inhibiting their ability to target satellites. This capability could be sea-based, where monitoring by an adversary is more difficult. The capability could also be airborne, like the Pegasus program which has successfully launched satellites using an L-I0ll aircraft from California, Virginia, Florida, the Canary Islands, and the Marshall Islands. 48 Small Satellites <span style="text-decoration: none;">The United States must also make a move towards smaller satellites that use a common bus and architecture</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">A single launch vehicle could then deploy multiple small satellites, allowing the rapid establishment of a new constellation at the beginning of a conflict or replenishment of an old one</span>. China would then face a dilemma as to which satellites they would attack. If China does decide to attack, the impact would be proportionately smaller because they would take out a lesser percentage of the constellation. The Iridium collision demonstrated the ability of a large constellation to absorb the loss of single satellite with minimal degradation. 49 <span style="text-decoration: none;">Having numerous small satellites ready to launch can also lesson the need to perform defensive orbital maneuvers, as they can be quickly replenished</span>. Finally, <span style="text-decoration: none;">small satellites are inherently harder to track whether by radar or optical telescopes</span>. While a requirement for large satellites remains; small satellites will help protect and complement the large satellites. Key to developing small satellites is a common command and control (C2) network regardless of function, rather than today's stovepiped C2 that are unique for each satellite type. A common bus and C2 system can also support small satellites by relying on a cross-linked network to control satellites and download mission data from a central location rather than on ground stations distributed around the globe. Decreased Dependence on Space Systems The United States must decrease its dependence on space systems, making attack on satellites a less appealing target. United States military forces should have weapons and procedures that can function with or without satellite support. For example, high altitude unmanned aerial vehicles can and should complement, and potentially replace, the LEO satellite ISR mission. Countering High-altitude Nuclear Explosions Although the possibility of a HANE may be remote, <span style="text-decoration: none;">defense against the long term radiation effects must focus on hardening all future satellites against nuclear explosions. Without hardening, depending on the size of the constellation, satellite replenishment could take months and quickly exhaust satellite spares even with rapid reaction launch capabilities</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Building satellites to withstand the nuclear weapon radiation effects beyond that required against the natural environment would add only 2 to 3 percent to total satellite cost</span>.50 Consideration may be given to forgoing hardening for satellites designed for a short (days to weeks) lifetime; one should consider the radiation from a nuclear explosion may remain for up to two years, precluding the launch of non-hardened satellites into the affected orbital regime. 51 While some government low-earth orbit satellites are already hardened, the United States should harden all future satellites. Institutional Changes Changes must be properly incorporated into the DoD infrastructure to be effective. All aspects of doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel and facilities must be examined. Additionally, the changes must work across many organizations within the DoD and throughout the United States government. For example, STRATCOM should run comprehensive anti-satellite exercises that incorporate all applicable services and agencies, from the satellite operator to the end user. Transparency <span style="text-decoration: none;">The above actions may deter China from further pursuing its anti-satellite programs, but only if executed in a transparent manner. Systems must be fully trained and tested; the United States must overtly demonstrate its capability to rapidly deploy satellites. China must be made fully aware of US capabilities to effectively counter its anti-satellite weapons</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">China may then realize that its actions will have minimal effect on US military capabilities</span>. **Engagement** Beyond using a military response to protect government satellites, the United States should consider a holistic approach to China's anti-satellite capabilities by using the other elements of national power: diplomatic, information, and economic. China's current reliance on space is minimal when compared to the United States. China can therefore afford to use antisatellite weapons against the United States. Increased Chinese reliance on space would provide significant deterrents to Chinese use ofcertain weapons such as direct ascent, co-orbital, and nuclear, since collateral damage from these weapons would affect China. First, the United States should engage on Chinese proposed treaties limiting space weapons. Next, the United States should work to build Chinese economic dependence on space systems, while taking appropriate measures to limit technology transfer. With a gap between the Space Shuttle and Ares launch vehicles, an opportunity exists to bring China in as a partner on the International Space Station by providing equipment launch services. Working with China to build its reliance on and participation in space activities will help build deterrence to the use of anti-satellite weapons; the collateral effects would harm its own interests. ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS While this paper focuses on LEO satellites, the same rigor must also be applied to medium Earth orbit (MEO), highly elliptical orbit (REO), and geosynchronous (GEO) orbit satellites. Although current direct ascent anti-satellite capability can only reach LEO, China's ballistic· missile and space launch vehicles could reach higher orbits. Additionally, China has orbited GEO satellites which could already be carrying co-orbital anti-satellite weapons. China has expressed interest in combating the MEO GPS system through both kinetic and non-kinetic attacks.52 China is also actively developing jamming capabilities to combat United States military communications satellites found predominately in GEO. Additionally, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the proposed defensive measures will do more than support deterrence against China. Numerous nations will seek to emulate Chinese actions with kinetic and nonkinetic options</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">In response to the recent anti-satellite activity of China and the United States, Russia announced the resumption of its anti-satellite weapons program</span>.53 <span style="text-decoration: none;">Ground-based actions such as jamming are within the realm of many nations and individuals</span>. One only need look at the hijacking of the HBO satellite signal by "Capt Midnight" as an example of a single individual being able to steal a satellite transponder, in effect jamming the intended signal. 54 Further, <span style="text-decoration: none;">proliferation of nuclear weapon and ballistic missile technology make the use of a HANE attractive to a rogue nation or terrorist nation that has little reliance on space capabilities</span>. The Defense Threat Reduction Agency suggests this scenario as a possible last act of defiance by North Korean forces facing defeat,55 Lastly, <span style="text-decoration: none;">these measures can be used to combat natural phenomena, such as a meteor shower or solar storms that can damage satellite systems</span>. “<span style="text-decoration: none;">A strategy that ensures access to and use of space is useful in times of peace just as in times of war, since space systems that provide critical services may fail or become inoperative in the absence of hostile action</span>.”56 Finally, the United States must not stop at applying these recommendations merely to military satellites. While government satellites are critical in a conflict, commercial satellites in all orbital regimes have become an integral part of military operations to include weather, imaging, and communications. Although tightly tied to the world economy, China could decide to expand its anti-satellite program to attack the economic interests of the United States. While commercial satellites companies typically incorporate protective measures against natural threats, the United States government should share best practices and provide incentives to commercial entities to protect themselves against human threats. The government could do this through requirements to obtain licensing or guaranteed govemment contracts to companies that comply. CONCLUSION The fundamental U.S. security interest in the wake of China's 2007 anti-satellite test should be deterring China and others from attacking U.S. assets in space, using both a combination of declaratory policy, military programs, and diplomacy, and promoting a more stable and secure space environment.57 Council on Foreign Relations <span style="text-decoration: none;">The United States government requires a comprehensive plan to counter the threat to its LEO systems posed by Chinese anti-satellite weapons</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Failing to protect these key satellites would severely degrade US military capabilities in a conflict with China. The United States should rely on a defensive space strategy to deter Chinese anti-satellite actions. The strategy must include robust space situational awareness, preplanned actions, small satellites, rapid and variable launch capability, decreased dependence on space systems and institutional changes</span>. In total, these actions would complicate the ability for Chinese anti-satellite weapons to easily strike US assets while providing the means to operate through an attack and then reconstitute lost capability. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The DoD's ORS effort can be used as springboard, but must be accelerated to meet the rapidly emerging threat</span>. Finally, its growth as a space faring nation may eventually be the best deterrence against a Chinese attack on United States satellites. However, the actions outlined in this paper can also be used to counter threats from other nations or natural phenomena. A rapid comprehensive defensive deterrence approach most effectively counters the Chinese threat and meets Presidential guidance to establish “contingency plans to ensure that U.S. forces can maintain or duplicate access to information from space assets and accelerating programs to harden U.S. satellites against attack.”58

==1AC Solar Storms== 
===Advantage Two is Solar Storms –=== 

They’ll hit Earth in 2013 –no precise mechanism for predicting the time of impact
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Wall 9/13</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">–[</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Mike, SPACE.com Senior Writer, 'Old Faithful' Sunspot to Fire Off More Solar Flares, Scientists Say,</span><span style="color: #0000cc; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.space.com/12921-sun-solar-flares-faithful-sunspot.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">An active region of the sun that blasted out powerful solar storms four days in a row last week likely isn't done yet, scientists say</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Officially, the flare-spouting region is called sunspot 1283. But space weather experts have dubbed it "Old Faithful," after the famous geyser in the United States' Yellowstone National Park that goes off like clockwork. And the solar Old Faithful should erupt again before it dissipates, researchers said. "It still has a fair amount of complexity," said solar physicist C. Alex Young of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. "So we still have a pretty good chance of seeing some more stuff from this one." An active sunspot Sunspots are temporary dark patches on the solar surface caused by intense magnetic activity. Some last for hours before disappearing; others linger for days, weeks or even months. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Powerful solar storms often erupt from sunspots. These include radiation-flinging solar flares and phenomena known as coronal mass ejections (CMEs) — massive clouds of solar plasma that can streak through space at up to 3 million mph</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (5 million kph). </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">From Sept. 5-8, sunspot 1283 produced four big flares and three CMEs</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Two of the flares were X-class events and two were M-class flares. (</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Strong solar flares are classified according to a three-tiered system: X-class are the most powerful</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, M-class are of medium strength and C-class are the weakest.) While the rapid motion previously observed in sunspot 1283 seems to have died down a bit, Young said, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the sunspot looks poised to erupt again sometime soon</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">"There's a good probability that we're still going to see at least another M-class flare, possibly another X-class flare,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">" Young told SPACE.com. It's not uncommon for sunspots to pop off a number of powerful flares in quick succession the way 1283 has done, he added. That seems to be the natural order of things. "When you see one big flare, your chances of seeing another one are pretty good," Young said. A photo of a sunspot taken in May 2010, with Earth shown to scale. The image has been colorized for aesthetic reasons. This image with 0.1 arcsecond resolution from the Swedish 1-m Solar Telescope represents the limit of what is currently possible in terms of spatial resolution. CREDIT: The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, V.M.J. Henriques (sunspot), NASA Apollo 17 (Earth) View full size imageLearning more about solar storms </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Solar flares directed at Earth can cause</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> temporary radio</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">-communication blackouts</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">CMEs have even greater destructive potential; they can spawn geomagnetic storms that disrupt GPS signals, radio communications and power grid</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">s. [Sun's Wrath: Worst Solar Storms in History] </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">So researchers are working hard to better understand sun storms, with the aim of one day being able to predict them with a great deal of accuracy and a long lead time. But they're not there yet</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. "We still have a long way to go to really have the kind of forecasting capabilities that we have with terrestrial weather," Young said. That's not to say scientists aren't making progress. Indeed, they've learned a lot about solar eruptions lately, Young said. And the knowledge base will continue to grow, he added, as a fleet of sun-watching spacecraft beam home more and more observations of Earth's star. "We're really in a great time right now in terms of the data that we have," Young said, citing the contributions of spacecraft such as NASA's STEREO and Solar Dynamics Observatory, as well as SOHO, a collaboration between NASA and the European Space Agency. "It's going to be pretty exciting, from a solar physics and a space weather point of view." All of these eyes on the sun should be treated to quite a show over the next several years. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Solar activity has been ramping up over the last few months as the sun works toward a maximum in its 11-year activity cycle. Scientists expect the peak of the current cycle, which is known as Solar Cycle 24, to come in 2013. </span>

We win uniqueness – storms at their peak – worse than previous storms
<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Lovett 11</span> –[Richard, National Geographic, “What if the biggest solar storm on record happened today?”, March 2nd, [[http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2011/03/110302-solar-flares-sun-storms-earth-danger-carrington-event-science/]]]
On <span style="text-decoration: none;">February 14 the sun erupted with the largest solar flare seen in four years</span>—big enough to interfere with radio communications and GPS signals for airplanes on long-distance flights. As solar storms go, the Valentine's Day flare was actually modest. <span style="text-decoration: none;">But the burst of activity is only the start of the upcoming solar maximum, due to peak **in the next couple of years."**The sun has an activity cycle, much like hurricane season</span>," Tom Bogdan, director of the Space Weather Prediction Center in Boulder, Colorado, said earlier this month at a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington, D.C."<span style="text-decoration: none;">It's been hibernating for four or five years, not doing much of anything</span>." Now <span style="text-decoration: none;">the sun is waking up</span>, and even though the upcoming solar maximum may see a record low in the overall amount of activity, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the individual events could be very powerful</span>.
**<span style="background-color: white;">The </span>**probability is 100**<span style="background-color: white;">%</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Sternstein 10</span><span style="background-color: white;">-[ staff correspondent at</span> //<span style="background-color: white;">Nextgov</span>//<span style="background-color: white;">,</span> **<span style="background-color: white;">2010</span>** <span style="background-color: white;">(Aliya, “Agencies rush to replace aging satellite to predict damaging solar storms,”</span> //<span style="background-color: white;">Nextgov</span>//<span style="background-color: white;">, part of the National Journal Group Inc. and the Atlantic Media Company, August 9, [[http://www.nextgov.com/nextgov/ng_20100809_7393.php]])</span>
<span style="background-color: white;"> Every 11 years…not that great."]</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Every 11 years, solar activity intensifies, and the next peak in activity is scheduled for 2013</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The most significant storm on record hit in 1859, illuminating the night sky in light and shorting telegraph systems worldwide.</span> Sparks shocked operators and set paper aflame. Today, <span style="text-decoration: none;">space weather of that magnitude would be a significant problem for spacecraft</span>, astronauts and planes flying in high altitudes because they would encounter radiation from solar material. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Such conditions also would interfere with modern high-frequency radio communications and GPS navigation</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The nation has become increasingly dependent on communications and location-based technologies,</span> including smart phones, electronic financial transactions and power grids, so the impact would be far greater than it was in 1859, federal officials said. "The whole thing about going into another active period of solar activity is: It's going to happen. We just don't know when, we don't know the severity of it, but we know it has happened," <span style="text-decoration: none;">FEMA Administrator W. Craig Fugate said in June at the U.S. government's annual space weather conference, which focused on critical infrastructure protection. "This isn't just a hypothetical what-if. We actually know. We have seen these events occur before, so this isn't something that we've got to go convince people that this might happen. It has happened. We're just fortunate that the frequency is not that great.</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">Huge solar flares knock out U.S communication and GPS satellites</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Marusek 07</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">-[nuclear physicist and engineer, 2007 (James A., “Solar Storm</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Threat Analysis,” Impact, </span><span style="color: #374352; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.breadandbutterscience.com/SSTA.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">]</span>
In the past, <span style="text-decoration: none;">solar storms have caused billions of dollars of commercial satellites to malfunction and die prematurely. A Great solar storm has the power to destroy</span> many <span style="text-decoration: none;">space assets</span> (Space Station, Space Shuttle, <span style="text-decoration: none;">LEO Satellites, GEO Satellites,</span> Off World Missions) <span style="text-decoration: none;">simultaneously.</span> In our technology driven society, <span style="text-decoration: none;">satellites play an important role in communications. The loss of satellites can affect: major news wire service feeds, network television, satellite television and cable programming, nationwide radio service, weather data, cell phone service, pagers, automated teller machines, gas station credit card handling services, airline weather tracking services, earthquake monitoring network, blackberries, GPS navigation service</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">and critical military & airline communication</span>s. And this list grows longer every day. Current commercial satellites are light-weight, sophisticated, built at the lowest cost using off-the-shelf electronics. 3 This current low cost approach makes new satellite design <span style="text-decoration: none;">more vulnerable to damage from solar storms due to less radiation hardening</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">A high-energy particle from an SPE can penetrate the wall of a satellite and deposit sufficient charge to cause an electrical upset to a circuit switch, false command, memory state change or loss</span>. 1 As the nuclear particles collide within the spacecraft, they release electrons that build up an internal dielectric charge. This static charge can destroy circuitry on electronic boards. The particles can also change data and instructions stored in computer memory. Only deaths with “day, month and year” listed were used in this analysis.Impact, 2007 James A. Marusek 21 Some of the memory damage is soft causing Single Event Upset (SEU). Generally, this anomaly can be corrected by a computer reboot. But some of the damage can be hard causing unrepairable physical damage to the junction of the microcircuit. These types of failures can be fatal.

<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Radiation from the flares renders satellites inoperable- this will collapse the economy</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Forbes9-14</span>-11-[“A Powerful Solar Storm Could Render Satellites Inoperable For Years;”( http://www.forbes.com/sites/alexknapp/2011/09/14/a-powerful-solar-storm-could-render-satellites-inoperable-for-years/]jt

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Last October, around Halloween, the Sun produced a solar storm that was one of the largest ever recorded, and was strong enough to raise some concerns about the safety of Earth’s satellites.</span> According to a recent paper published in Space Weather, <span style="text-decoration: none;">such concern may well be justified</span>. If its conclusions are correct, then a <span style="text-decoration: none;">solar storm the size of one that was observed in 1859 could potentially kill several weather, telecommunications, and military satellites in less than a year</span>. Here’s where the danger lies: <span style="text-decoration: none;">most satellites, at least at some point in their orbits, fly through the inner radiation belt surrounding the Earth</span> (aka the Van Allen Belt). The inner radiation belt, like it says on the tin, comprises quite a bit of intense radiation. However, satellites are shielded from that radiation, and the intensity of the radiation in the inner belt is relatively stable. That’s because it’s in large part shielded from high-energy particles by the plasmasphere, which is a cloud of plasma that is part of the Earth’s magnetosphere. Usually, <span style="text-decoration: none;">when a solar storm hits, most of the radiation either hits the outer radiation belt or the plasmaphere. When the plasmasphere gets hit, some of the plasma dissipates, making it smaller, but that dissipation prevents too much intense radiation from hitting the inner belt.</span> During the Halloween storms, observations showed that there was significant erosion of the plasmasphere. Not enough to let significant radiation into the inner belt, but enough that the study authors wanted to take a closer look at the data. Based on observational data of solar storms, the radiation belts, and the plasmasphere during past years, the authors were able to successfully model the Halloween solar storm. They then modeled a solar storm with the intensity of the Carrington Solar Storm, which took place in 1859 and is estimated to have been about four times stronger than the Halloween storms. When the Carrington storm was modeled, the results showed that the plasmasphere was eroded to the point that much more radiation reached the inner belt than is normally the case. Moreover, the intensity produced “waves” of strong radiation continually moving through the inner belt. Based on their models, the authors suggest that the <span style="text-decoration: none;">high radiation intensity of the inner belt could persist for as long as a decade. That intensity would likely swamp the radiation shielding on a typical satellite, and</span> the authors estimate that most <span style="text-decoration: none;">would be rendered inoperable</span> within a year after the storm. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The loss of satellites as a result of a solar storm would be an economic catastrophe – we rely on satellites for a large portion of our day to day lives, </span>even when we don’t realize it. The researchers hope to continue their work modeling radiation from solar storms, with an eye towards better and more accurate predictions, as well as looking for ways to diminish the impacts of such storms. In the meantime, the authors suggest that satellite engineers incorporate the potential for intensification of the inner radiation belt in their radiation mitigation strategies. That strikes me as a good idea.


Economic collapse invites multiple scenarios for nuclear war and aggression
<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8 –[</span>[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, ][[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Then there are</span> the dolorous <span style="text-decoration: none;">consequences of a</span> potential <span style="text-decoration: none;">collapse of the world's financial architecture. For decades now, Americans have enjoyed the advantages of being at the center of that system. The worldwide use of the dollar</span>, and the stability of our economy, among other things, <span style="text-decoration: none;">made it easier for us to run</span> huge budget <span style="text-decoration: none;">deficits, as we counted on foreigners to pick up the tab by buying dollar-denominated assets as a safe haven</span>. Will this be possible in the future? Meanwhile, <span style="text-decoration: none;">traditional foreign-policy challenges are multiplying. The threat from al Qaeda</span> and Islamic terrorist affiliates <span style="text-decoration: none;">has not been extinguished. Iran and North Korea are continuing on their bellicose paths</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">while Pakistan and Afghanistan are progressing</span> smartly <span style="text-decoration: none;">down the road to chaos. Russia's new militancy and China's seemingly relentless rise also give cause for concern</span>. If America now tries to pull back from the world stage, it will leave a dangerous power vacuum. The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of last resort for Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario <span style="text-decoration: none;">there are shades of the 1930s, when global</span> trade and <span style="text-decoration: none;">finance ground nearly to a halt, the peaceful democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers led by the remorseless fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster exploited their divisions. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become</span> ever more <span style="text-decoration: none;">reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability. The aftershocks of the financial crisis will almost certainly rock our principal strategic competitors</span> even harder than they will rock us. The dramatic free fall of the <span style="text-decoration: none;">Russian stock market has demonstrated the fragility of a state whose economic performance hinges on high oil prices</span>, now driven down by the global slowdown. <span style="text-decoration: none;">China is perhaps even more fragile</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">its economic growth depend</span>ing heavily <span style="text-decoration: none;">on foreign investment</span> and access to foreign markets. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Both will</span> now <span style="text-decoration: none;">be constricted</span>, inflicting economic pain and perhaps even sparking unrest <span style="text-decoration: none;">in a country where political legitimacy rests on progress in the long march to prosperity. None of this is good news if the authoritarian leaders of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.</span>

Redundancy and Reconstitution is key to protect satellite systems
<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">CBS 9-28</span>-11-[September 28, 2011 1:06 PM PRINT TEXT -“Satellites threatened by sun "superstorms" By Charles Q. Choi [[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/09/28/scitech/main20112845.shtml%5djt|http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/09/28/scitech/main20112845.shtml]jt]]

(Space.com) <span style="text-decoration: none;">Magnetic storms set off by the sun could pose a bigger threat than thought to weather, communication, military and other satellites close to Earth, with a potentially devastating economic impact, scientists suggest</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">In the new study, researchers found that solar radiation can energize a belt of high-energy particles that surrounds Earth more dramatically than previously believed</span>. The study focused on the possible effects of a particularly strong magnetic storm on the Van Allen radiation belts, the dangerous rings of high-energy particles that girdle the Earth. The belts are split into two distinct zones. The outer belt, which is made up of electrons, reaches from about 15,800 to 31,600 miles (25,500 to 51,000 kilometers) above the surface, while the inner belt, which consists of a mix of electrons and protons, reaches from about 4,000 to 8,000 miles (6,400 to 12,800 km) above. Scientists had known the outer belt could become far more intense during geomagnetic storms caused by high-energy particles spewed by the sun, such as the storm that supercharged Earth's northern lights display Monday night (Sept. 26). However, they have long thought such storms do not affect the inner belt. Now computer simulations suggest <span style="text-decoration: none;">that during a "superstorm" -- which has occurred in the past and is likely to recur in the future</span> ? <span style="text-decoration: none;">the electrons in the inner belt, too, could become energized</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Near-Earth radiation could then remain dramatically more intense for several years afterward. "The increase in radiation in the inner zone may last for up to a decade and continue damaging satellites for years after a very strong storm</span>," study lead author Yuri Shprits, a space physicist at the University of California, Los Angeles, told SPACE.com. <span style="text-decoration: none;">This radiation would damage satellites in that zone and potentially cut their lifetimes by five-sixths or more</span>. [Related: Space Radiation to Rise for Astronauts, Airline Passengers] "It would not destroy all satellites at once," Shprits said. "However, at least according to our calculations, <span style="text-decoration: none;">a very strong storm can increase the radiation dose in the inner zone by a factor of 10, and within a few years we may lose a significant portion of the satellites that traverse the inner zone.</span>" <span style="text-decoration: none;">In terms of new strategies that might be needed to protect satellite systems</span>, "it's hard to say," Shprits said. "First of all, we need to estimate risks and estimate cost. <span style="text-decoration: none;">If cost is too high, we may want to accept the risks and start getting ready to replenish the fleet in the case of such event</span>." "There are a number of rather expensive strategies that can be used to mitigate the risk, including redundancy in electronics and increased shielding," he added. "Zero risk means infinite cost." Two missions to study the radiation belts are planned for 2012, Shprits noted: NASA's Radiation Belt Storm Probe will observe radiation belts in the equatorial plane, while Moscow State University's LOMONOSOV mission, with UCLA-built instruments on board, will observe radiation belts at low altitudes. The scientists detailed their findings online in the Aug. 25 issue of the journal Space Weather.

=Negative= 
neg cites - Ajay: [[@https://mail.google.com/mail/?view=cm&fs=1&tf=1&to=ajisthe@gmail.com|ajisthe@gmail.com]]
Because of partnership changes, I'll just keep updating this page with neg strats from tournies.
==Disads== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Coercion DA</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disadvantages-Coercion DA-1NC]]**1NC**</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The aff’s involuntary theft of property for exploration is immoral and wrong.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Pisaturo 4</span>** (Ronald Pisaturo, writer for Ayn Rand institute, “Mars: Who Should Own It” <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.ronpisaturo.com/mars/marswsoi.html]]</span>)

<span class="BoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">A capitalist, </span>private-property<span class="BoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> policy </span>is not an alternative moral policy for <span class="BoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">the </span>exploration<span class="BoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> of Mars</span>; <span class="BoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">it is the only moral policy.</span> If <span class="BoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">no private organization wants to explore Mars in the absence of government financing, then-unless there is a valid military need-</span>Mars should not be explored. <span class="BoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The proper, </span>moral purpose of government is to protect the rights of its citizens-the rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness-and the right required in order for these other rights to be secured: the right to property. <span class="BoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is not the proper purpose of government to launch its own ventures</span> in religion nor (on the same principle that requires the separation of church and state) <span class="BoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">to engage in business,</span> art, charity-or science. <span class="BoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is doubly wrong when the government in fact violates the property rights of its citizens by spending the money earned by those hard-working citizens on such ventures. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The impact is mass genocides</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Browne 95</span>**, former Libertarian presidential candidat
(Harry, executive director of public policy at American Liberty Foundation, editor of Liberty Magazine, financial advisor and economist, Why Government Doesn’t Work, pg 66-67)

The reformers of the Cambodian revolution claimed to be building a better world. They forced people into reeducation programs to make them better citizens. Then they used force to regulate every aspect ofcommercial life. Then they forced office workers and intellectuals to give up their jobs and harvest rice, to round out their education. When people resisted having their lives turned upside down, the reformers had to use more and more force. By the time they were done, they had killed a third of the country’s population, destroyed the lives of almost everyone still alive, and devastated a nation. It all began with using force for the best of intentions—to create a better world. The Soviet leaders used coercion to provide economic security and to build a “New Man”—a human being who would put his fellow man ahead of himself. At least 10 million people died to help build the New Man and the Workers’ Paradise. But human nature never changed—and the workers’ lives were always Hell, not Paradise. In the 1930s many Germans gladly traded civil liberties for the economic revival and national pride Adolf Hitler promised them. But like every other grand dream to improve society by force, it ended in a nightmare of devastation and death. Professor R.J. Rummel has calculated that 119 million people have been killed by their own governments in this century. Were these people criminals? No, they were people who simply didn’t fit into the New Order—people who preferred their own dreams to those of the reformers. Every time you allow government to use force to make society better, you move another step closer to the nightmares of Cambodia, the Soviet Union, and Nazi Germany. We’ve already moved so far that our own government can perform with impunity the outrages described in the preceding chapters. These examples aren’t cases of government gone wrong; they are examples of government—period. They are what governments do—just as chasing cats is what dogs do. They are the natural consequence of letting government use force to bring about a drug-free nation, to tax someone else to better your life, to guarantee your economic security, to assure that no one can mistreat you or hurt your feelings, and to cover up the damage of all the failed government programs that came before.

===Debris=== 
====**1NC**==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">We are at the tipping point of space debris. </span>**
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oremus on 9-2</span>//
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Will, “Space: The Final Frontier for Our Junk”, http://slatest.slate.com/posts/2011/09/02/space_junk_report_finds_debris_in_earth_s_orbit_near_tipping_poi.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">It’s time to worry, says a new report from the National Research Council. The amount of debris floating in orbit around Earth has been growing exponentially and may have already reached a “tipping point.” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">What kind of tipping point? Well, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">in 1978 a NASA scientist named Donald Kessler predicted that, as the amount of space debris grows, it could eventually become dense enough to touch off a “collision cascade.” In that scenario, each collision would generate new debris, causing more debris-generating collisions, until low Earth orbit becomes hopelessly clogged and unusable by spacecraft or even satellites.We’re not there yet, but we could be on our way</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, the Washington Post reports. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">A pair of recent collisions has doubled the number of fragments since 2007. There are now an estimated 22,000 hunks of debris large enough for NASA to track individually, and there could be hundreds of thousands or millions more bits that we can’t see.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> From the Post: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Active satellites are at risk of damage and “as the amount of debris increases, there will be increases in the cost of operating</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">” satellites, said Brian Weeden, a technical adviser with the Secure World Foundation, which focuses on space sustainability. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Manned spacecraft are also in danger. The international space station had a close call in late June, when an unidentified object came within 1,100 feet</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> but caused no damage; astronauts were preemptively evacuated to emergency spacecraft.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, any increase in launches risks setting off the cascade effect</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Michael W. </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Taylor ‘7</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. Chief of the Space and International Law Division at Headquarters United States Air Force Space Command at Peterson Air Force Base in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Trashing the Solar System One Planet at a Time: Earth's Orbital Debris Problem. Georgetown International Environmental Law Review. Fall, 2007. Accessed via Lexis/Nexis</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Estimates </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">of the future levels of risk are even more speculative than estimates of current risk levels, but most </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">show an alarming trend of increasing debris. A </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">January 2006</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> NASA study </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">estimates the amount of debris ten centimeters and larger in LEO will triple within 200 years, increasing the likelihood of debris collisions by a factor of ten. n126 The greatest concentration of orbital debris will be located in the regions 800-900 kilometers and 1400-1500 kilometers in altitude. n127 The study acknowledges it </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">seriously underestimates the future risk </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">because it assumes no further launches into space. n128 For each of the past five years, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">launch providers have sent an average of sixty-one rockets into orbit each year. n</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">129 Considering that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">each of these launches produces multiple pieces of debris in addition to one or more payloads,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> the future risk in the NASA study is understated. The cascade effect is the greatest fear of those who study the problem of orbital debris. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">If the cascade effect begins, orbital debris would collide with other space objects, which in turn would create new debris that would cause even more collisions.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> In this way, orbital </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">debris would become self-generating and could make certain regions of space completely unusable, even without new satellites </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [*19] being placed in those areas. n130 International efforts aimed at mitigating the creation of new debris have helped, n131 but will not alone solve the problem. That is why many authors are calling for increased research efforts into technologies for remediation-removal of existing debris from space. n132 Unfortunately, remediation measures are currently economically or technologically unfeasible. n133</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The impact is accidental war with Russia</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jeffery </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lewis ‘4.</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy . Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, Available Online @ <http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is the second of two scenarios that consider how U.S. space weapons might create incentives for America’s opponents to behave in dangerous ways. The previous scenario looked at the systemic risk of accidents that could arise from keeping nuclear weapons on high alert to guard against a space weapons attack. This section focuses on the risk that a single accident in space, such </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">as a piece of space debris striking a Russian early-warning satellite, might be the catalyst for an accidental nuclear war. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">As we have noted in an earlier section, the United States canceled its own ASAT program in the 1980s over concerns that the deployment of these weapons might be deeply destabiliz- ing. For all the talk about a “new relationship” between the United States and Russia</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">, both sides retain thousands of nuclear forces on alert and conﬁgured to ﬁght a nuclear war.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> When briefed about the size and status of U.S. nuclear forces, President George W. Bush reportedly asked “What do we need all these weapons for?”43 The answer, as it was during the Cold War, is that the forces remain on alert to conduct a number of possible contingencies, including a nuclear strike against Russia. This fact, of course, is not lost on the Rus- sian leadership, which has been increasing its reliance on nuclear weapons to compensate for the country’s declining military might. In the mid-1990s, Russia dropped its pledge to refrain from the “ﬁrst use” of nuclear weapons and conducted a series of exercises in which Russian nuclear forces prepared to use nuclear weapons to repel a NATO invasion. In October 2003, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov reiter- ated that Moscow might use nuclear weapons “preemptively” in any number of contingencies, including a NATO attack.44 So, it remains business as usual with U.S. and Russian nuclear forces. And business as usual includes the occasional false alarm of a nuclear attack. There have been several of these incidents over the years. In September 1983, as a relatively new Soviet early-warning satellite moved into position to monitor U.S. missile ﬁelds in North Dakota, the sun lined up in just such a way as to fool the Russian satellite into reporting that half a dozen U.S. missiles had been launched at the Soviet Union. Perhaps mindful that a brand new satel- lite might malfunction, the ofﬁcer in charge of the command center that monitored data from the early-warning satellites refused to pass the alert to his superiors. He reportedly explained his caution by saying: “When people start a war, they don’t start it with only ﬁve missiles. You can do little damage with just ﬁve missiles.”</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">45 In January 1995, Norwegian scientists launched a sounding rocket on a trajectory similar to one that a U.S. Trident missile might take</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> if it were launched to blind Russian radars with a high altitude nuclear detonation. The incident was apparently serious enough that, the next day, Russian President Boris </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Yeltsin stated that he had activated his “nuclear football”</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – a device that allows the Russian president to communicate with his military advisors and review his options for launching his arsenal. In this case, the Russian early-warning satellites could clearly see that no attack was under way and the crisis passed without incident.46 In both cases, Russian observers were conﬁ-dent that what appeared to be a “small” attack was not a fragmentary picture of a much larger one. In the case of the Norwegian sounding rocket,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> space-based sensors played a crucial role in assuring the Russian leadership that it was not under attack.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> The Russian command sys-tem, however, is no longer able to provide such reliable, early warning. The dissolution of the Soviet Union cost Moscow several radar stations in newly independent states, creating “attack cor-ridors” through which Moscow could not see an attack launched by U.S. nuclear submarines.47 Further, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Russia’s constellation of early-warn-ing satellites has been allowed to decline</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – only one or two of the six satellites remain operational, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">leaving Russia with early warning for only six hours a day.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Russia is attempting to reconstitute its constellation of early-warning satellites, with several launches planned in the next few years. But </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Russia will still have limited warning and will depend heavily on its space-based systems to provide warning of an American attack.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">48 As the previous section explained, the Penta- gon is contemplating military missions in space that will improve U.S. ability to cripple Russian nuclear forces in a crisis before they can execute an attack on the United States. Anti-satellite weapons, in this scenario, would blind Russian reconnaissance and warning satellites and knock out communications satellites. Such strikes might be the prelude to a full-scale attack, or a limited ef- fort, as attempted in a war game at Schriever Air Force Base, to conduct “early deterrence strikes” to signal U.S. resolve and control escalation.49 By 2010, the United States may, in fact, have an arsenal of ASATs (perhaps even on orbit 24/7) ready to conduct these kinds of missions – to coerce opponents and, if necessary, support preemptive attacks. Moscow would certainly have to worry that these ASATs could be used in conjunction with other space-enabled systems – for example, long-range strike systems that could attack targets in less than 90 minutes – to disable Russia’s nuclear deterrent before the Rus- sian leadership understood what was going on. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">What would happen if a piece of space debris were to disable a Russian early-warning satel-lite</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> under these conditions? Could the Russian military distinguish between an accident in space and the ﬁrst phase of a U.S. attack? Most Russian early-warning satellites are in elliptical Molniya orbits (a few are in GEO) and thus difﬁcult to attack from the ground or air. At a minimum, Moscow would probably have some tactical warn-ing of such a suspicious launch, but given the sorry state of Russia’s warning, optical imaging and signals intelligence satellites there is reason to ask the question. Further, the advent of U.S. on-orbit ASATs, as now envisioned50 could make both the more difﬁcult orbital plane and any warning systems moot. The unpleasant truth is that the </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Russians likely would have to make a judgment call. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">No state has the ability to deﬁnitively deter-mine the cause of the satellite’s failure</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. Even the United States does not maintain </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(nor is it likely to have in place by 2010) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">a sophisticated space surveillance system that would allow it to distin- guish between a satellite malfunction, a debris strike or a deliberate attack – and Russian space surveillance capabilities are much more limited by comparison.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Even the risk assessments for col-lision with debris are speculative, particularly for the unique orbits in which Russian early-warning satellites operate. During peacetime, it is easy to imagine that the Russians would conclude that the loss of a satellite was either a malfunction or a debris strike. But how conﬁdent could U.S. planners be that the Russians would be so calm if the accident in space occurred in tandem with a second false alarm, or occurred during the middle of a crisis? What might happen if the debris strike oc-curred shortly after a false alarm showing a mis-sile launch? False alarms are appallingly common – according to information obtained under the Freedom of Information Act, the U.S.-Canadian North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) experienced 1,172 “moderately seri-ous” false alarms between 1977 and 1983 – an average of almost three false alarms per week. Comparable information is not available about the Russian system, but there is no reason to believe that it is any more reliable.51 Assessing the likelihood of these sorts of co- incidences is difﬁcult because Russia has never provided data about the frequency or duration of false alarms; nor indicated how seriously early- warning data is taken by Russian leaders. More- over, there is no reliable estimate of the debris risk for Russian satellites in highly elliptical orbits.52 The important point, however, is that such a coincidence would only appear suspicious if the United States were in the business of disabling satellites – in other words, there is much less risk if Washington does not develop ASATs. The loss of an early-warning satellite could look rather ominous if it occurred during a pe- riod of major tension in the relationship. While NATO no longer sees Russia as much of a threat, the same cannot be said of the converse. Despite the warm talk, Russian leaders remain wary of NATO expansion, particularly the effect expan- sion may have on the Baltic port of Kaliningrad. Although part of Russia, Kaliningrad is separated from the rest of Russia by Lithuania and Poland. Russia has already complained about its decreas- ing lack of access to the port, particularly the uncooperative attitude of the Lithuanian govern- ment.53 News reports suggest that an edgy Russia may have moved tactical nuclear weapons into the enclave.54 If the Lithuanian government were to close access to Kaliningrad in a ﬁt of pique, this would trigger a major crisis between NATO and Russia. Under these circumstances</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">, the loss of an early-warning satellite would be extremely suspi-cious. It is any military’s nature during a crisis to interpret events in their worst-case light.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> For ex- ample, consider the coincidences that occurred in early September 1956, during the extraordinarily tense period in international relations marked by the Suez Crisis and Hungarian uprising.55 On one evening the White House received messages indicating: 1. the Turkish Air Force had gone on alert in response to unidentiﬁed aircraft penetrat- ing its airspace; 2. one hundred Soviet MiG-15s were ﬂying over Syria; 3. a British Canberra bomber had been shot down over Syria, most likely by a MiG; and 4. The Russian ﬂeet was moving through the Dardanelles. Gen. Andrew Goodpaster was reported to have worried that the conﬂuence of events “might trigger off … the NATO operations plan” that called for a nuclear strike on the Soviet Union. Yet, all of these reports were false. The “jets” over Turkey were a ﬂock of swans; the Soviet MiGs over Syria were a smaller, routine escort returning the president from a state visit to Mos- cow; the bomber crashed due to mechanical difﬁculties; and the Soviet ﬂeet was beginning long-scheduled exercises. In an important sense, these were not “coincidences” but rather different manifestations of a common failure – human er- ror resulting from extreme tension of an interna- tional crisis. As one author noted, “The detection and misinterpretation of these events, against the context of world tensions from Hungary and Suez, was the ﬁrst major example of how the size and complexity of worldwide electronic warning systems could, at certain critical times, create momentum of its own.” Perhaps most worrisome, the United States might be blithely unaware of the degree to which the Russians were concerned about its actions and inadvertently escalate a crisis. During the early 1980s, the Soviet Union suffered a major “war scare” during which time its leadership concluded that bilateral relations were rapidly declining. This war scare was driven in part by the rhetoric of the Reagan administration, fortiﬁed by the selective reading of intelligence. During this period, NATO conducted a major command post exercise, Able Archer, that caused some elements of the Soviet military to raise their alert status. American ofﬁcials were stunned to learn, after the fact, that the Kremlin had been acutely nervous about an American ﬁrst strike during this period.56 All of these incidents have a common theme – that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">conﬁdence is often the difference between war and peace. In times of crisis, false alarms can have a momentum of their own</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. As in the second scenario in this monograph, the lesson is that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">commanders rely on the steady ﬂow of reli-able information. When that information ﬂow is disrupted – whether by a deliberate attack or an accident – conﬁdence collapses and the re- sult is panic and escalation. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Introducing ASAT weapons into this mix is all the more dangerous, because such weapons target the elements of the command system that keep leaders aware, informed and in control. As a result, the mere presence of such weapons is corrosive to the conﬁdence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dean </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Babst ‘2</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, retired government research scientist and Coordinator of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation's Accidental Nuclear War Studies Program, February ’02, “Preventing an Accidental Armageddon,” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Available online @ <http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2000/02/00_babst_armageddon.htm></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Although international relations have changed drastically since the end of the Cold War,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> both </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Russia and the U.S. continue to keep the bulk of their nuclear missiles on high-level alert. The U.S. and Russia remain ready to </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">fire a total of more than 5,000 nuclear weapons at each other within half an hour. These warheads</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> if used, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">could destroy humanity</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> including those firing the missiles. A defense that destroys the defender makes no sense. Why then do Russia, the U.S., and other countries spend vast sums each year to maintain such defenses? Since 400 average size strategic nuclear weapons could destroy humanity, most of </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the 5,000 nuclear weapons that Russia and the U.S. have set for hair-trigger release, present the world with its greatest danger -- an enormous overkill,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> the potential for </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">an accidental Armageddon.</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space Weaponization</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Disads-Space Weaponization-1NC]]**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC</span>**</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Huntley, 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">- senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring,[[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">As is well understood, the space policies of the Bush administration were decidedly oriented toward military security concerns and independent action. The 2006 National Space Policy unabashedly proclaimed the U.S. intention to maintain a dominant position in space indefinitely. This policy orientation dismissed multilateral cooperation as impinging on U.S. “freedom of action,” throwing weight instead behind a wide range of technology development initiatives founded on the assumption that deployment of weapons in space was, if not already factual, certainly inevitable.2 U.S. commercial and civil engagement was overshadowed by these security concerns, expressed through the tightening of export control restrictions inhibiting a broad range of technology sharing. Once again, U.S. space policy was subsumed by other national priorities, in this case dominated by military security concerns.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">This background is essential for appreciating how </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">the space policies of the Obama administration are beginning to genuinely break new trails</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The U.S. National Space Policy issued in June 2010 has been widely recognized for its cooperative and multilateraltone</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">, including as explicit near-term goals the expansion of international cooperation on all activities and pursuing international as well as national measures to enhance space stability. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Particularly notable are the document’s emphasis on orienting U.S. “leadership” toward fostering international cooperation</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">, and its references, in its concluding section, to cooperation with other states and non-state actors in the pursuit of national security space objectives.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">Less broadly noticed was this policy’s clarity and coherence in articulating a vision for U.S. space activities on its own terms. The document is organized around core principles, subsidiary goals and implementing guidelines that exceed its predecessors in delineating a longer-term direction for U.S. space policy that is integrated with, rather than derivative of, broader U.S. global aims.4 The policy also was generated and issued far earlier in the tenure of the administration than either of its predecessors, indicating an increased prioritization of attention to space policy at higher levels of policy-making.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">To some degree,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> a turn toward multilateral cooperation in U.S. space policy was to be expected</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">. China’s 2007 anti-satellite weapon (ASAT) test and the 2009 Iridium-Cosmos collision increased awareness of the challenge of space debris and the need for better global information sharing on space situational awareness (SSA).5 Also, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">new budget realitiesand unpromising technological developments have scaled back ambitions in some quarters for solving U.S. space security concernswith new independent capabilities</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">. Finally, the Obama administration has pursued a more cooperative disposition across a wide range of global policy challenges, from Iranian nuclear ambitions to global climate change. But the improved clarity of vision in the 2010 Space Policy suggests that the emphasis on fostering global cooperation on space-related activities is more grounded in deliberate foresight than sailing the prevailing political winds.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The 2011 National Security Space Strategy</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">, released February 4, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">is best interpreted against this background of the Obama administration’s turn toward both greater international space cooperation</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">and greater attention to space policy in general. This first-of-its-kind strategic statement culminates a congressionally mandated space posture review.6 The initial section portraying the strategic environment to which U.S. security policy must be responsive highlights the growing problems of space debris, orbital congestion and coordination among a growing number of space actors — not state-based security threats per se. The Security Space Strategy features the objective of a “stable space environment in which nations exercise shared responsibility.”7 Specific provisions intended to implement this strategy, relevant to the preceding observations, include:8 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">• The strategy presents a full section on “Partnering with Responsible Nations, International Organizations, and Commercial Firms.” This category is not wholly multilateral in the traditional sense, displaying a symbiosis of alliance-building and collective cooperation not always carefully distinguished; i.e., “The United States will lead in building coalitions of like-minded space-faring nations and, where appropriate, work with international institutions to do so.”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">• The strategy intends to “encourage responsible behavior in space and lead by the power of example,” a significant observation given the tendency of U.S. policy-makers (as noted above) not to expect quid pro quo responses to cooperative gestures. Also, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">the strategy states the U.S. “will support development of data standards, best practices, transparency and confidence-building measures, and //norms of behavior for responsible space operations//.”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;"> [italics added] In the context of the section on “Preventing and Deterring Aggression,” the strategy similarly intends to “support diplomatic efforts to promote norms of responsible behavior in space” as well as “pursue international partnerships that encourage potential adversary restraint,” along with other measures.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">This emphasis on norm-building and the role of example suggests a near-term endorsement of the development of “codes of conduct” for space activities</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;"> (such as the recently revised European Union Code of Conduct, discussed below), </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">whether or not such concord leads to more formal arms control arrangements </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">in the longer-term.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">• The Department of Defense is directed to “foster cooperative SSA relationships</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">,” and to “expand provision of </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">safety of flight services to U.S. Government agencies, other nations, and commercial firms.” Greater SSA information sharing has been a key suggestion for fostering international cooperation; the U.S. possesses globally superior SSA capabilities, but restricts the sharing of this information on the basis of national security concerns.9 Hence, this nominal commitment is significant in its own right.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">• </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The strategy commits to reforming export controls.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">“In particular, as new opportunities arise for international collaboration, a revised export control system will better enable the domestic firms competing for these contracts.” As noted above, the oppressive impact of current U.S. export controls not only impinges on U.S. commercial space actors but also epitomizes the high degree to which U.S. policy has subsumed commercial and civil interests to national security concerns. The strategy appears to acknowledge this connection and commit to remedy it.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">• The most assertive passages of the statement are moderated with community-building intent. For example, the strategy’s section on “Preventing and Deterring Aggression” concludes that the U.S. “will retain the right and capabilities to respond in self-defense, should deterrence fail,” but immediately adds that the U.S. “will use force in a manner that is consistent with longstanding principles of international law, treaties to which the United States is a party, and the inherent right of self defense.”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">• The concluding and most conflict-oriented section of the strategy opens by noting that “some actors may still believe counterspace actions could provide military advantage.” Counterspace capabilities, unarticulated in the document, include ASATs, ground-based directed energy weapons and satellite transmission jamming. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy Gregory Schulte explained at the strategy’s rollout that China is a principal concern in this regard, but so is the proliferation of these technologies: “If Ethiopia can jam a commercial satellite, you have to worry what others can do.”10 This section of the strategy does not, however, call for maintaining options to develop complementary space conflict capabilities.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">Rather, the strategy asserts that the U.S. “must be prepared to ‘fight through’ a degraded environment,” and identifies “resilience” and “space protection” as the key criteria.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">The preceding survey of elements of the 2011 National Security Space Strategy is deliberately selective, highlighting those elements expressing consistency with the 2010 National Space Policy’s bend toward fostering greater international collaboration. Perhaps </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">as striking </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">as the prevalence of such passages, however, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">is the absence of expressed intention — even couched in hedging language — to sustain or expand</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;"> the kind of </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">independent space-based military capabilities</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;"> that were the centerpiece of the prior administration’s aims (if not its accomplishments). Again, to some extent this turn in tone is overdetermined by extenuating global circumstances. But one must still be struck by the degree to which developments such as the Chinese ASAT test have not ignited the kind of response one might have anticipated only a few short years after Donald Rumsfeld’s notorious warning of a “space Pearl Harbor.”11 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The most immediate significance of the National Security Space Strategy is likely the signals its sends concerning U.S. policy toward the recently revised European Union Code of Conduct</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">.12 The strategy did not explicitly endorse this EU initiative, but Mr. Schulte, at the February 4 presentation of the strategy, highlighted the initiative “as a potential way” to promote “transparency and confidence-building measures, which tend to be voluntary as opposed to legally binding.” A week earlier, Rose Gottemoeller, Assistant Secretary of State for Arms Control, Verification and Compliance, stated at the Conference on Disarmament that the administration was nearing a decision on whether the U.S. would sign on to the code, and what modifications might be required in order to do so.13 As U.S. interest in the Code of Conduct has increased, debates over its provisions and its relationship to the Outer Space Treaty have intensified. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">These policy movements toward multilateral engagement and commitment to behavioral standards (even if non-binding) mark a sharp departure from the stiff resistance tocurtailing U.S. “freedom of action” in the previous administration</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">, and have accordingly generated resistance from congressional opponents on just those terms. Prior to the release of the National Security Space Strategy, a group of 37 Republican senators led by Arizona Senator Jon Kyl issued a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton expressing concern over a potential multilateral commitment that might limit development and/or deployment of space-based missile defense interceptors and ASAT-defeating systems.14 Critics also decried the strategy’s emphasis on “the old fallacious assumption that the power of example will prevent adversaries from doing the United States harm,” and endorsed maintaining the goal of U.S. retention of a “dominant position in military and intelligence space capabilities.”15 In fact, the administration’s warming toward normative commitments in general — and the EU Code of Conduct in particular — are in part intended to forestall pressure for more formal and binding measures that would definitively cut off the “hedge” of unilateral U.S. weapons development options.16 The balance of U.S. debate may have shifted toward greater international cooperation, but the terms of the debate remain the same.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">In sum, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">the National Security Space Strategy appears to mark not only a swing in U.S. policy toward greater global engagement but also,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">and more importantly, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">a step toward greater long-term coherence in thinking concerning the core goals of U.S. space activities</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">. Even supporters of the general directions of the strategy noted its more-than-expected breadth of thought.17 But if this reading is sound, the strategy is still but one step on a long road, and ongoing debates over the role of U.S. space policy vis-à-vis broader national security interests will insure that road is bumpy. Suggesting such limitations, Mr. Schulte acknowledged that the classified version of the strategy is only four pages longer than the released version, indicating that more specific guidelines for military implementation of the strategy remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">No space weaponization now</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Denmark 2010 - Fellow with the Center for a New American Security</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;"> [By Abraham M. and Dr. James Mulvenon CNAS, Jan, Contested Commons: The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS%20Contested]] %20Commons%20Capstone_0.pdf Accessed Jun 21]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space’s militarization</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;"> — its use as a medium to support military operations — </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">has existed for more than four decades</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">. Since the height of the Cold War, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">satellites have monitored nuclear tests and other military activities and facilitated global communications, mapping, and other activities with both military and scientific purposes. Yet space has yet to be weaponized, in that it is not yet a theater for warfare or for the placement of arms, and it remains a global commons open to any actor with the means to access it</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">. 36 To a large degree, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">this openness can be credited to a robust set of international agreements that effectively codify space as a global commons.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">When space first became accessible to humanity in the 1950s, the United States proposed an agreement establishing orbits as common spaces beyond traditional conceptions of sovereignty. The Soviet Union initially disagreed, arguing that its sovereign claim over its territorial air space extended to orbit and beyond. Once Moscow saw the benefit of sending satellites into orbit to spy on the West, its conceptions of its sovereign interests changed, and the USSR agreed to establish space as, in effect, a global commons. Although several arms-control agreements helped to solidify space as a commons, the most comprehensive existing international agreement on the use of space is the 1967 Outer Space Treaty. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">It defines space as an area beyond claims of state sovereignty, but it has a limited focus on military matters — beyond banning weapons of mass destruction in orbit or on any celestial body, and prohibiting the use of celestial bodies for military bases or the testing of weapons. U.S. policy has consistently embraced space as a global commons</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;"> “by all nations for peaceful purposes and for the benefit of all humanity.” 37 Yet the United States has also defended space as a legitimate medium for defense and intelligence activities. The 2006 National Space Policy reinforced an American commitment to the “exploration and use of outer space by all nations for peaceful purposes, and for the benefit of all humanity,” rejected claims of national sovereignty, and reaffirmed the “rights of passage through and operations in space without interference.” On the issue of military objectives, it was quite clear, asserting: The United States considers space capabilities — including the ground and space segments and supporting links — vital to its national interests. Consistent with this policy, the United States will: preserve its rights, capabilities, and freedom of action in space; dissuade or deter others from either impeding those rights or developing the capabilities intended to do so; take those actions necessary to protect its space capabilities; respond to interference; and deny, if necessary, adversaries the use of space capabilities hostile to U.S. national interests. 38</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Insert Link</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">This means you violate the OST </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">Presscore 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (“US launches a first strike military spacecraft - the X-37B,” 4/28/10, PressCore, [[http://presscore.ca/nbg/index.php?entry=entry100428-214754]] DA: 6/22/11)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">On the 19th of that month the General Assembly approved by acclamation a resolution commending </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">the Treat</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif;">y. It was opened for signature at Washington, London, and Moscow on January 27, 1967. On April 25 the Senate gave unanimous consent to its ratification, and the Treaty entered into force on October 10, 1967. The substance of the arms control provisions is in Article IV. This article restricts activities in two ways: First , it </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">contains an undertaking not to place in orbit around the Earth, install on the moon or any other celestial body, or otherwise station in outer space, nuclear or any other weapons of mass destruction</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">. Second , </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">it limits the use of the moon and other celestial bodies exclusively to peaceful purposesand expressly prohibits their usefor establishing militarybases, installation, or fortifications; testing weapons of any kind; or conducting military maneuvers</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">U.S. violation of the OST leads to Treaty collpase</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">Hickman and Dolman 2</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">(John Hickman is an associate professor in the Department of Government and International Studies at Berry College in Mt. Berry, Georgia. He has written many papers dealing with space policy and Everett Dolman, Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 2002 (“Resurrecting the Space Age: A State–Centered Commentary on the Outer Space Regime,” Comparative Strategy: Volume 21, Number 1 (2002), Page 20, Available Online to subscribing institutions at [[http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/014959302317350855]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">Thus a state party need merely announce its intention to withdraw and then wait one year. Withdrawal of a single state party to the treaty, however, would not necessarily terminate the treaty between the other state parties. Yet, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">the decision of an important state not to be bound by a regime</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">–creating treaty obviously </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">endangers the entire treaty</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">The decision of the United States </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">or </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">China to withdraw from the OST would have far greater implications for the survival of the international space regime than the same decision by Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, or Papua New Guinea</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">—the equality of states under international law remains nothing more than a useful fiction. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">For the OST to remain good international law, it must be accepted as such by the major space faring states of the 21st Century</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">: the United States, Russia, the European Union, Japan, and China. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">One defection from the regime by a member of this group would no doubt lead to its effective collapse, as the remaining space faring states are unlikely to use the kind of coercion necessary to enforce the regime</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">. A more likely response to such a defection is a scramble to make similar claims to sovereignty, based on historical precedent and effective occupation. Similar rushes to stake claims for territory sovereignty in other celestial bodies might follow.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">OST is the last defense against space weaponization</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">Quinn 08</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (J.D./M.B.A. Candidate 2010, University of Minnesota Law School and Carlson School of Management, Summer, LexisNexis Acedemic, “The New Age of Space Law: The Outer Space Treaty and the Weaponization of Space,”[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/]]?)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">The possibility of space becoming another forum for warfare has long been a fear of the international community. Although many treaties have addressed weapons in space, space actors have been testing the limits of these treaties more and more frequently. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">The U</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">nited </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">St</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">ates </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">has stated that space warfare is inevitable. This possibility isespecially troubling because the global economy depends heavily on outer space. National defense, global communications, an ever growing commercial space industry, international flights, and the internet all depend on satellites orbiting in outer space. These satellites make obvious first targets for any space arms race. The O</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">uter </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">S</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">pace</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">T</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">reaty i</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">s the last defense against weaponization of space, making it one of the most crucial treaties at this time</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">. In light of its importance, the Outer Space Treaty deserves a critical review. Part I of this Note discusses the evolution of the current body of space law, Part II argues that the current body of space law is inadequate, and Part III presents principles necessary in any international instrument on space law that hopes to successfully delay the introduction of weapons to space.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extinction and turns the case </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Mitchell, et al 01</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July,[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence, but this rationale glosses over the tendency that '… the presence of space weapons…will result in the increased likelihood of their use'.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34 The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent 'dual capability' of spaceborne weapon components. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such interceptors can also be used as orbiting 'Death Stars', capable of sending munitions hurtling through the Earth's atmosphere. The dizzying speed of space warfare would introduce intense 'use or lose' pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating incentives to rig orbiting Death Stars with automated 'hair trigger' devices. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, by taking the decision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious seeds of accidental conflict. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed 'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance. According to Perrow, this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'.36</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0d0d0d; font-family: georgia,serif;">Deployment of space weapons with pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles would likely make war itself inevitable, given the susceptibility of such systems to 'normal accidents'. It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, 'even a tiny projectile reentering from space strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than would be done by a nuclear weapon of the same size!'. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38 Given this unique potential for destruction, it is not hard to imagine that any nation subjected to space weapon attack would retaliate with maximum force, including use of nuclear, biological, and/or chemical weapons. An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0d0d0d; font-family: georgia,serif;">China Bashing</span>=== 

Boehner blocking passage

Hughes 11-10-11 (Siobhan, staff writer for the Wall Street Journal, “US Rep Brooks Challenges House Speaker On China Currency Policy” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20111110-715673.html]])

A spokesman for the House Speaker didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. Boehner has refused to allow a vote on China currency legislation, saying it would trigger a trade war. That makes currency legislation one instance in which he is not willing to let the House work its will. A majority of House lawmakers support currency legislation. The Senate has already cleared the currency bill. So far, Boehner has had the upper hand. House Republicans have fallen into line and declined to sign off on a discharge petition--a procedure to override Boehner and force the speaker's hand. And the Club for Growth, a business-oriented group, has rushed out to quell any dissent among the rank and file.



House Republicans are falling in line with Boehner on China but backlash causes them to override him

Hughes, 10/6

Siobhan Hughes, Dow Jones Newswire, 10/6/11, UPDATE:On Currency Bill, Rank-And-File Republicans Buck GOP Leaders , online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20111006-713089.html



The U.S. Senate took another vote Thursday in favor of a measure to address concerns that China undervalues its currency, a move that is so far largely symbolic because the House Republican leader calls the legislation "dangerous" and won't schedule a vote on it. The wild card is that some 61 House Republican lawmakers have signed on to a similar House currency bill, bringing to 226 the legislation's supporters, more than enough to win passage in the House.

"We continue to think the bill will probably not pass but the bill's prospects have improved and we do not think the market has yet taken notice," Brian Gardner, the senior vice president of Washington research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods said in a research note on Tuesday.

The growing support for currency legislation was significant enough that the conservative Club for Growth late Wednesday alerted lawmakers that it would be watching closely a parallel effort to force a vote on currency legislation. The group said it would be factoring in whether members signed off on a so-called discharge petition, which rank-and-file lawmakers can use to override leadership and bring legislation up for a floor vote as long as they can gather support from a majority of the chamber. It is the first time the group has ever treated a signature on a discharge position as a key vote.

House Republican leaders have told Republican lawmakers not to sign the discharge petition, a GOP aide said, and Republicans are falling into line. House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (R., Ky.) signed off on the discharge petition on Monday but one day later withdrew his name. Rep. Joe Pitts (R., Pa.) is sponsoring the currency legislation but won't be signing the discharge petition, his spokesman said.



Spending measures cause the rank-and-file to backlash against party leadership

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Steinhauer 9/22</span>

Jennifer Steinhauer, NY Times, 9/22/11, For Restless Lawmakers, Accord Proves Elusive, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/23/us/politics/house-republicans-regroup-after-defeat-of-spending-bill.html|www.nytimes.com/2011/09/23/us/politics/house-republicans-regroup-after-defeat-of-spending-bill.html]]</span>



But this week’s nasty showdown over a short-term spending bill demonstrates that the economy may be too weak, lawmakers too restless and the 2012 election too close for even a brief period of bipartisan comity.

A small but determined group of conservative Republicans on Wednesday again defied their leaders and brought down a bill to keep the federal lights on after Sept. 30 because it did not meet their demands to make deeper spending cuts.

House Democrats fed up by the Republicans’ past refusal to compromise and outraged over the handling of disaster aid (something some Republicans also did not like) responded with their own hard-line tactics, refusing to supply Republican leaders with the votes they needed to pass the must-pass measure, leaving the government on the brink of yet another shutdown.

At the same time, the new deficit reduction committee has begun its deliberations with a deepening sentiment inside and outside of Congress that it faces a formidable challenge in meeting its goal of finding $1.2 trillion or more in deficit reduction that could satisfy both parties and President Obama.

Republican leaders, both in Congress and on the presidential campaign, are engaging in the harshest criticism of the Federal Reserve in a generation, with some Republican leaders writing a letter to complain that the Fed’s efforts were potentially harming the economy, and some Democrats in the House arguing, in turn, that the Fed is not doing enough to aid a fiscal reboot.

Further, Mr. Obama has adopted a newly combative tone that suggests that he too has grown weary of past efforts to compromise, an aggressive approach that his party on Capitol Hill seems eager to emulate.

The picture coming out of Washington cannot be building confidence in the minds of the country’s voters, consumers and business operators even as the economy teeters.

“It’s safe to conclude that few Americans, let alone people observing from abroad, have any confidence in the nation’s government institutions to resolve the pressing issues at hand,” said Julian E. Zelizer, a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton. “If Congress and the president have trouble dealing with routine decisions, it is safe to assume that any exceptional challenge will turn into a political firestorm.”

On Thursday stocks fell in Europe and on Wall Street, where equities were down more than 3 percent at the markets’ close, even after the Federal Reserve’s announcement Wednesday of a plan to reduce borrowing costs for businesses and consumers.

The new Congressional conflict over a relatively small sum of money and policy differences underscores that for all of the Democrats’ acquiescences this summer to Republican demands — and Republican desires to portray themselves as warmer and fuzzier before voters — what divides the two parties on the Hill is far deeper than either’s ability to inspire national confidence.

“What people can’t deal with is this week-by-week jerking around,” said Representative Jim McDermott, a Democrat from Washington. “It is absolutely impossible for businesses to do any planning when you don’t know if you’ll have the money to turn the lights on next week.”

House Speaker John A. Boehner on Thursday acknowledged the difficulty he has managing his own rank and file. “At the end of the day, every member has an obligation to represent their constituents,” he told reporters. “I’m going to respect that right of our members to do that.”



China currency bill causes a trade war, economic collapse, and US-China war

Martin, 10/7

Patrick Martin, WSWS, 10/7/11, Anti-China rhetoric raises threat of war, www.wsws.org/articles/2011/oct2011/pers-o07.shtml



The White House, together with much of corporate America, sees the value in using anti-China demagogy to divert popular anger over the economic crisis away from Wall Street and towards a foreign scapegoat. But the American financial aristocracy recognizes that escalating from verbal brickbats to direct action against China would undermine the global trading system, exacerbate the world economic and financial crisis, and, perhaps most importantly from the standpoint of American imperialism, alienate its chief creditor.

If such legislation were adopted, trade war with China would do nothing to reverse the decline of American manufacturing and the living standards of American workers, which is the product of the global crisis of the capitalist system, not the policies of a single country. The shock effects on the world economy would actually destroy jobs, not create them.

Even more dangerously, such an action would be a dramatic step towards outright military conflict with China, a rising military as well as economic power, which represents a threat to the longstanding domination of American imperialism in the Asian-Pacific region.

But the fact that US trade war measures contain such dangers does not rule out their implementation. The idea that “rational” considerations will prevail ignores the lessons of history. After all, numerous arguments were advanced prior to World War I that Germany and Britain would never go to war because of their close economic ties.





China conflict goes nuclear

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glaser</span>, Professor of Political Science and International Affairs – George Washington University, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘11</span>

(Charles, “Will China’s Rise Lead to War?” //Foreign Affairs// Vol. 9 Iss. 2, March/April)



THE PROSPECTS for avoiding intense military competition and war may be good, but growth in China's power may nevertheless require some changes in U.S. foreign policy that Washington will find disagreeable--particularly regarding Taiwan. Although it lost control of Taiwan during the Chinese Civil War more than six decades ago, China still considers Taiwan to be part of its homeland, and unification remains a key political goal for Beijing. China has made clear that it will use force if Taiwan declares independence, and much of China's conventional military buildup has been dedicated to increasing its ability to coerce Taiwan and reducing the United States' ability to intervene. Because China places such high value on Taiwan and because the United States and China--whatever they might formally agree to--have such different attitudes regarding the legitimacy of the status quo, the issue poses special dangers and challenges for the U.S.-Chinese relationship, placing it in a different category than Japan or South Korea.

A crisis over Taiwan could fairly easily escalate to nuclear war, because each step along the way might well seem rational to the actors involved. Current U.S. policy is designed to reduce the probability that Taiwan will declare independence and to make clear that the United States will not come to Taiwan's aid if it does. Nevertheless, the United States would find itself under pressure to protect Taiwan against any sort of attack, no matter how it originated. Given the different interests and perceptions of the various parties and the limited control Washington has over Taipei's behavior, a crisis could unfold in which the United States found itself following events rather than leading them.

Such dangers have been around for decades, but ongoing improvements in China's military capabilities may make Beijing more willing to escalate a Taiwan crisis. In addition to its improved conventional capabilities, China is modernizing its nuclear forces to increase their ability to survive and retaliate following a large-scale U.S. attack. Standard deterrence theory holds that Washington's current ability to destroy most or all of China's nuclear force enhances its bargaining position. China's nuclear modernization might remove that check on Chinese action, leading Beijing to behave more boldly in future crises than it has in past ones. A U.S. attempt to preserve its ability to defend Taiwan, meanwhile, could fuel a conventional and nuclear arms race. Enhancements to U.S. offensive targeting capabilities and strategic ballistic missile defenses might be interpreted by China as a signal of malign U.S. motives, leading to further Chinese military efforts and a general poisoning of U.S.-Chinese relations.




==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0d0d0d; font-family: georgia,serif;">Kritiks</span>== 
===<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: georgia,serif;">Astropolitics</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">1nc</span>**==== 
**First, the affirmative’s discourse of space as a solution to apocalyptic threats to earth is trojan horse for the securitization of the heavens—their benign rhetoric will become a mask for militarism**
<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Columba </span>//Peoples, 2010//<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">, School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies, University of Bristol, The growing ‘securitization’ of outer space , Space Policy 26 (2010) 205-208</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Although it may feel like it at times, the militarization/weaponization debate is not simply a case of intellectual hair-splitting. It matters in all sorts of ways in terms of the existing framework of space law (and any revisions to it), to the way we categorize pro- gramme development and specific technologies, and the way that the actions of space powers are analysed and judged. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> potential </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">problem with the eternal return of the militarization/weaponization debate</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, however, is </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">that it is in some ways detached from the broader context of understandings of ‘space security’</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that analysis of space law and policy has to take account of. In particular, the issue of </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">space arms control is further complicated by what might be termed the ‘securitization’</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of outer space, which captures a range of dynamics that fall beyond the boundaries of the militarization/ weaponization debate. 2. Securitization - a new framework for analysis of space policy? What, then, is ‘securitization’, and why should it be regarded as anything other than another ‘-ation’ to be added to the pot? </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Recent decades have seen</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> a rapid and </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">extensive ‘broadening’ of the contexts in which the concept of security is applied and in the range of issues it is seen to cover. From a relatively circumscribed historical association with military threats</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and issues, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the concept of security is increasingly used in reference to ‘non-traditional’ issues, such as</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> migration and </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">environmental degradation</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">In both policy and academic discourse non-military issues are now frequently referred to as ‘security’ issues by policy makers. Space policy has been far from immune from this wider trend. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Such </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">moves to widen the spectrum of security issues can be classified as</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> attempts at ‘</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">securitization’</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, a term coined by the group of scholars within security studies commonly referred to as the ‘CopenhagenSchool’.2 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Securitization is</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, in broad terms, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the process through which a non-military issue comes to be seen as an issue of security. When an issue comes to be treated as an issue of national security, it is justifiable to use exceptional political measures to deal with it. It is ‘securitized’</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">: that is, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">it is treated with the same degree of urgency as military threats tothe very existence of a state</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (as traditionally captured in the concept of ‘national security’), </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">or</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> what the Copenhagen School labels ‘</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">existential threats’. At its most fundamental the idea of national security assumes that the state must be protected</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">therefore it is necessary for the state to maintain standing armies, weapons production and procurement, intelligence agencies, and so on</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">One of the ways we can distinguish an existential threat</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, then, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">is by the level of response it generates. When an issue or development is successfully presented as an existential threat, it legitimises the use of exceptional political </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">measures. A classic military example in inter- national relations </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">is</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> a state’s right to </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">self-defence</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. If a state is </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">under attack, it claims the legitimate use of extraordinary measures</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that go beyond normal day-to-day politics: the declaration of a state of emergency or </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">martial law</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, the </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">rationing</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of certain goods and services, closure of roads and schools, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">and so on</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Commonly</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, then, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the identification of existential threats sets in chain a number of effects that characterize the specific quality of security problems: urgency - the issue takes priority; and extraordinary measures - authorities claim powers that they would not otherwise have, or curtail rights and liberties that might otherwise apply</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In sh</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">ort, securitization is a style of argumentation used in attempts to legitimate the application of extraordinary measures by positioning an issue as equivalent to a threat to national security as it is more traditionally understood. By attempting to portray an issue as a security issue, a securitizing move is made; that is, a move to class an issue in the same category as national defence. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">3. The EU as a securitizing actor The reasoning behind this introduction of securitization theory here into debates on space policy is that </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the militarization/weaponization debate only partially captures (at best) the multiple ways in which outer space is being linked to security in the space policy discourses</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of leading states and international organizations - </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">ways that encompass not only ‘traditional’ military securitybut also the security of economic, environ-mental, scientific and technical infrastructures</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. As is discussed below, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">space policy is one of the areas where we have seen a rapid proliferation of ‘securitizing moves’ that identify space as crucial to national security and survival in a variety of ways.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Even if some of these moves might be argued to be more successful than others in terms of their actual political effects, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the sheer prevalence of attempted securitization within space policy provides a rationale for revisiting the question of whether militarization/weaponization is a sufficient way of framing the analysis of space policy in relation to security. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">It is worth emphasising that at a general level </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the ‘securitization of outer space’ is</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, in itself,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> not a novel phenomenon</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> or development. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The extent to which ostensibly civil uses of outer space have been driven by, and have overlapped with, national security functions historically-or, as in the case of the space race between the USA and USSR, have acted as a surrogate for direct military engagement-is well documented.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Similarly the characterization of the Sputnik launch in 1957 as placing the USA ‘in the greatest danger in its history’ suggests that the representation of space technologies as potential ‘existential threats’ is not entirely new either.3 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Of significance, though, is the intensification, expansion and entrenchment of ‘securitizing moves’ as a feature of contemporary space policies. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">In this respect the European Union stands out as a ‘securitizing actor’ par excellence, with an ever-increasing range of activities deemed as issues of space security that demand new and intensified levels of regional cooperation. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The President of the EU, José Manuel Barroso, has</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, in this vein, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">argued that Europe</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> needs ‘more security in and from space’, defining this not only in ways that encompass traditional fears of attacks on space assets as an ‘existential threat’, but also by including a range of other issues: Our space assets and infrastructure are indispensable for our economy and security and we need to protect them. The EU should develop an independent capacity to monitor satellites and debris orbiting the Earth and the space environment, and tackle possible hazards. We </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">should also exploit the potential of space infrastructure (already available</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, for example, t</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">hrough GMES [Global Monitoring for Environment and Security]) to protect our citizens</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and our ground infrastructure </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">against natural and manmade hazards</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and to be at the service of European Security and Defence Policy goals. These capacities should be developed in partnership with Member States. Here </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">security is understood in a more expansive and comprehensive sense than the traditional conception of military security</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, in a manner that parallels the ‘broad’ understanding of security in EU policy discourse more generally. Thus, as well as citing the role of space in European Defence, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the existential threats identified here also include the prospects of environmental disaster and economic meltdown</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Similarly, the European Space Agency has argued that security needs are ‘connected to [.] technological progress’, and ‘Space systems are a fundamental aspect of “technological security”: they offer extremely versatile solutions in a global, international dimension.’5 Both these arguments complement a final ‘security’ function, which is that space can become a catalyst of further European integration, thus preserving the political security of the Union: ‘Security applications provided by space technologies are a linchpin of European policy. But Space security goes far beyond this utilization logic: Space technologies directly contribute to the building of an EU political project.’6 4. The wider context Although securitization is a prevalent feature of EU space policy discourse, it is by no means Europe’s sole preserve. In its overview of global space policies, the Space Security Index report Space Security 2009 explicitly noted that ‘National space policies consistently emphasize international cooperation and the peaceful uses of outer space’, but equally that there is a ‘Growing focus within national policies on the security uses of outer space’. As well as developments in EU space policy, the report notes that national security has become a central principle of China’s emerging space programme, and that France’s White Paper on Defence and National Security calls for an overhaul of its national space strategy.7 Another prominent instance in this regard is Japan’s 2008 ‘Basic Law of Space Activities’, the first significant alteration to the Japanese space policy framework established in 1969. Whereas the latter studiously adhered to the ‘peaceful purposes’ of the Outer Space Treaty (interpreting this strictly to mean ‘non-military’ purposes), the 2008 framework has lifted the previous ban on military space activities by citing the importance of ‘national security’, thus potentially allowing a greater space role for Japan’s Ministry of Defence in this regard. The move attracted controversy given Japan’s ‘Peaceful Constitution’8 and the strict interpretation of ‘peaceful purposes’ in the 1969 framework. Japan has used ‘multi-purpose’ Information Gathering Satellites (IGS) for tasks such as monitoring North Korean missile programmes long prior to 2008 but, as Kazuto Suzuki notes, ‘It was [previously] difficult even to mention the term “dual-use” because that would imply the possibility of participation of the MoD.’9 Post-2008 Japan’s space budget has been weighted more heavily towards military research and the use of outer space for defensive purposes. An attempt to articulate a broader understanding of security, however, has been used to ‘soften’ the military implications of the new framework. Although many commentators suspect the primacy of concerns about North Korea (and China), it is notable that the 2008 framework alludes to crisis management, disaster monitoring and potential involvement in overseas peacekeeping as key facets of this understanding of the security functions of Japanese satellites.10 Even </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">US space policy appears to have moved towards securitization of an ever greater range of issues</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that include - but also extend well beyond - a narrow military definition of security. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The US National Space Policy of 2006 identified US military capabilities as ‘critically dependent upon space capabilities’, but equally cited space capabilities as ‘critical’ to ‘.a wide range of civil, commercial, and national security users’, thus assuming wider security implications of space as well as its more direct military uses.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">11 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">This stated centrality of space to both military and civilian infrastructures was subsequently used to justify the exceptional, unilateralist stance taken by</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the George W.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> Bush</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> administration towards any proposals for new legal regimes on outer space or restrictions on military research and development. Although the National Space Policy of 2010 is diametrically opposed in its attitude towards international cooperation, space law and arms control (‘The United States will consider proposals and concepts for arms control measures if they are equitable, effectively verifiable, and enhance the national security of the United States and its allies’12),</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> the Obama administration</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> nevertheless </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">shares with its predecessor the assumption that space security is more than just military, as is exemplified in its National Security Strategy: </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Across the globe, we must work in concert with allies and partners to optimize the use of shared sea, air, and space domains. These shared areas, which exist outside exclusive national jurisdictions, are the connective tissue around the globe upon which all nations’ security and prosperity depend. The United States will continue to help safeguard access, promote security, and ensure the sustainable use of resources in these domains.13 5. Space securitization -promise or peril? </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Attempts at securitization are</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> thus </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">a rapidly growing feature of contemporary space policy discourse</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Merely making this observation, however, leaves aside the question of whether such securitizing moves should be encouraged or avoided by policy makers and analysts. On </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the one hand, the idea of space as a key part of the ‘connective tissue’ that binds global security might seem an attractive proposition to those seeking to shift the emphasis away from militaristic national concerns. In this light</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">attempts to securitize environmental monitoring, critical infrastructure and economic prosperityunder the rubric of space security might be welcomed as the basis for a more multilateral, cooperative global approach</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">On the other hand</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">there is a legitimate concern that the securitization of space policy effectively acts as a Trojan horse for the expansion of national-military interests</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. One previous viewpoint contributor contends in relation to EU space policy that ‘.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Europe’s “security research” has slowly paved the way for the introduction of much more controversial “military research” within the European domain</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">’14, and Manriquez suspects that, with Japan’s space law revision, ‘the nation inches [further] towards re-militarization with the likely opening of space for military use.’15 Similarly, the new space policy of </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the Obama administration appeals simultaneously to an expansive definition of global security and a more narrow, traditional focus on the national-military interest of the USA included within this. All of this points to the importance of taking the securitization of space policy seriously as a key element of debates on space security. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Focusing on militarization and weaponization alone simply isn’t sufficient.</span>

**{Insert Specific Link}**
=== === 
**And, securitization commits itself to an ontological ordering of not only conflict and war, but life itself—this drive guarantees a reproduction of the mass graves and nuclear holocausts of the 20th century**
<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Anthony </span>//Burke, 2007//<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">, senior lecturer at University of New South Whales, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”, theory & Event, 10, 2</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">By itself, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">such an account of the nationalist ontology of war and security provides only a general insight into the perseverance of military violence as a core element of politics. It does not explain why so many policymakers think military violence works. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">As I argued earlier, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">such an ontology is married to a more rationalistic form of strategic thought that claims to link violent means to political ends predictably and controllably</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, and which, by doing so, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">combines military action and national purposes into a common -</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">- and thoroughly modern -- </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">horizon of certainty</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Given Hegel's desire to decisively distil and control the dynamic potentials of modernity in thought, it is helpful to focus on the modernity of this ontology -- one that is modern in its adherence to modern scientific models of truth, reality and technological progress, and in its insistence on imposing images of scientific truth from the physical sciences (such as mathematics and physics) onto human behaviour, politics and society. For example, the military theorist and historian Martin van Creveld has argued that </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">one of the reasons Clausewitz was so influential was that his 'ideas seemed to have chimed in with the rationalistic, scientific, and technological outlook associated with the industrial revolution'</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.54</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Set into this epistemological matrix, modern politics and government engages in a sweeping project of mastery and control in which all of the world's resources -- mineral, animal, physical, human -- are made part of a machinic process of which war and violence are viewed as normal features</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">These are the deeper claims and implications of Clausewitzian strategic reason.One of the most revealing contemporary examples comes from</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the writings (and actions) of Henry </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Kissinger</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, a Harvard professor and later U.S. National Security Adviser and Secretary of State. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">He wrote</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> during the Vietnam war that after 1945 U.S. foreign policy was based 'on the assumption that technology plus managerial skills gave us the ability to reshape the international system and to bring about domestic transformations in emerging countries'. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">This 'scientific revolution' had 'for all practical purposes, removed technical limits from the exercise of power in foreign policy'.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">55</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Kissinger's conviction was based </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">not merely in his pride in the vast military and bureaucratic apparatus of the United States, but </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">in a particular epistemology</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (theory of knowledge). </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Kissinger asserted that the West is 'deeply committed to the notion that the real world is external to the observer, that knowledge consists of recording and classifying data -- the more accurately the better'.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> This, he claimed, has since the Renaissance set the West apart from an 'undeveloped' world that contains 'cultures that have escaped the early impact of Newtonian thinking' and remain wedded to the 'essentially pre-Newtonian view that the real world is almost entirely internal to the observer'.56  At the same time, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Kissinger's hubris and hunger for control was beset by a corrosive anxiety</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">: </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">that, in an era of nuclear weapons proliferation and constant military modernisation, of geopolitical stalemate in Vietnam, and the emergence and militancy of new post-colonial states, order and mastery were harder to define and impose.He worried over the way 'military bipolarity' between the superpowers had 'encouraged political multipolarity', which 'does not guarantee stability</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Rigidity is diminished, but so is //manageability//...equilibrium is difficult to achieve among states widely divergent in values, goals, expectations and previous experience' (emphasis added). </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">He mourned that 'the greatest need of the contemporary international system is an agreed concept of order'.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">57</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> Here were the driving obsessions of the modern rational statesman based around a hunger for stasis and certainty that would entrench U.S. hegemony: For the two decades after 1945, our international activities were based on the assumption that technology plus managerial skills gave us the ability to reshape the international system and to bring about domestic transformations in "emerging countries".</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> This direct "operational" concept of international order has proved too simple. Political multipolarity makes it impossible to impose an American design. Our deepest challenge will be to evoke the creativity of a pluralistic world, to base order on political multipolarity even though overwhelming military strength will remain with the two superpowers.58</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Kissinger's statement revealed that such cravings for order and certainty continually confront chaos, resistance and uncertainty: clay that won't be worked, flesh that will not yield, enemies that refuse to surrender</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">This is one of the most powerful lessons of the Indochina wars, which were to continue in a phenomenally destructive fashion for six years after Kissinger wrote these words.Yet</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> as his sinister, Orwellian exhortation to 'evoke the creativity of a pluralistic world' demonstrated, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Kissinger's hubris was undiminished.This is a vicious, historic irony: a desire to control nature, technology, society and human beings that is continually frustrated, but never abandoned or rethought.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> By 1968 U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">McNamara, the rationalist policymaker par excellence, had already decided that U.S. power and technology could not prevail in Vietnam;</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Nixon </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">and Kissinger's refusal to accept this conclusion</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, to abandon their Cartesian illusions, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">was to condemn hundreds of thousands more to die</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in Indochina and the people of Cambodia to two more decades of horror and misery.59</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">In 2003 there would be a powerful sense of déja vu as another</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Republican </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Administration crowned more than decade of failed and destructive policy on Iraq </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">with a deeply controversial and divisive war to remove Saddam Hussein from power. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">In this struggle with the lessons of Vietnam, revolutionary resistance, and rapid geopolitical transformation, we are witness to an enduring political and cultural theme: of a craving for order, control and certainty in the face of continual uncertainty.Closely related</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> to this anxiety </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">was the way that Kissinger's thinking --</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and that of McNamara and earlier imperialists like the British Governor of Egypt Cromer -- </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">was embedded in instrumental images of technology and the machine: the machine as both a tool of power and an image of social and political order</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. In his essay 'The Government of Subject Races' Cromer envisaged effective imperial rule -- over numerous societies and billions of human beings -- as best achieved by a central authority working 'to ensure the harmonious working of the different parts of the machine'.60</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Kissinger analogously invoked the virtues of 'equilibrium', 'manageability' and 'stability' yet, writing some six decades later, was anxious that technological progress no longer brought untroubled control: the Westernising 'spread of technology and its associated rationality...does not inevitably produce a similar concept of reality'.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">61</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> We sense the rational policymaker's frustrated desire</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">: </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the world is supposed to work like a machine, ordered by a form of power and governmental reason which deploys machines and whose desires and processes are meant to run along ordered, rational lines like a machine.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Kissinger's desire was little different from that of </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Cromer </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">who, wrote Edward Said: ...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">envisions a seat of power in the West and radiating out from it towards the East a great embracing machine, sustaining the central authority yet commanded by it. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">What the machine's branches feed into it from the East -- human material, material wealth, knowledge, what have you -- is processed by the machine, then converted into more power...the immediate translation of mere Oriental matter into useful substance.62</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">This desire for order in the shadow of chaos and uncertainty -- the constant war with an intractable and volatile matter -- has deep roots in modern thought, andwas a major impetus to the development of technological reason and its supporting theories of knowledge.As Kissinger's claims about the West's Newtonian desire for the 'accurate' gathering and classification of 'data' suggest, modern strategy, foreign policy and Realpolitik have been thrust deep into the apparently stable soil of natural science, in the hope of finding immovable and unchallengeable roots there</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. While this process has origins in ancient Judaic and Greek thought, it crystallised in philosophical terms most powerfully during and after the Renaissance. The key figures in this process were Francis Bacon, Galileo, Isaac Newton, and René Descartes, who all combined a hunger for political and ontological certainty, a positivist epistemology and a naïve faith in the goodness of invention. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Bacon sought to create certainty and order, and with it a new human power over the world, through a new empirical methodology based on a harmonious combination of experiment, the senses and the understanding</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. With this method, he argued, we can 'derive hope from a purer alliance of the faculties (the experimental and rational) than has yet been attempted'.63 In a similar move, Descartes sought to conjure certainty from uncertainty through the application of a new method that moved progressively out from a few basic certainties (the existence of God, the certitude of individual consciousness and a divinely granted faculty of judgement) in a search for pure fixed truths. Mathematics formed the ideal image of this method, with its strict logical reasoning, its quantifiable results and its uncanny insights into the hidden structure of the cosmos.64 Earlier, Galileo had argued that scientists should privilege 'objective', quantifiable qualities over 'merely perceptible' ones; that 'only by means of an exclusively quantitative analysis could science attain certain knowledge of the world'.65 Such doctrines of mathematically verifiable truth were to have powerful echoes in the 20th Century, in the ascendancy of systems analysis, game theory, cybernetics and computing in defense policy and strategic decisions, and in the awesome scientific breakthroughs of nuclear physics, which unlocked the innermost secrets of matter and energy and applied the most advanced applications of mathematics and computing to create the atomic bomb. Yet this new scientific power was marked by a terrible irony: as even Morgenthau understood, the control over matter afforded by the science could never be translated into the control of the weapons themselves, into political utility and rational strategy.66 Bacon thought of the new scientific method not merely as way of achieving a purer access to truth and epistemological certainty, but as liberating a new power that would enable the creation of a new kind of Man. He opened the //Novum Organum// with the statement that 'knowledge and human power are synonymous', and later wrote of his 'determination...to lay a firmer foundation, and extend to a greater distance the boundaries of human power and dignity'.67 In a revealing and highly negative comparison between 'men's lives in the most polished countries of Europe and in any wild and barbarous region of the new Indies' -- one that echoes in advance Kissinger's distinction between post-and pre-Newtonian cultures -- </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Bacon set out what was at stake in the advancement of empirical science: anyone making this comparison, he remarked, 'will think it so great, that man may be said to be a god unto man'.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">68 We may be forgiven for blinking, but in Bacon's thought 'man' was indeed in the process of stealing a new fire from the heavens and seizing God's power over the world for itself. Not only would the new empirical science lead to 'an improvement of mankind's estate, and an increase in their power over nature', but would reverse the primordial humiliation of the Fall of Adam: For man, by the fall, lost at once his state of innocence, and his empire over creation, both of which can be partially recovered even in this life, the first by religion and faith, the second by the arts and sciences. For creation did not become entirely and utterly rebellious by the curse, but in consequence of the Divine decree, 'in the sweat of thy brow thou shalt eat bread'; she is now compelled by our labours (not assuredly by our disputes or magical ceremonies) at length to afford mankind in some degree his bread...69</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">There is a breathtaking, world-creating hubris in this statement -- one that, in many ways, came to characterise western modernity itself, and which is easily recognisable in a generation of modern technocrats like Kissinger.The Fall of Adam was the Judeo-Christian West's primal creation myth, one that marked humankind as flawed and humbled before God, condemned to hardship and ambivalence. Bacon forecast here a return to Eden, but one of man's own making. This truly was the death of God, of putting man into God's place, and no pious appeals to the continuity or guidance of faith could disguise the awesome epistemological violence which now subordinated creation to man</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Bacon indeed argued that inventions are 'new creations and imitations of divine works'. As such, there is nothing but good in science: 'the introduction of great inventions is the most distinguished of human actions...inventions are a blessing and a benefit without injuring or afflicting any'.70 And </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">what would be mankind's 'bread', the rewards of its new 'empire over creation'? If the new method and invention brought modern medicine, social welfare, sanitation, communications, education and comfort, it also enabled the Armenian genocide, the Holocaust and two world wars; napalm, the B52, the hydrogen bomb, the Kalashnikov rifle and military strategy. Indeed some of the 20th Century's most far-reaching inventions </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">-- radar, television, rocketry, computing, communications, jet aircraft, the Internet -- </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">would be the product of drives for national security and militarisation. Even the inventions Bacon thought so marvellous and transformative --</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> printing, gunpowder and the compass -- </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">brought in their wake upheaval and tragedy: printing, dogma and bureaucracy; gunpowder, the rifle and the artillery battery; navigation, slavery and the genocide of indigenous peoples</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. In short, the </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">legacy of the new empirical science would be ambivalence as much as certainty; degradation as much as enlightenment; the destruction of nature as much as its utilisation. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Doubts and Fears: Technology as Ontology </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">If Bacon could not reasonably be expected to foresee many of these developments, the idea that scientific and technological progress could be destructive did occur to him. However it was an anxiety he summarily dismissed: .</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">..let none be alarmed at the objection of the arts and sciences becoming depraved to malevolent or luxurious purposes and the like, for the same can be said of every worldly good; talent, courage, strength, beauty, riches, light itself...Only let mankind regain their rights over nature, assigned to them by the gift of God, and obtain that power, whose exercise will be governed by right reason and true religion.71 By the mid-Twentieth Century, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">after the destruction of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, such fears could no longer be so easily wished away,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> as the physicist and scientific director of the Manhattan Project, J. Robert Oppenheimer recognised. He said in a 1947 lecture: We felt a particularly intimate responsibility for suggesting, for supporting and in the end in large measure achieving the realization of atomic weapons...In some sort of crude sense which no vulgarity, no humor, no over-statement can quite extinguish, the physicists have known sin, and this is a knowledge they cannot lose.72</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Adam had fallen once more, but into a world which refused to acknowledge its renewed intimacy with contingency and evil.Man's empire over creation</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> -- his discovery of the innermost secrets of matter and energy, of the fires that fuelled the stars -- </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">had not 'enhanced human power and dignity'</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> as Bacon claimed, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">but instead brought destruction and horror. Scientific powers</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that had been consciously applied in the defence of life and in the hope of its betterment </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">now threatened its total and absolute destruction. This would not prevent a legion of scientists, soldiers and national security policymakers later attempting to apply Bacon's faith in invention and Descartes' faith in mathematics to make of the Bomb a rational weapon. Oppenheimer -- who resolutely opposed the development of the hydrogen bomb -- understood what the strategists could not: that the weapons resisted control, resisted utility, that 'with the release of atomic energy quite revolutionary changes had occurred in the techniques of warfare'</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.73 Yet Bacon's legacy, one deeply imprinted on the strategists, was his view that truth and utility are 'perfectly identical'.74 In 1947 Oppenheimer had clung to the hope that 'knowledge is good...it seems hard to live any other way than thinking it was better to know something than not to know it; and the more you know, the better'; by 1960 he felt that 'terror attaches to new knowledge. It has an unmooring quality; it finds men unprepared to deal with it.'75 Martin </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Heidegger questioned this mapping of natural science onto the social world in his essays on technology -- which, as 'machine', has been so crucial to modern strategic and geopolitical thought as an image of perfect function and order and a powerful tool of intervention</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. He </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">commented that, given that modern technology 'employs exact physical science...the deceptive illusion arises that modern technology is applied physical science'.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">76 Yet as the essays and speeches of Oppenheimer attest, technology and its relation to science, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">society and war cannot be reduced to a noiseless series of translations of science for politics, knowledge for force, or force for good. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Instead, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Oppenheimer saw a process frustrated by roadblocks and ruptured by irony; in his view there was no smooth, unproblematic translation of scientific truth into social truth, and technology was not its vehicle. Rather his comments raise profound and painful ethical questions that resonate with terror and uncertainty.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Yet this has not prevented technology becoming a potent object of desire, not merely as an instrument of power but as a promise and conduit of certainty itself. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">In the minds of too many rational soldiers, strategists and policymakers, technology brings with it the truth of its enabling science and spreads it over the world. It turns epistemological certainty into political certainty; it turns control over 'facts' into control over the earth. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Heidegger's insights into this phenomena I find especially telling and disturbing -- because they underline the ontological force of the instrumental view of politics. In The Question Concerning Technology, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Heidegger's striking argument was that in the modernising West technology is not merely a tool, a 'means to an end'.Rather technology has become a governing image of the modern universe, one that has come to order, limit and define human existence as a 'calculable coherence of forces' and a 'standing reserve' of energy</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">**.** Heidegger wrote: </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">'the threat to man does not come in the first instance from the potentially lethal machines and apparatus of technology. The actual threat has already affected man in his essence.'</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">77</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> This process Heidegger calls 'Enframing' and through it the scientific mind demands that 'nature reports itself in some way or other that is identifiable through calculation and remains orderable as a system of information'.Man is not a being who makes and uses machines as means</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, choosing and limiting their impact on the world for his ends; </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">rather man has imagined the world as a machine and humanity everywhere becomes trapped within its logic. Man,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> he writes, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">'comes to the very brink of a precipitous fall...where he himself will have to be taken as standing-reserve. Meanwhile Man, precisely as the one so threatened, exalts himself to the posture of lord of the earth.'</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">78</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> Technological man not only becomes the name for a project of lordship and mastery over the earth, but incorporates humanity within this project as a calculable resource. In strategy, warfare and geopolitics human bodies, actions and aspirations are caught, transformed and perverted by such calculating, enframing reason: human lives are reduced to tools, obstacles, useful or obstinate matter.</span>

**And, The alternative is to refuse securitization—the discourse of security needs to constantly reproduce itself in everyday debates on foreign policy—vote negative to interrupt the hegemony circulation of security knowledge**
<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Anthony </span>//Burke, 2007//<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">, Senior Lecturer in the School of Politics and Int. Relations at the Univ of New South Wales, Sydney, Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence, 52-3</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is perhaps easy to become despondent, but</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">as countless struggles for freedom, justice and social transformation have proved, a sense of seriousness can be tempered with the knowledge that many of the tools are already available</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – and where they are not,</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the effort to create a productive new critical sensibility is well advanced</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. There is also a crucial political opening within the liberal problematic itself, in the sense that it assumes that</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">power is most effective when it is absorbed as truth, consented to and desired</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">which creates an important space for dissent, critique and refusal</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As Colin Gordon argues,</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Foucault thought that the very possibility of governing was conditional on it being credible to the governed as well as the governing</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.79 </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">This throws weight onto the question of how security works as a technology of subjectivity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is to</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">take up Foucault's challenge</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, framed as a reversal of the liberal progressive movement of being we have seen in Hegel,</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">not to discover who we are so much as to refuse what we are</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.80 </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Just as security rules subjectivity as both a totalising and individualising blackmail and promise, it is at these levels we too can intervene. We can critique the machinic frameworks of possibility represented by law, policy, economic regulation and diplomacy, while challenging the way these institutions deploy language to draw individual subjects into their consensual web. This</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">suggests, at least provisionally, a dual strategy. The first</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">asserts the space for agency, both in challenging available possibilities for being and their larger socio-economic implications. Pushing beyond security requires tactics that can work at many levels</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">that empower individuals to recognise the larger social, cultural and economic implications of the everyday forms of desire, subjection and discipline they encounter, to challenge and rewrite them, and which in turn contribute to collective efforts to transform the larger structures of being, exchange and power that sustain</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(and have been sustained by)</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">these forms</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As Derrida suggests,</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">this is to open up aporetic possibilities that transgress and call into question the boundaries of the self, society and the international that security seeks to imagine and police. The second seeks new ethical principles based on a critique of the rigid and repressive forms of identity security has</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">heretofore</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">offered</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Thus writers such as Rosalyn Diprose, William Connolly and Moira Gatens have sought to imagine a new ethical relationship, which thinks difference not on the basis of the Same, but</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">on the basis of a dialogue with the Other that might allow space for the unknown and unfamiliar</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for what Gatens calls</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">a 'debate and engagement with the other's law and the other's ethics'</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">an encounter which involves a transformation of the self rather than the other</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.81 (The potentials and limits of these models of ethics are explored in more detail in Chapter 3, where I critically analyse the political possibilities offered by the thought of Emmanuel Levinas, Martin Heidegger and Martin Buber.) In short, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">while the sweep and power of security must be acknowledged, it must also be refused: at the simultaneous levels of individual identity, social order and macroeconomic possibility, it would entail another kind of work on 'ourselves</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">' – </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">a political refusal of the One, the imagination of an Other that never returns to the Same. It is to imagine a world in which alternative possibilities of society, justice and existence are free to develop, independent of sovereign ontologies and their animating forms of geopolitical control, desire and violence. It is to ask if there can be a world or a security after security, and what its shimmering possibilities might be.</span>

**Finally, this refusal is uniquely necessary against the securitization of outer space—these knowledges are currently in the process of being formed and critique is key.**
<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Fraser </span>//MacDonald, 2007//<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">, School of Anthropology, Geography and Environmental Studies, University of Melbourne, “Anti-Astropolitik -- outer space and the orbit of geography,” Progress in Human Geography 31(5) (2007) pp. 592–615, sage</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dolman’s astropolitical project is by no means exceptional. The journal Astropolitics, of which he is a founding editor, contains numerous papers expressing similar views. It is easy, I think, for critical geographers to feel so secure in the intellectual and political purchase of Ó Tuathailian critiques (Ó Tuathail, 1996), that we become oblivious to the undead nature of classical geopolitics. It is comforting to think that most geography undergraduates encountering geopolitics, in the UK at least, will in all likelihood do so through the portal of critical perspectives, perhaps through the excellent work of Joanne Sharp or Klaus Dodds (Dodds, 2005; Sharp, 2005). But </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the legacies of Mackinder and Mahan live on, andradical critique is as urgent as ever.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> While this is not the place for a thoroughgoing reappraisal of astropolitics in the manner of Gearòid Ó Tuathail, a few salient points from his critique can be brought out. (1) Astrography and </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">astropolitics</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, like geography and geopolitics, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">constitute ‘a political domination and cultural imagining of space’</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ó Tuathail, 1996: 28). </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">While commentators like Colin Gray have posited an ‘inescapable geography’</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (eg, ‘of course, physical geography is politically neutral’), </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">a critical agenda conceives of geography not as a fixed substratum but as a highly social form of knowledge</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Gray, 1999: 173; Ó Tuathail, 1999: 109). For geography, read ‘astrography’. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">We must be alert to the ‘declarative’ (‘this is how the Outer Earth is’) and ‘imperative’ (‘this is what we must do’) modes of narration that astropolitics has borrowed from its terrestrial antecedent</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ó Tuathail, 1999: 107). </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The models of Mackinder and Mahan </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">that are so often </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">applied to</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">space</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> environment </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">are not unchanging laws; on the contrary they are themselves highly political attempts to create and sustain particular strategic outcomes in specific historical circumstances.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(2) </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Rather than actively supporting the dominant structures and mechanisms of power</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">a critical astropolitics must place the primacy of such forces always already in question</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Critical astropolitics aims to scrutinize the power politics of the expert/ think-tank/tactician aspart of a wider project of deepening public debate and strengthening democratic accountability</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ó Tuathail, 1999: 108). (3) </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Mackinder’s</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> ‘end of geography’ </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">thesis held that</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the era of terrestrial exploration and </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">discovery was over, leaving only the task of consolidating the world order to fit British interests</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ó Tuathail, 1996: 27). </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Dolman’s vision of space strategy bears striking similarities</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Like Ó Tuathail’s critique of Mackinder’s imperial hubris, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Astropolitik could be reasonably described as ‘triumphalism blind to its own precariousness’</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ó Tuathail, 1996: 28). </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Dolman</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, for instance</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">, makes little effort to conceal his tumescent patriotism, observing that ‘the United States is awash with power after its impressive victories in the</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 1991 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Gulf</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> War </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">and</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 1999 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Kosovo</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> campaign, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">and stands at the forefront</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of history capable of presiding over the birth </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">of a bold New World Order’</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. One might argue, however, that Mackinder – as the theorist of imperial decline – may in this respect be an appropriate mentor (Ó Tuathail, 1999: 112). </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">It is important</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, I think, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">to demystify Astropolitik</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">: </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">there is nothing ‘inevitable’ about US dominance in space, even if the USA were to pursue this imperial logic. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(4) Again like Mackinder, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Astropolitik mobilizes an unquestioned ethnocentrism. Implicit in this ideology is the notion that America must beat China into space because ‘they’ are not like ‘us’. ‘The most ruthlessly suitable’ candidates for space dominance, we are told – ‘the most capably endowed’ – are like those who populated America and Australia</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Dolman, 2002: 27). (5) </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">A critical astropoliticsmust challenge the ‘mythic’ properties of Astropolitik and disrupt its reveriefor the ‘timeless insights’ of the so-called geopolitical masters</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. For Ó Tuathail, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">‘geopolitics is mythic because it promises uncanny clarity ... in a complex world’ and is ‘fetishistically concerned with .... prophecy’</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ó Tuathail, 1999: 113). Ó Tuathail’s </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">critical project</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, by contrast, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">seeks to recover the political and historical contexts through which</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">knowledge</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of Mackinder and Mahan </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">has become formalized. </span>


===Security=== 
====**1NC**==== 
**Security discourse causes apocalypse in the name of survival**
Peter <span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Coviello</span>, Asst Prof of English – Bowdoin, <span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">‘1</span>
(Queer Frontiers, ed. Boone, author’s italics)
Perhaps. But to claim that American culture is at present decisively postnuclear is not to say that the world we inhabit is in any way post-apocalyptic. Apocalypse, as I began by saying, //changed// – it did not go away. And here I want to hazard my second assertion: if, in the nuclear age of yesteryear, apocalypse signified an event threatening everyone and everything with (in Jacques Derrida’s suitably menacing phrase) “remainderless and a-symbolic destruction,”6 then in the postnuclear world apocalypse is an affair whose parameters are definitively //local// in shape and in substance, apocalypse is defined now by the affliction it brings //somewhere else//, always to an “other” people whose very presence might then be written as a kind of dangerous contagion, threatening the safety and the prosperity of a cherished “general population.” This fact seems to me to stand behind Susan Sontag’s incisive observation, from 1989, that, “Apocalypse is now a long-running serial: not ‘Apocalypse Now’ but ‘Apocalypse from Now On.’”7 The decisive point here in the perpetuation of the threat of apocalypse (the point Sontag goes on, at length, to miss) is that apocalypse is ever present because, as an element in a vast economy of power, it is ever useful. That is, through the perpetual threat of destruction – through the constant reproduction of the //figure// of apocalypse – agencies of power ensure their authority to act on and through the bodies of a particular population. No one turns this point more persuasively than Michel Foucault, who in the final chapter of his first volume of //The History of Sexuality// addresses himself to the problem of a power that is less repressive than productive, less life-threatening than, in his words, “life-administering.” Power, he contends, “exerts a positive influence on life … [and] endeavors to administer, optimize, and multiply it, subjecting it to precise controls and comprehensive regulations.” In his brief comments on what he calls “the atomic situation,” however, Foucault insists as well that the productiveness of modern power must not be mistaken for a uniform repudiation of violent or even lethal means. For as “managers of life and survival, of bodies and the race,” agencies of modern power presume to act “//on// //the behalf of the existence of everyone//.” Whatsoever might be construed as a threat to life and survival serves to authorize //any// expression of force, no matter how invasive or, indeed, potentially annihilating. “If genocide is indeed the dream of modern power,” Foucault writes, “this is not because of a recent return to the ancient right to kill; it is because power is situated and exercised at the level of life, the species, the race, and the large-scale phenomena of population.”8 For a state that would arm itself not with the power to kill its population, but with a more comprehensive power over the patterns and functioning of its collective life, the threat of an apocalyptic demise, nuclear or otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.


**Vote neg to critique the aff’s security discourse as a prior question**
Graeme <span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Cheeseman</span>, Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, <span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">and</span> Robert <span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Bruce</span>, <span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">‘96</span>
(//Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers//, p. 5-9)

This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of international relations in Australia, even though they are gaining influence worldwide as traditional modes of theory and practice are rendered inadequate by global trends that defy comprehension, let alone policy. The inability to give meaning to global changes reflects partly the enclosed, elitist world of professional security analysts and bureaucratic experts, where entry is gained by learning and accepting to speak a particular, exclusionary language. The contributors to this book are familiar with the discourse, but accord no privileged place to its ‘knowledge form as reality’ in debates on defence and security. Indeed, they believe that <span style="text-decoration: none;">debate will be furthered only through a</span> long overdue <span style="text-decoration: none;">critical re-evaluation</span> of elite perspectives. Pluralistic, democratically-oriented perspectives on Australia’s identity are both required and essential if Australia’s thinking on defence and security is to be invigorated.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">This is not a conventional policy</span> book; <span style="text-decoration: none;">nor should it be, in the sense of offering policy-makers</span> and their academic counterparts sets of <span style="text-decoration: none;">neat alternative solutions</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">in familiar language and format</span>, to problems they pose. <span style="text-decoration: none;">This expectation is in itself a considerable part of the problem</span> to be analysed. <span style="text-decoration: none;">It is</span>, however, <span style="text-decoration: none;">a book about policy</span>, one <span style="text-decoration: none;">that questions how problems are framed</span> by policy-makers. It challenges the proposition that irreducible bodies of real knowledge on defence and security exist independently of their ‘context in the world’, and it demonstrates how <span style="text-decoration: none;">security policy is articulated authoritatively by the elite keepers of that knowledge</span>, experts trained to recognize enduring, universal wisdom. All others, from this perspective, must accept such wisdom or remain outside the expert domain, tainted by their inability to comply with the ‘rightness’ of the official line. But it is precisely <span style="text-decoration: none;">the official</span> line, or at least its <span style="text-decoration: none;">image of the world</span>, that <span style="text-decoration: none;">needs to be problematised</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">If the critic responds directly to the demand for policy alternatives, without addressing this image, he or she is tacitly endorsing it</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Before engaging in the policy debate the critics need to reframe the basic terms of reference</span>. This book, then, reflects and underlines the importance of Antonio Gramsci and Edward Said’s ‘critical intellectuals’.15
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The demand</span>, tacit or otherwise, <span style="text-decoration: none;">that the policy-maker’s frame of reference be accepted as the only basis for discussion</span> and analysis <span style="text-decoration: none;">ignores a three thousand year old tradition</span> commonly associated with Socrates and purportedly <span style="text-decoration: none;">integral to</span> the Western tradition of <span style="text-decoration: none;">democratic dialogue</span>. More immediately, it ignores post-seventeenth century democratic traditions which insist that a good <span style="text-decoration: none;">society must have</span> within it <span style="text-decoration: none;">some way of critically assessing its knowledge</span> and the decisions based upon that knowledge which impact upon citizens of such a society. This is a tradition with a slightly different connotation in contemporary liberal democracies which, during the Cold War, were proclaimed different and superior to the totalitarian enemy precisely because there were institutional checks and balances upon power. In short, one of the major differences between ‘open societies’ and their (closed) counterparts behind the Iron Curtain was that the former encouraged the critical testing of the knowledge and decisions of the powerful and assessing them against liberal democratic principles. The latter tolerated criticism only on rare and limited occasions. For some, this represented the triumph of rational-scientific methods of inquiry and techniques of falsification. For others, especially since positivism and rationalism have lost much of their allure, it meant that for society to become open and liberal, sectors of the population must be independent of the state and free to question its knowledge and power. Though we do not expect this position to be accepted by every reader, contributors to this book believe that critical dialogue is long overdue in Australia and needs to be listened to. For all its liberal democratic trappings, Australia’s security community continues to invoke closed monological narratives on defence and security.
This book also questions the distinctions between policy practice and academic theory that inform conventional accounts of Australian security. One of its major concerns, particularly in chapters 1 and 2, is to illustrate how <span style="text-decoration: none;">theory is integral to the practice of</span> security analysis and <span style="text-decoration: none;">policy prescription</span>. The book also <span style="text-decoration: none;">call</span>s <span style="text-decoration: none;">on policy-makers, academics and students</span> of defence and security <span style="text-decoration: none;">to think critically about</span> what they are reading, writing and saying; to begin to ask, of their work and study, difficult and searching questions raised in other disciplines; to recognise, no matter how uncomfortable it feels, that what is involved in theory and practice is not the ability to identify a replacement for failed models, but a realisation that <span style="text-decoration: none;">terms and concepts</span> – state <span style="text-decoration: none;">sovereignty</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">balance of power</span>, security, <span style="text-decoration: none;">and so on</span> – <span style="text-decoration: none;">are</span> contested and <span style="text-decoration: none;">problematic</span>, and that the world is indeterminate, always becoming what is written about it. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Critical analysis which shows how particular</span> kinds of <span style="text-decoration: none;">theoretical presumptions can</span> effectively <span style="text-decoration: none;">exclude vital areas of political life</span> from analysis <span style="text-decoration: none;">has direct practical implications for policy-makers</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">academics and citizens who face the daunting task of steering Australia through some potentially choppy international waters over the next few years. There is also much of interest in the chapters for those struggling to give meaning to a world where so much that has long been taken for granted now demands imaginative, incisive reappraisal. The contributors, too, have struggled to find meaning, often despairing at the terrible human costs of international violence. This is why readers will find no single, fully formed panacea for the world’s ills in general, or Australia’s security in particular. There are none. Every chapter, however, in its own way, offers something more than is found in orthodox literature, often by exposing ritualistic Cold War defence and security mind-sets that are dressed up as new thinking. Chapters 7 and 9, for example, present alternative ways of engaging in security and defence practice. Others (chapters 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8) seek to alert policy-makers, academics and students to</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">alternative theoretical possibilities</span> which <span style="text-decoration: none;">might better serve</span> an
Australian community pursuing <span style="text-decoration: none;">security and prosperity</span> in an uncertain world. All chapters confront the policy community and its counterparts in the academy with a deep awareness of the intellectual and material constraints imposed by dominant traditions of realism, but they avoid dismissive and exclusionary terms which often in the past characterized exchanges between policy-makers and their critics. This is because, as noted earlier, <span style="text-decoration: none;">attention</span> needs <span style="text-decoration: none;">to</span> be paid to the <span style="text-decoration: none;">words and</span> the <span style="text-decoration: none;">thought processes</span> of those being criticized. A close reading of this kind draws attention to underlying assumptions, showing they need to be recognized and questioned. A sense of doubt (in place of confident certainty) <span style="text-decoration: none;">is a necessary prelude to a genuine search for alternative policies</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">First comes an awareness of the need for new perspectives, then specific policies may follow.</span>
As Jim George argues in the following chapter, <span style="text-decoration: none;">we need to look not so much at contending policies</span> as they are made for us <span style="text-decoration: none;">but at challenging ‘the discursive process which gives [favoured interpretations of “reality”] their meaning and which direct</span> [Australia’s] <span style="text-decoration: none;">policy</span>/analytical/military <span style="text-decoration: none;">responses’</span>. This process is not restricted to the small, official defence and security establishment huddled around the US-Australian War Memorial in Canberra. It also encompasses much of Australia’s academic defence and security community located primarily though not exclusively within the Australian National University and the University College of the University of New South Wales. These discursive processes are examined in detail in subsequent chapters as authors attempt to make sense of a politics of exclusion and closure which exercises disciplinary power over Australia’s security community. <span style="text-decoration: none;">They</span> also <span style="text-decoration: none;">question the discourse of ‘regional security’, ‘security cooperation’, ‘peacekeeping’ and ‘alliance politics’</span> that are central to Australia’s official and academic security agenda in the 1990s. This is seen as an important task especially when, as is revealed, the disciplines of International Relations and Strategic Studies are under challenge from critical and theoretical debates ranging across the social sciences and humanities; debates that are nowhere to be found in Australian defence and security studies. The chapters graphically illustrate how Australia’s public policies on defence and security are informed, underpinned and legitimised by a narrowly-based intellectual enterprise which draws strength from contested concepts of realism and liberalism, which in turn seek legitimacy through policy-making processes. Contributors ask whether Australia’s policy-makers and their academic advisors are unaware of broader intellectual debates, or resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?


===Schmitt=== 

The affirmative’s concept of the political reproduces the most naïve form of liberalism—sovling for the violence of its enemies real and imagined only drives the fundamental antagonisms that are the root cause of that violence underground. War as the horizon of international relations is inevitable, and only by accepting that difference is the foundation of the political produces a politics that can limit the effects of warfare

//<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Rasch</span>//, Professor and Chair of Germanic Studies @ Indiana University, //<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">in ‘5</span>//
[William Henry. “Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle.” Can be found in the South Atlantic Quarterly, Spring 2005. 255-61]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Schmitt</span>, then, starts from the premise of imperfection and <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">acknowledges an ontological priority of violence</span>. If, he reasons, one starts with the rather biblical notions of sin and guilt, not natural innocence, then homogeneity, being contingent, historical, and not the least natural, must be predicated on heterogeneity. That is, citizenship or participation or <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">community must be</span> constructed, not assumed, and can only be <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">local</span>, circumscribed, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">not global. One recognizes one’s own in the face of the other and knows the comfort of inclusion only as the necessary result of exclusion—though in modern, functionally differentiated society, those inclusions and exclusions may be multiple, contradictory, and not necessarily tied to place</span>. ‘‘An abso- lute human equality,’’ Schmitt writes in his Crisis of Parliamentary Democ- racy, ‘‘would be an equality without the necessary correlate of inequality and as a result conceptually and practically meaningless, an indifferent equality. . . . Substantive inequalities would in no way disappear from the world and the state; they would shift into another sphere, perhaps separated from the political and concentrated in the economic, leaving this area to take on a new, disproportionately decisive importance.’’6 This, Schmitt’s, is not a popular sentiment, even if it echoes somewhat the Marxist distinc- tion between a political and a social democracy, between a formal and sub- stantial equality. But <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">if one acknowledges </span>that at least within modernity <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">all inclusion requires exclusion, that inclusions and exclusions in addition to being unavoidable are also contingent and malleable, then rather than react with dismay, one might see in this ‘‘logical fact,’’ if fact it is, both the condition for the possibility of dissent and the condition for the possibility of recognizing in the one who resists and disagrees a fellow human being and thus legitimate political opponent, not a</span> Lyon or Tyger or other <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Savge Beast</span>. For it is not that exclusions are miraculously made absent once distinc- tions are not formally drawn. On the contrary, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">unacknowledged distinctions, and those who are distinguished by them, simply go underground, become invisible, and grow stronger, more absolute, in their violent and explosive force</span>. When the retrograde and condemned distinction between the ‘‘Greek’’ and the ‘‘barbarian’’ becomes a simple, sanguine affirmation of humanity, this ideal affirmation actually turns out to be nothing other than a distinction drawn between all those who, by their right behavior, show themselves to be truly ‘‘human’’ and those who, alas, by their per- verse dissent, have revealed themselves to be evildoers, to be ‘‘inhuman.’’ <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Deliberate, visible, ‘‘external’’ distinctions that demarcate a space in which a ‘‘we’’ can recognize its difference from a ‘‘they,’’ preferably without marking that difference in a necessarily asymmetrical manner, are to be preferred</span>, in Schmitt’s world, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to the invisible and unacknowledged distinctions that mark those who are exemplary humans from those who, by their political dissent, show themselves to be gratuitously perverse</span>. For reasons, then, of making difference visible, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Schmitt favors lines drawn in the sand</span>, or, in the ‘‘mythical language’’ used in The Nomos of the Earth, ‘‘firm lines’’ in the ‘‘soil,’’ ‘‘whereby definite divisions become apparent,’’ and, above them, n the ‘‘solid ground of the earth,’’ ‘‘fences, enclosures, boundaries, walls, houses, and other constructs,’’ <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">so that the ‘‘orders and orientations of human social life become apparent’’ and the ‘‘forms of power and domination become visible</span>.’’7 In Nomos, Schmitt describes the now much maligned and seldom mourned European nation-state system as ‘‘the highest form of order within the scope of human power’’ (187). Historically, the territorial state devel- oped as a response to the religious civil wars of the sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries. Once thought of as a unity called Christendom, Europe became fractured by the events of the Reformation and Counter- Reformation. The old asymmetrical distinction between believers and non- believers that governed the relationship not only between Christians and non-Christians, but also between Christian orthodoxy and heresy, now threatened to regulate the distinction between Catholics and Protestants. Yet, miraculously (one might be tempted to say), with the conclusion of religious warfare in 1648, a symmetrical relationship among the European nation-states prevailed—in theory, if not always in fact. It is this symmetri- cal ordering of internally differentiated Europe that Schmitt highlights. In effect—and Hobbes had already described it in these terms—the war of all individuals against all individuals in the state of nature, which perennially threatens to resurface within the state as civil discord, is elevated into a war of all states against all states in a second-order state of nature. In theory and practice, then, the individual is protected from arbitrary and irrational, because incalculable, violence by states acting as moral persons living in an unregulated but serendipitously achieved balance of power. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We might best update Schmitt’s description of this order as an ideally anarchic, self-regulating coexistence of antagonistic powers, an emergent, horizontal self-organization of sovereign systems with no one system serving as sovereign over all the others—a plurality of states that refused to coalesce into one single state but rather achieved relative security without relinquishing autonomy. The ‘‘medium’’ of this self-organization was violence (war); yet, by virtue of mechanisms of reciprocity, by virtue, that is, of a similarly emergent self-regulation of violence called international law (the jus publicum Europaeum of which Schmitt sings his praises), the conduct of warfare among European states was restrained and controlled. </span>Thus, the nation-state way of organizing early modern Europe served as the katechon, the political as restrainer, establishing relative stability and peace to stave off chaos and civil war. How is this possible? Despite its internal self-differentiation, Europe still saw itself as a unity because of a second major distinction, the one be- tween Europe and the New World, where New World denotes the entire non-European world, but especially the newly ‘‘discovered’’ regions of the globe following Columbus’s three voyages. This distinction was asymmet- rical; on the one side we find Christianity and culture, on the other only pagan ‘‘barbarians.’’ How did Europeans mark this difference between a self-differentiated ‘‘us’’ and a homogenous ‘‘them’’? Through violence. Only now, violence was regulated hierarchically by the traditional ‘‘just war’’ doc- trine. Schmitt clearly marks the difference between symmetrical and asym- metrical modes of warfare (thus the difference between warfare ‘‘this side’’ versus the ‘‘other side’’ of so-called amity lines that separated Old Europe from the New World) as the difference between wars fought against ‘‘just enemies’’ and those fought for a ‘‘just cause.’’ The former recognize a com- monality among combatants that allows for reciprocity; the latter does not. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Wars fought against enemies one respects as occupiers of the same cultural ‘‘space,’’ no matter how subdivided, allows for the desirable constraints on the conduct of war. Wars fought against infidels, pagans, and barbarians, whether these barbarians deny the one God, the laws of nature, the truth of reason, or the higher morality of liberalism, are wars fought against those who are not to be respected or accorded the rights granted equals.</span>8 To be in possession of truth, no matter how much that truth is debated internally, allows one to stand over against the other as a conglomerated unity. This self-differentiated unity can assume the restrained and restraining order of civilization because it has inoculated itself against outbreaks of ‘‘natu- ral’’ and lawless violence by displacing them in the New World. America, as Hobbes and others imagined it, was the preeminent site of the feared state of nature; thus Europe was spared any recurrence of the civil wars that had previously ravaged it. What Schmitt describes as an enviable achievement—that is, the bal- anced order of restrained violence within Europe—presupposed the con- signment of unrestrained violence to the rest of the world. That is, desired restraint was founded upon sanctioned lack of restraint. If Schmitt, by con- centrating on the development of European international law after the reli- gious civil wars, highlights an admirable local result of a disagreeable global process, this can be attributed to his explicit Eurocentrism. But even non- Eurocentrics may be dismayed by the twentieth-century reintroduction of unrestricted violence within Europe itself. The epitome of this return of the epressed may be the midcentury death camp, as Giorgio Agamben main- tains,9 but its initial breakthrough is the Great War of the century’s sec- ond decade. For how else can one explain that a traditional European power struggle that started in 1914 as a war fought for state interest should end in 1918–19 as a war fought by ‘‘civilization’’ against its ‘‘barbarian’’ other? And how else can one explain that we have been so eager to replicate this dis- tinction in every war we have fought ever since? If, in other words, we are rightly horrified by the distinction between civilized and uncivilized when it is used to describe the relationship of Old Europe and its colonial subjects, and if we are rightly horrified by the distinction between the human and the in- or subhuman when it is used to discriminate against blacks, Jews, Gyp- sies, and other so-called undesirables, then why do we persist today in using these very distinctions when combating our latest enemies? Is it merely ironic or in fact profoundly symptomatic that those who most vehemently affirm universal symmetry (equality, democracy) are also more often than not the ones who opt for the most asymmetrical means of locating enemies and conducting war—that is, just wars fought for a just cause? But how are we to respond? <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">For those who say there is no war and who yet find themselves witnessing daily bloodshed,</span> Adornoian asceticism (refrain- ing from participating in the nihilism of the political) or Benjaminian weak, quasi, or other messianism (waiting for the next incarnation of the his- torical subject [the multitudes?] or the next proletarian general strike [the event?]) would seem to be the answer. To this, however, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">those who say there is a war can respond only with bewilderment. Waiting for a ‘‘com- pletely new politics</span>’’10 <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and completely new political agents, waiting for the event and the right moment to name it, or waiting for universal ontological redemption feels much like waiting for the Second Coming</span>, or, more accu- rately, for Godot. And have we not all grown weary of waiting? <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The war we call ‘‘the political,’’ whether nihilist or not, happily goes on while we watch Rome burn</span>. As Schmitt wrote of the relationship of early Christianity to the Roman Empire, ‘‘The belief that a restrainer holds back the end of the world provides the only bridge between the notion of an eschatological paralysis of all human events and a tremendous historical monolith like that of the Christian empire of the Germanic kings’’ (60). One does not need to believe in the virtues of that particular ‘‘historical monolith’’ to understand the dan- gers of eschatological paralysis. But as Max Weber observed firsthand, ascetic quietude leads so often, so quickly, and so effortlessly to the chiliastic violence that knows no bounds;11 and as we have lately observed anew, the millennial messianism of imperial rulers and nomadic partisans alike dominates the contemporary political landscape. The true goal of those who say there is no war is to eliminate the war that actually exists by eliminating those Lyons and Tygers and other Savage Beasts who say there is a war. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This war is the truly savage war. It is the war we witness today. No amount of democratization, pacification, or Americanization will mollify its effects, because democratization, pacification, and Americanization are among the weapons used by those who say there is no war to wage their war to end all war.</span>What is to be done? <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If you are one who says there is a war</span>, and if you say it not because you glory in it but <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">because you fear it and hate it, then your goal is to limit it and its effects, not eliminate it, which merely intensifies it, but limit it by drawing clear lines within which it can be fought, and clear lines between those who fight it and those who don’t, lines between friends, enemies, and neutrals, lines between combatants and noncombat- ants</span>. There are, of course, legitimate doubts about whether those ideal lines could ever be drawn again; nevertheless, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the question that we should ask is not how can we establish perpetual peace, but rather a more modest one: Can symmetrical relationships be guaranteed only by asymmetrical ones</span>? According to Schmitt, historically this has been the case. ‘‘The tradi- tional Eurocentric order of international law is foundering today, as is the old nomos of the earth. This order arose from a legendary and unforeseen discovery of a new world, from an unrepeatable historical event. Only in fantastic parallels can one imagine a modern recurrence, such as men on their way to the moon discovering a new and hitherto unknown planet that could be exploited freely and utilized effectively to relieve their struggles on earth’’ (39). We have since gone to the moon and have found nothing on the way there to exploit. We may soon go to Mars, if current leaders have their way, but the likelihood of finding exploitable populations seems equally slim. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Salvation through spatially delimited asymmetry, even were it to be desired, is just not on the horizon. And salvation through globalization</span>, that is, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">through global unity and equality, is equally impossible, because today’s asymmetry is not so much a localization of the exception as it is an invisible generation of the exception from within that formal ideal of unity, a generation of the exception as the difference between the human and the inhuman outlaw, the ‘‘Savage Beast, with whom Men can have no Society nor Security.’’ We are,</span> therefore, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">thrown back upon ourselves, which is to say, upon those artificial ‘‘moral persons’’ who act as our collective political identities. They used to be called states. What they will be called in the future remains to be seen. But, if we think to establish a differentiated unity of discrete political entities that once represented for Schmitt ‘‘the highest form of order within the scope of human power,’’ then we must symmetrically manage the necessary pairing of inclusion and exclusion without denying the ‘‘forms of power and domination’’ that inescapably accompany human ordering. We must think the possibility of roughly equivalent power relations rather than fantasize the elimination of power from the political universe</span>. This, conceivably, was also Schmitt’s solution. Whether his idea of the plurality of Großräume could ever be carried out under contemporary cir- cumstances is, to be sure, more than a little doubtful, given that the United States enjoys a monopoly on guns, goods, and the Good, in the form of a supremely effective ideology of universal ‘‘democratization.’’ Still, we would do well to devise vocabularies that do not just emphatically repeat philo- sophically more sophisticated versions of the liberal ideology of painless, effortless, universal equality. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The space of the political will never be created by a bloodless</span>, Benjaminian<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> divine violence. Nor is it to be confused with the space of the simply human. To dream the dreams of universal inclusion may satisfy an irrepressible human desire, but it may also always produce recurring, asphyxiating political nightmares of absolute exclusion.</span>


And, the elimination of the friend/enemy dichotomy reproduces the worst forms of biopolitical violence—genocide and total war are the outcome of a politics where former enemies become inhuman others

//<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Thorup</span>//, lecturer and at the Institute of Philosophy and History of Ideas at the univ of Aarhus in Denmark, //<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">in ‘6</span>//
[Mikkel, In Defense of Enmity – Critiques of Liberal Globalism, Ph.D. Dissertation]
Another register in which <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the lines are</span> blurred or rather <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">non-existent</span> is <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in the biopolitical enmity as theorized by</span> Michel <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Foucault</span> (2003; Kelly 2004) <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and</span> Giorgio <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Agamben</span> (1998). Here, we most clearly see the blurring of lines. In the biopolitical enmity, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the enemy is named in biological and psychological terms and the enemy is found within the social body. The line between an inside, the friends, and an outside, the enemies, is no longer meaningful. The enemy lives among us and the biopolitical state takes it upon itself to single out those, who threaten the health of the community. This</span> concept of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">enmity is </span>also <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">highly discriminatory. It establishes a hierarchy of worthy life and</span> starts to talk about <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">'life unworthy of being lived' and its annihilation </span>(Agamben 1998: 136), most dramatically and tragically <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">executed in the Nazi concentration and euthanasia program</span> but for both Foucault and Agamben a constitutive element in modernity. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The goal of a biopolitical war is</span> not <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to</span> reach a modus vivendi with the enemy but to <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">eliminate</span> him. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This is a total war: </span>... <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the enemies who</span> have to be done away with <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">are not adversaries in the political sense</span> of the term; they are threats, either external or internal, to the population and for the population. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In the biopower system</span>, in other words, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">killing</span> or the imperative to kill <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is acceptable only if it results not in a victory over political adversaries, but in the elimination of the biological threat to and the improvement of the species or race</span>. (Foucault 2003: 256, my italics) <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">What the biopolitical enmity makes clear is the normalization of the exceptional, as the biopolitical state declares war on parts of its own population, not only in form of extermination but also quarantining of the sick, surveillance, exclusions, imprisonments, institutionalization of the abnormal</span> etc. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The heroic battles are replaced by micro-technologies that maximize the mortality of some groups and minimize it for others. </span>Instead of individual killings, we get what Ernst Fraenkel with a very precise expression called 'civil death' (1969: 95) or what Foucualt called 'statistical death'. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The sovereign</span> does not <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">manifest himself </span>in splendid displays of power, public executions, but <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in the actions of the secret police, disappearances and extermination camps</span> (Foucault 2003: chap. 11). The biopolitical state emerges, where racism and statism meets. It is no longer: 'We have to defend ourselves against society', but 'We have to defend society against all the biological threats posed by the other, the subrace, the counterrace that we are, despite ourselves, bringing into existence' ... <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">we see the appearance of a State racism: a racism that society will direct against itself, against its own elements and its own products. This is the internal racism of permanent purification</span> (Foucault 2003: 61-2)

Enemies come first. Voting negative is the endorcement of a decisionist ethic of enmity that crafts our subjectivities in a way that accepts the inevitability of insecurity and open the space for the pluralization of political differences.

//<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Prozorov</span>//, Professor of International Relations, Petrozavodsk State University, Russia, //<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">in ‘7</span>//

[Sergei, “The ethos of insecure life: Reading Carl Schmitt’s existential decisionism as a Foucauldian ethics”, in The International Political thought of Carl Schmitt, eds. Louiza Osysseos and Fabio Petito, pg. 233-8]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The affirmation of the self that this telos of sovereignty points to is markedly ‘non-positive’</span> (Foucault 1977b: 36): <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a Schmittian subject affirms itself through the art of making enemies, yet simultaneously destroys every possibility of making this subjectivity a transcendental ground by retaining proximity to the void that conditions his being. It affirms life in the absence of grounds</span>, that is, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it engages the void in its ethical practice rather than orient ethical practice to the erasure of the void in the authoritative postulation of the locus of truth at its bottom. It is this ‘non-positive affirmation’ that constitutes</span> what we propose to call <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the ethos of insecure life</span>. This ethos is indeed <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">marked by a lightness, eman- ating from the dissolution of the epistemic and moral certitude of the collective regimes of truth which constitute us in our positive identity</span>. Yet,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the cost of this ethical practice of liberty is an ineradicable sense of insecurity that arises</span>, by definition, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">from an antagonistic relationship to the world that forms the very substance of the decisionist ethics</span>. While various strands of what David Camp- bell (1993: 4) refers to as ‘politics of principle’ proceed from the problematisa- tion of this insecurity and attempt its effacement through postulating abstract universalist ideals of humanism and enacting them in peculiarly intense prac- tices of violence, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the ethos of insecure life precludes the possibility of familiar postures of missionaries and crusaders in its affirmation of ‘unprincipled’ existence</span>. Paradoxically at first glance, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">this antagonistic ethos that is ‘nihilistic’, ‘decisionist’ and ‘irrational’ and that emphasises the constitutive intensity of a ‘whatever decision’ over a substantive conception of the good, </span>appears to pre- scribe practices marked by a stronger sense of humility and responsibility than the moralist ethos of politics of principle, of whose many guises the current drive of global ‘anti-terrorism’ is the latest manifestation.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Self-deprived of epis- temic and moral certitude, a Schmittian subject reserves the capacity of judge- ment and decision, but, placing itself in these very acts in proximity to the void of undecidability, forfeits the capacity to ground and universalise its judgement. Both speaking for others and telling others where truth or morality resides becomes a manifest indignity for a Schmittian subject</span>. Conclusion This ethical disposition is evidently easy to dismiss as empirically impossible, romantically naive or politically dangerous. Any thoroughgoing decisionism is arguably constituted by such a mix of naivety and dangerousness that quixotically affirms, against all odds, the possibility of the impossible. However, we are in agreement with Slavoj Zˇizˇek that <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it is precisely the dimension of impossibility, of the danger of assuming a position in proximity to the void, that is the con- dition of the authentic political act as,</span> in Lacanian terms, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">an encounter with the Real: ‘[t]he point is not that the Real is impossible but rather that the impossible is Real.</span> A trauma, or an act, is simply the point when the Real happens, and this is difficult to accept’ (Zˇizˇek 2004b: 70). The ethos of insecure life that we have elaborated connects with Zˇizˇek’s ‘ethics of the Real’, which is squarely Schmittian in its decisionist emphasis on the act as a radical rupture in the existing space of possibilities that takes the infinite risk of willing the impossible.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Such an ethics of subjectivity clearly runs against today’s mainstream narratives of globalisation, in which the very subject, who is consecrated as the foundational figure of the ‘post-statist’ cosmopolitan order, simultaneously becomes epiphenomenal to global processes, flows and forces which are granted the status of objective reality, to which one must adapt one’s existence. In this regime of objective necessity, which</span> arguably <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">marks the final stage of the proverbial ‘decentring of the subject’, the success of existential decisionism is only think- able in terms of a miracle, which of course is the theological correlate of a Schmittian decision</span>. And yet, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">perhaps a certain belief in miracles is precisely what is lacking in today’s critical thought: [t]he truly traumatic thing is that miracles</span> – not in the religious sense but in the sense of free acts – <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">do happen, but it’s very difficult to come to terms with them. [The] Real is not this kind of thing-in-itself that we cannot approach; the Real is</span>, rather, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">freedom as a radical cut in the texture of reality. </span>(ibid.: 166) <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Perhaps, then, the contemporary importance of Schmitt lies precisely in this affirmation of freedom as the infinite risk of decision that breaks out of the exist- ing coordinates of the possible, with nothing but the void to guide one’s orienta- tion to the future.</span> Our argument has sought to demonstrate the possibility of reading Schmitt as an ethical thinker who sought to <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">affirm life in the disenchanting condition of nihilism, rather than as a war-mongering ‘conservative revolutionary’, relying on the combination of violence and traditionalist mythology to challenge the bourgeois routinisation of life. Such a</span> deconstructed Schmittian <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">approach is</span> arguably <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a productive intervention into the poststructuralist dis- course, an approach that offers an alternative to the influential Derridean resolu- tion of the question of a ‘postmodern ethics’, which also operates with the central concepts of decision and alterity</span>. In contrast to the deconstructionist insistence on undecidability and hence the impossibility of every decision, which leads it into an ethical impasse, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">our approach connects with Zizek’s recent reaffirmation of decisionism in conceiving of undecidability as the instance of radical negativity that is simultaneously the condition of possibility of every political act</span> (see Zˇizˇek 2004a; cf. Prozorov 2005). The reading of Schmitt espoused in this chapter, has admittedly privileged the disturbing and destabilising force of Schmitt’s existential decisionism rather than his well-known personal preference for the stability of any order, once it is formed in an act of exception. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The possibly un-Schmittian effects that Schmitt’s conception of the political may induce in its ethical reconstruction testify to the demonic force of the borderline concepts of decision, exception and sovereignty that turn against their creator, for ever to haunt any valorisation of security and stability</span>. Gilles Deleuze once wrote that his practice of philosophical reading consisted in ‘taking an author from behind and giving him a child that would be his own offspring, yet monstrous’ (Deleuze cited in Zˇizˇek 2004a: 46). In the case of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Schmitt, for all the ‘groans and protests’, it is arguably his own mischievous offspring of ontological extremism that takes incestuous frivolities with the father of political realism.</span>



==Strategies:== 

===GEORGETOWN=== 

Round 2 vs. Queer Body (Bronx Law LR) NEG
1NC : T, Cede the Political K, Race K, Counter-advocacy
2NR: T, Cede the Political

Round 4 vs. DSCOVR (Centennial HK) NEG
1NC: Coercion DA, SKFTA, Space Mil, T substantial, ASPEC
2NR: Coercion

Round 6 vs. Asteroids (Westminster PP) AFF
1NC: Astropolitik K, Space mil, Politics, Coercion DA
2NR: Asterpolitik K

===CAPITOL=== 
Round 2 vs Hypotesting (University BH?) AFF
2nr: Schmitt + Debris

Round 4 vs DSCOVR (Mcdunough nr?) AFF
2NR: Security

Round 6 vs Colonize Venus - cloud city (Broad Run CM) NEG
2NR: Russia CP + Jobs da

===JV Glenbrooks (Different partnerships - these are AJ's 2nrs, he was in Bronx MN)=== 
Round 1 vs Niles North (Sps) NEG
1nc: Debris DA, Schmitt, Privitization, weaponization da, case
2nc: schmitt, weaponization da
1nr: case, warming co2 turn
2nr: Schmitt + warming CO2 agriculture turn

Round 3 vs Mountain Brook (Sps) NEG
1nc: Schmitt, China bashing, weaponization da, case
2nc: warming/co2 agriculture turn, schmitt
1nr: China bashing, case
2nr: China bashing + case

Round 6 vs Hooch (nanosats) NEG
1nc: security k, weaponization da, china bashing, extra T, case
2nc: Security K
1nr: China bashing, case?
2nr: Security k


===Ridge (Partners with Aaron Tam)=== 
Round 1 vs Newark Science - Satellite hardening NEG
1NC: Schmitt, Debris, Weaponization, Payroll Tax Politics,
2NR: Schmitt
Round 3 vs Lex - SPS AFF
1NC: Schmitt, Weaponization, Payroll Tax Cuts, OSTP Recommendations CP. Debris as a case turn
2NR: Weaponization + Case (debris turn + defense)

Round 5 vs East Side – Cosmopolitanism/Environmental Satellites NEG

1NC: enviro coop cp, debris, payroll tax cuts, Prolif/terror impact turns
2NR: CP, Debris

===Blake (With ATAM)=== 
Round 1 vs Niles North (SPS heg + warming)
PTC Politics (2nr)
Militarization DA
Schmitt k
OSTP Recommends CP (2nr)
T - human

Round 4 vs Iowa City West (Satellite Hardening)
PTC Politics
Schmitt K (2nr)
debris da
Other stuff, don't remember right now, probs t human

Round 5 vs GBN (ASATS)
ostp recommends cp (2nr)
ptc politics (2nr)
security k
militarization da
debris da

Round 7 vs Niles West (SPS)
T-Human (2nr)
ptc politics
ostp recommends cp
schmitt k (see a pattern?)
militarization da
impact turns on case


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]