[[toc]]
=...Affirmative= 
==1AC Berkeley== 
===**Houston, We Have a Problem**=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">There is no current US government planned mission to Mars</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mars to Stay, 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Marstostay.com (Mars to Stay, “Why isn’t it being done?”, http://www.marstostay.com/#/why-isnt-it-being-done/4545841259)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">But sadly people would rather … Apollo missions of the 1960’s</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>


**NASA’s 2012 budget has constrained it from long-term exploration and R&D.**
**Grueber & Studt 2011**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Martin Grueber, Research Leader, Battelle and Tim Studt, Editor-in-Chief, Advantage Business Media; R&D Magazine: “2012 Global R&D Funding Forecast: FY 2012 U.S. Federal R&D Funding: Continued Constraints”; December 16, 2011; <span style="color: #007ca5; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.rdmag.com/Featured-Articles/2011/12/2012-Global-RD-Funding-Forecast-FY-2012-US-Federal-RD-Funding-Continued-Constraints/]]</span>) </span>
__The total NASA budget, and … in at least five years.__

===**__Plan Text:__**=== 
**And thus, the plan -** 
**Text: The United States federal government should provide resources to NASA necessary for the development and deployment of space-based nuclear power, including human missions to Mars.**

===**Infinity & Beyond**=== 
**Initially note extinction is inevitable absent space colonization**
**Sandberg, Matheny, and** **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Ć</span>****irkovi****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">ć</span>****, 2008**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Anders, Ph.D, computational neuroscience. Jason, Ph.D in Health Economics. Milan, Senior Research Associate at the Astronomical Observatory of Belgrade and Assistant Professor of the Department of Physics at the University of Novi Sad in Serbia and Montenegro. September 9. Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. “How can we reduce the risk of human extinction?” http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/how-can-we-reduce-the-risk-of-human-extinction)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The facts are sobering. More than</span>...__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the survival of the species."</span>__


**Nuclear power is critical to deep-space exploration and colonization of Mars**
**Clark 2k**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Staff Writer at Space.com, May 21, “Will Nuclear Power Put Humans on Mars,” http://www.space.com/scienceastronomy/solarsystem/nuclearmars_000521.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The next evolutionary step in</span>...__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">moon, Mars and planets beyond."</span>__


**Solar power is insufficient – nuclear power is key**
**Lemos 7** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">independent technology and science journalist (Robert, 9/20, “Space Industry Wants Nuke Power, but Public Fear Persists,” http://www.wired.com/print/science/space/news/2007/09/space_nukes)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Nuclear propulsion encompasses any technology</span>...__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">scientific data than other technologies.”</span>__


**Plutonium shortages are crippling any efforts to advance nuclear propulsion – federal action is necessary to reverse this**
**Berger 8**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Brian. Space News Science Writer. March 6. “Plutonium shortage may thwart future NASA missions to outer planets.” http://www.space.com/news/080306-nasa-plutonium-shortage-fin.html</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">NASA is facing the prospect</span>__...__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">an undesirable position of vulnerability.</span>__


**Valuing human survival does not mean devaluing other moral concerns**
**Matheny, 11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jason Gaverick, research associate with the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, “Ought we worry about human extinction?”,[[http://jgmatheny.org/extinctionethics.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">This paper supports Parfit’s conclusion</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">long enough to colonize space.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Over-abstraction in low water level regions causes destructive exploitation of groundwater and water tables on Earth.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">EEA No Date Given</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(European Environment Agency; Water Resources: “Impacts due to over-abstraction”; [[http://www.eea.europa.eu/themes/water/water-resources/impacts-due-to-over-abstraction]]) </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Water availability problems … facing overexploitation problems (</span><span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.mma.es/portal/secciones/acm/fondo_docu_descargas/libro_blanco/|MIMAM, 2000]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">). </span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Groundwater exploitation destroys coastal ecosystems</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">NRHP 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(National River Health Program; E N V I R O N M E N T A L F L O W S I N I T I A T I V E T E C H N I C A L R E P O R T: “ Environmental Water Requirements to Maintain Groundwater Dependent Ecosystem”; Copyright 2001; Author: Sinclair Knight Merz; [[http://www.environment.gov.au/water/publications/environmental/rivers/nrhp/pubs/groundwater.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">2.2.3 Estuarine and near shore … marine communities being smothered. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">And coastal ecosystems are critical to overall biodiversity</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Burke et al 1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12px;"> (Coastal Ecosystems: Lauretta Burke, Yumiko Kura, Ken Kassem, Carmen Revenga, Mark Spalding, and Don McAllister, Pilot Analysis of Global Ecosystems: Coastal Ecosystems, World Resources Institute, Washington D.C.; April 2001; [[http://pdf.wri.org/page_coastal.pdf]]) </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Coastal and marine … have yet to be realized. </span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Biodiversity is key to check extinction</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Watson 6 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Captain Paul, Founder and President of Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, has a show on Animal Planet, Last Mod 9-17, http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The facts are clear… of massive human destruction.</span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Water has been discovered on Mars and can play a critical role in a shift away from water exploitation</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Chavis 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Jason C. Chavis, Senior Writer at Bright Hub; Bright Hub: “Are We Alone? How Water On Mars Can Help Us Find Out; August 31, 2011; [[http://www.brighthub.com/science/space/articles/124174.aspx]]) </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The search for water … on science fiction at this time. </span>

===**__Solvency__**=== 
**US stewardship is key to avert extinction (Only the US can lead a successful venture to the desolate Mars and bring fruitful results—ending extinction)**
**Oberg 99**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Space Writer and former Space Flight Engineer (James, Space Power Theory, http://www.jamesoberg.com/books/spt/new-CHAPTERSw_figs.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> We have the great gift</span>...__<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 10pt;">of more than our country.</span>__


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Tech is feasible now – talking about future action hinders what we can do today. Must at least solve the idea of exploration.</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Austen 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(Ben, a contributing editor of Harper's Magazine; March 2011; Popular Science Magazine: “AFTER EARTH: Why? Where? How? When?”; [[http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet]]) </span>

__<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">None of the threats we...</span>__<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;">a readiness to leave immediately. </span>


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Attempts to colonize the Moon are insufficient, we must reach Mars in order to access untapped resources and create a sustainable civilization (We cannot shoot for the Moon. Mars is the one and only saving grace for this doomed planet to form new life and civilizations)
Zubrin 96</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (former Chairman of the National Space Society, and President of the Mars Society, Robert, //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Ad Astra</span>//, “The Case for Colonizing Mars,” July/August, <span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-size: 14.0pt; mso-bidi-font-style: italic; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">[[http://nss.org/settlement/mars/zubrin-colonize.html]]</span>) </span>

<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;">Among extraterrestrial bodies in our...</span>__<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">to grow crops for export. </span>__


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">And we must be willing to accept that just as in any new exploration, there will be failures and death. But only through the pursuit of Mars and the acceptance of this fact can we reify the “give us liberty or give us death” sentiment that is now lost. Only then will we truly create the possibility for expansion.</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Burke 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (Ray, MSc from University College London – The Mars Society Member - former Arts and Humanities Channel Manager at Helium.com; May 25, 2010; “Going to Mars”; [[http://www.helium.com/items/1843314-going-to-mars-what-if-astronauts-die?page=1]]) </span>

__<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">There are always arguments as...</span>__**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Mars awaits its new life</span><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>__**


===<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">The Aff Comes First</span></span>=== 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Prioritizing war over environmental destruction is regressive – only a new ethic of environmental concern can solve</span>**


**Kendall 92**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (11/19/92, Henry W., former chair of the Union of Concerned Scientists; “World Scientists' Warning to Humanity”,[[http://www.worldtrans.org/whole/warning.html]]) </span>
__<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Human beings and the natural...</span>__<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;">join us in this task. </span>


<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Environmental degradation makes extinction inevitable.</span>**</span>


<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Kangas 94, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Steve, editor of Liberalism Resurgent, The environment heals slowly -- we are destroying it rapidly. </span>
</span>
__<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">There are <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">two types of...</span></span>____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">damage will inevitably become permanent.</span>__



**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Space exploration is inherently linked with positive environmental benefits – plan is a step towards a new-found environmentalism.</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Cockell et al. 2 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">( Charles Cockell a,b, *, Don White c , Douglas Messier d , M. Dale Stokes e a Earth and Space Foundation, 86 Catharine Street, CB1 3AR Cambridge, UK b Earth and Space Foundation, Mountain View, CA, USA c Earthtrust, 25 Kaneohe Bay Drive, Suite 205, Kailua, HI 96734, USA d 1400 South Joyce Street, Arlington, VA 22202, USA e Marine Physical Laboratory, 0238, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 8820 Shellback Way, La Jolla, CA 92037, US; Earth and Space Foundation; Space Policy 18 (2002) 301–306: “ Fostering links between environmental and space exploration: the Earth and Space Foundation”; [[http://www.mpl.ucsd.edu/people/gdeane/outreach/pub.pdfs/earht_and_space.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;">The community that focuses its...</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-language: EN-US;">for a by spacefaring civilization.</span>__</span>**

==1AC GBX== 

===**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> Inherency</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">1. There is no current US government planned mission to Mars</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Mars to Stay, 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Marstostay.com (Mars to Stay, “Why isn’t it being done?”, http://www.marstostay.com/#/why-isnt-it-being-done/4545841259)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">But sadly people would … Apollo missions of the 1960’s.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Text: The United States federal government should provide the necessary support for the deployment of manned missions to Mars.</span>**

===**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Infinity & Beyond</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">2. Numerous credible existential threats to the planet – resource depletion, disease, droughts, famine, climate change, asteroid strikes </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> Popular Science 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Ben Austen; March, “After Earth: Why? Where? How? When?” p. 46, Vol. 278, No. 3)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Earth won't always be … the Earth than on it."</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">3. Every second we delay expansion costs 10 to the thirty-first power lives</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> Bostrom 3</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">(Nick, Director of Future of Humanity Institute and Faculty of Philosophy & James Martin 21st Century School at Oxford University, 2003, Is Cosmology Relevant to Transhumanism</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">? </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Suns are illuminating and … human lives per second.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">For the science, for the challenge, and for the future of all life on Earth, a Mars mission must be attempted. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Zubrin 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Robert, former Chairman of the National Space Society, and President of the Mars Society; __The Case for Mars: The Plan to Settle the Red Planet and Why We Must__; 2011; [[http://io9.com/5812255/the-case-for-mars-the-plan-to-settle-the-red-planet-and-why-we-must]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Where there is no … Let's do it. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">3. Valuing human survival does not mean devaluing other moral concerns</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Matheny, 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Jason Gaverick, research associate with the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, “Ought we worry about human extinction?”,[[http://jgmatheny.org/extinctionethics.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">This paper supports … enough to colonize space.</span>

===**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">In Bad Waters</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">4. Over-abstraction in low water level regions causes destructive exploitation of groundwater and water tables on Earth.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">EEA No Date Given</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(European Environment Agency; Water Resources: “Impacts due to over-abstraction”; [[http://www.eea.europa.eu/themes/water/water-resources/impacts-due-to-over-abstraction]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Water availability problems … facing overexploitation problems (<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.mma.es/portal/secciones/acm/fondo_docu_descargas/libro_blanco/|MIMAM, 2000]]</span>). </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">5. Groundwater exploitation destroys coastal ecosystems</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">NRHP 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(National River Health Program; E N V I R O N M E N T A L F L O W S I N I T I A T I V E T E C H N I C A L R E P O R T: “ Environmental Water Requirements to Maintain Groundwater Dependent Ecosystem”; Copyright 2001; Author: Sinclair Knight Merz; [[http://www.environment.gov.au/water/publications/environmental/rivers/nrhp/pubs/groundwater.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">2.2.3 Estuarine and near shore … marine communities being smothered. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">And coastal ecosystems are critical to overall biodiversity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Burke et al 1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12px;"> (Coastal Ecosystems: Lauretta Burke, Yumiko Kura, Ken Kassem, Carmen Revenga, Mark Spalding, and Don McAllister, Pilot Analysis of Global Ecosystems: Coastal Ecosystems, World Resources Institute, Washington D.C.; April 2001; [[http://pdf.wri.org/page_coastal.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Coastal and marine … have yet to be realized. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Biodiversity is key to check extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Watson 6 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Captain Paul, Founder and President of Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, has a show on Animal Planet, Last Mod 9-17, http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The facts are clear… of massive human destruction.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Water has been discovered on mars and can play a critical role in a shift away from water exploitation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Chavis 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Jason C. Chavis, Senior Writer at Bright Hub; Bright Hub: “Are We Alone? How Water On Mars Can Help Us Find Out; August 31, 2011; [[http://www.brighthub.com/science/space/articles/124174.aspx]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The search for water … on science fiction at this time. </span>


===**__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Solvency: </span>__**=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">US stewardship is key to avert extinction</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> Oberg 99</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Space Writer and former Space Flight Engineer (James, Space Power Theory, http://www.jamesoberg.com/books/spt/new-CHAPTERSw_figs.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">We have the great gift … more than our country.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">12. Tech is feasible now – talking about future action hinders what we can do today. Must at least solve the idea of exploration</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Austen 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Ben, a contributing editor of Harper's Magazine; March 2011; Popular Science Magazine: “AFTER EARTH: Why? Where? How? When?”; [[http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">None of the threats … readiness to leave immediately. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Attempts to colonize the Moon are insufficient, we must reach Mars in order to access untapped resources and create a sustainable civilization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Zubrin 96 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(former Chairman of the National Space Society, and President of the Mars Society, Robert, //Ad Astra//, “The Case for Colonizing Mars,” July/August, [[http://nss.org/settlement/mars/zubrin-colonize.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Among extraterrestrial bodies … grow crops for export. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">And we must be willing to accept that just as in any new exploration, there will be failures and death. But only through the pursuit of Mars and the acceptance of this fact can we reify the “give us liberty or give us death” sentiment that is now lost. Only then will we truly create the possibility for expansion. ( we do not condone the gendered discourse in this article)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Burke 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Ray, MSc from University College London – The Mars Society Member - former Arts and Humanities Channel Manager at Helium.com; May 25, 2010; “Going to Mars”; [[http://www.helium.com/items/1843314-going-to-mars-what-if-astronauts-die?page=1]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">There are always … awaits its new life. </span>

===**__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Impact Framing</span>__**=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">No risk of nuclear war – deterrence checks</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Walsh 85</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Lieutenant colonel in Air Force, Edward, “Nuclear War Opposing Viewpoints, p. 48</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The most difficult keynote … unfeasible and untenable technically. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Even irrational leaders understand a nuclear war would be devastating – no risk of war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Rauchhaus</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">9 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Robert, Department of Political Science University of California </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Sage Journals, “Evaluating the Nuclear Peace Hypothesis: A Quantitative Approach” 2/5/2009 </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://jcr.sagepub.com/content/53/2/258.full.pdf+html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Lockwood]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">From the early days of … a rather unambiguous prediction.8</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">And even if it did occur, global nuclear war kills less than one billion people – no risk of extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Martin 82</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Brian, Professor of Social Sciences in the School of Social Sciences, Media and Communication at the University of Wollongong and a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modeling, former faculty at the Department of Math and Science at the Australian National University, “The global health effects of nuclear war” [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82cab/index.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">A major global nuclear … ozone, climate and fires.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Prioritizing war over environmental destruction is regressive – only a new ethic of environmental concern can solve</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Kendall 92</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (11/19/92, Henry W., former chair of the Union of Concerned Scientists; “World Scientists' Warning to Humanity”,[[http://www.worldtrans.org/whole/warning.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Human beings and the … us in this task. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Environmental degradation makes extinction inevitable.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Kangas 94, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Steve, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">editor of Liberalism Resurgent, The environment heals slowly -- we are destroying it rapidly.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">There are two types … inevitably become permanent. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Space exploration is inherently linked with positive environmental benefits – plan is a step towards a new-found environmentalism.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Cockell et al. 2 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">( Charles Cockell a,b, *, Don White c , Douglas Messier d , M. Dale Stokes e a Earth and Space Foundation, 86 Catharine Street, CB1 3AR Cambridge, UK b Earth and Space Foundation, Mountain View, CA, USA c Earthtrust, 25 Kaneohe Bay Drive, Suite 205, Kailua, HI 96734, USA d 1400 South Joyce Street, Arlington, VA 22202, USA e Marine Physical Laboratory, 0238, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 8820 Shellback Way, La Jolla, CA 92037, US; Earth and Space Foundation; Space Policy 18 (2002) 301–306: “ Fostering links between environmental and space exploration: the Earth and Space Foundation”; [[http://www.mpl.ucsd.edu/people/gdeane/outreach/pub.pdfs/earht_and_space.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The community that focuses … by spacefaring civilization. </span>
== == 
==1AC Greenhill== 

===1ac - Inherency=== 
**Contention 1 is Inherency –**

**Operationally Responsive Space is critical for rapid launch capabilities, development, and response to security threats through timely responses.**
**Fiscal Year Budget for 2012 02/11** (Conressional FY 2012 Budget, Unclassified release of Operationally Responsive Space Expenditures; February 2011; pg.11; [[http://www.js.pentagon.mil/descriptivesum/Y2012/AirForce/0604857F_4_PB_2012.pdf]])

A. Mission Description and Budget Item Justification … Integrated Defense Autonomous Systems (LEONIDAS) program.


**Current ORS is inadequately funded---the plan is key to its success.**
**Peel 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- </span>Lt Col, USAF (Scott D., October 30, “Fixing the Nation’s Space Launch Woes: Operationally Responsive Space for Tomorrow’s Joint Force Commander—Panacea or Pipedream”, Naval War College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/docs/citations/ADA494381]],)

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Finally, to be successful, ORS requires … upon the military services to incorporate JFC requirements. </span>

===1ac – Plan=== 

Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space through the United States Department of Defense.



===1ac - Deterrence=== 


**Contention 2 - Deterrence**

**Current vulnerabilities in US space assets are the Achilles heel of deterrence – multiple adversaries with different military doctrines invite attack**
**<span style="color: black;">Rendleman, 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - </span>Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese … to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.


**Multiple adversaries will use space as an asymmetric means to destroy US hegemony – deterrence by punishment will fail**
**<span style="color: black;">Rendleman, 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - </span>Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

The strategy to deter nuclear attack worked throughout … particularly against kinetic-kill ASATs and jammers.


**Chinese doctrine, spending, and actions all portend an attack on US space assets - it will likely escalate**
**Wortzel, 8** - Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY
AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science)

The PLA is exploring in theoretical research, … have access to space in any future conflict<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>



**The risk of crisis instability and miscalculation in space is high – the PLA is likely to initiate an attack in a crisis**
**MacDonald, 11** - Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)

One characteristic of too many wars in … space instability seems high and likely to grow.


**That risks miscalc and nuclear escalation**
**<span style="color: black;">Burke, 6</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – </span>Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]])

The erosion of the US ability to execute … with US satellites without fear of retribution<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.57 </span>


**A firm commitment to ORS is vital to credible deterrence by denial – it will prevent attacks against US space assets**
**Sejba, 10** - USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “ Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, High Frontier, May, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]])

__The space domain,__ often referred to as … be just as important to future combat operations.


===1ac – Development=== 

**Contention 3 – Development**

**High launch costs inhibit commercial space development**
**Coppersmith, 10** – <span style="color: black;">historian of technology at Texas A&M University</span> (Jonathan, The Space Review, “Obama in space: bold but not bold enough,” 4/12, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1603/1]]

Lost in the attention given to ending shuttle … create vast economic as well as scientific opportunities.


**Government demand for reconstitution of small satellite constellations is vital to capitalizing the entire aerospace and commercial industrial base**
**<span style="color: black;">Rendleman, 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - </span>Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

Given the importance of a responsive space infrastructure … a vital part of a space assurance strategy.


**This stimulates commercial launch markets and substantially lowers launch costs**
**<span style="color: black;">Colón</span>****<span style="color: #101010;">, 10</span>**<span style="color: #101010;"> - </span><span style="color: black;">Lt Col, USAF, former </span>Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral AFS, <span style="color: black;">served as the deputy commander 595th Space Group responsible for the operational testing of space and missile weapon systems until leaving for his present assignment at the Air War College (Miguel, “DETERRENCE 2035 –THE ROLE OF TRANSPARENCY AND DIVERSITY IN A WORLD OF NANOSATS,” </span>[[https://www.afresearch.org/|https://www.afresearch.org]]<span style="color: black;">)</span>


The book entitled //Complex Deterrence// states that deterrence … dictate not to attack; effectively deterring him.


**Lower launch costs are critical to provide India access to US aerospace markets.**
**Speier 2007** (Richard Speier is a private consultant on nonproliferation and counterproliferation issues. He spent more than 25 years in government at the Office of Management and Budget, the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of the Secretary of Defense, during which he helped negotiate the Missile Technology Control Regime; March; Strategic Studies Institute: “Gauging US-Indian Strategic Cooperation”; http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub755.pdf)

Under the July 18, 2005 joint statement … them to become full partners in its analysis.


**Low cost access to launch abilities is critical to the growth of the Indian space industry**
**Murthi** **et al 07** (K. R. Sridhara Murthi, U. Sankar and H. N. Madhusudhan, respectively Managing Director of Antrix Corporation Ltd, Ph.D. in Economics (Mandras School of Economics), Ph.D. is Economics(Mandras School of Economics), “Organizational systems, commercialization and cost–benefit analysis of Indian space programme”, http://www.ias.ac.in/currsci/dec252007/1812.pdf, Dec 25, 2007 ,6/23/11)

The space launch market is one of those … the significant sources and destination for space commerce.


**Growth causes cooperation – solves South Asian War**
**Mamoon and Murshed, 2010**(Dawood, Netherlands Fellowship holder at the Institute of Social Studies (ISS) in The Hague, where he is reading for a PhD on trade, poverty, inequality and security. He is also a visiting research associate and consultant at the Sustainable Development Policy Institute, Pakistan; S. Mansoob, Professor of the Economics of Conflict and Peace, Institute of Social Studies, the Netherlands; “The conflict mitigating effects of trade in the India-Pakistan case”, Economics of Governance, Vol. 11, No. 2, SpringerLink)

However, <span style="text-decoration: none;">if India is able to export … </span>towards greater democracy with elections in February 2008.


**On the brink now – Kashmiri Uprising**
**Yardle, 2010** (Jim, New York Times, “Seeking Kashmir Peace, India Feels Anger of Residents”, NYT Asia Pacific, 2010, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/22/world/asia/22kashmir.html?pagewanted=1&_r=2)

<span style="text-decoration: none;">For more than 100 days, in which … </span>toward the heavy security presence on the ground.


**Nuclear War**
**Fai, 2000**(Ghulam PhD, Executive Director of the Kashmiri American Council, Business Recorder, 12-17)

India has suffered modest economic sanctions for its … as the most dangerous place on the earth.

===1ac – Solvency=== 
**Contention 4 is Solvency –**

**Offensive deterrence by punishment doesn’t work and will probably fail – ORS is vital to establishing deterrence by denial**
**Sejba, 10** - USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “ Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, High Frontier, May, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]])

Nuclear and Traditional Deterrence Theory – Misapplication When … prized assets);9 and encourage their restraint.


**US must adopt new paradigm of deterrence – one that denies the benefits of an adversary’s target.**
**Cheng 8**People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) view of space: Space shifting from enabler to key battleground. Space characterized as important because it contributes to information dominance; space now described as important in its own right….many in the PLA see space as a likely future arena for conflict.~ Space and PRC National Security,’ Dean Cheng, China specialist, The Heritage Foundation, 8 October 2008.12

The purpose to benefit denial is to convince … intended to augment existing systems for Tier 2<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Expanding ORS will deter attacks against US space assets**
**<span style="color: #101010;">Putman, 9</span>**– USAF Major, operations officer, 328th Weapons Squadron, United States Air Force Weapons School, former chief,
DSCS III Operations duties at the 3rd Space Operations Squadron (Christopher, “Countering the Chinese Threat to Low Earth Orbit Satellites: Building a Defensive Space Strategy”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]) HANE = High Altitude Nuclear Event

The United States has taken some initial steps … U.S. satellites against attack.”58


**The perception of a firm governmental commitment to ORS is vital to stimulating the commercial launch market**
**Felt, 10**- USAF Commander, Space Test Operations Squadron Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB, New Mexico (Eric, “Responsive Space Funding Challenges and Solutions: Avoiding a Tragedy of the Commons,” High Frontier, May, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]])

Industry watching for decisive government leadership, especially … budget resources to actually field significant operational capability<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



=Negative= 
==Rounds- Greenhill== 
|| <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #330099; display: block; font-family: georgia,serif; font-size: 13px;">Round 1:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #330099; display: block; font-family: georgia,serif; font-size: 13px;"> T - increase requires pre-existence</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #330099; display: block; font-family: georgia,serif; font-size: 13px;"> T - development</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #330099; display: block; font-family: georgia,serif; font-size: 13px;"> Militarization DA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #330099; display: block; font-family: georgia,serif; font-size: 13px;"> Astropolitik</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #330099; display: block; font-family: georgia,serif; font-size: 13px;"> Case defense</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #330099; display: block; font-family: georgia,serif; font-size: 13px;"> Round 3:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #330099; display: block; font-family: georgia,serif; font-size: 13px;"> T - increase requires pre-existence</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #330099; display: block; font-family: georgia,serif; font-size: 13px;"> Militarization DA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #330099; display: block; font-family: georgia,serif; font-size: 13px;"> Astropolitik</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #330099; display: block; font-family: georgia,serif; font-size: 13px;"> Case defense</span>

<span style="font-family: georgia,serif;">Round 5 vs. Asteroid detection</span>
<span style="font-family: georgia,serif;">Heidegger</span>
<span style="font-family: georgia,serif;">Case defense</span>
<span style="font-family: georgia,serif;">Russia CP</span>
<span style="font-family: georgia,serif;">Spending DA</span> ||
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
==**Warming Advantage CP**== 
**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should develop and deploy a ground based nanocrystal system through the United States Department of Defense.**

**Nanocrystals solve energy crises and global warming**
**Quanqin Dai, 2010**
(December 10, 2010, [[http://www.hindawi.com/journals/jnm/2011/237050/]], Journal of Nanomaterials, Postdoctoral Research Associate at [[http://www.linkedin.com/company/oak-ridge-national-laboratory?trk=ppro_cprof|Oak Ridge National Laboratory]], Nanocrystals-Related Synthesis, Assembly, and Energy Applications, 9-2-11)
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Fundamental material properties have...</span>__light to chemical energy.__

**Nanocrystals are ready for deployment**
**ScienceDaily 2011**
(April 12, 2011, [[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/04/110411142311.htm]], 'Green Energy' Advance: Tandem Catalysis in Nanocrystal Interfaces, 9-1-11)
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">In a development that</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">in our catalyst design."</span>

==Astropolitik K== 
**“Space” is a social construction. It is an empty canvas where we can project images of warfare or peaceful alternatives. Their representation of space as a battlefield is driven by a worldview where technology guides politics.**
**Bormann, 06** ISA Conference in San Diego, March 22-25, 2006 Panel on ‘Reading Outer Space’ Dr Natalie Bormann Visiting Assistant Professor The Global Security Program Watson Institute Brown UniversityThe Lost Dimension? A Virilian reading of Outer Space Weaponization

<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">To begin with, </span><span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the concept of space..... </span><span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">to ask: what has informed this process? </span>


**Their faith in the ability of technology to provide security reflects a logic of total domination over the planet that renders us all into disposable standing reserve, this risks extinction.**
**Burke, 06** <span style="font-size: 8px;">(Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason 10:2 | </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.library.emory.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2burke.html#copyright|©]]</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> 2007 Anthony Burke War as a Way of Being: Lebanon 2006 (PhD, Anthony Burke was appointed to UNSW@ADFA in February 2008, after three years in the School of Social Sciences and International Studies at UNSW Sydney (2005-7) Theory & Event, Project Muse).</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Bacon thought of the</span>__ ....__<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">obstacles, useful or obstinate matter. </span>__


**Our alternative is to reject the affirmative and their re****presentations of the technological need to securitize s****pace.**

**Representations matter uniquely in the context of their affirmative: allowing discourses of technological inevitability to replace political dialogue creates conditions for a space war****. Re-framing space politics requires challenging the rhetoric used to justify policies.**
**Grondin, 06** David Grondin Assistant Professor, School of Political Studies, University of Ottawa (as of July 2006) Paper presented at the ISA Convention, San Diego March 25, 2006 Panel “Reading Outer Space I: The International Politics of Outer Space - Approaches and Themes” THE (POWER) POLITICS OF SPACE: THE US ASTROPOLITICAL DISCOURSE OF GLOBAL DOMINANCE IN THE WAR ON TERROR

<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Indeed, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">we have no way of knowing</span>__...**__<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">possible, if not inevitable.</span>__**

==SSA CP== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Text: The United States federal government should develop its ground based Space Guard civil space situational awareness.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention One – Counterplan competes via net benefits</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention Two - Solvency</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Counterplan solves and aff can’t – ground-based technology key to SSA</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Weeden 2010 </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Brian, is a technical consultant for the Secure World Foundation and former U.S. Air Force officer with a background in space surveillance and ICBM operations, “Space Situational Awareness Fact Sheet,” http://swfound.org/media/1800/ssa%20fact%20sheet.pdf)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Radars form the backbone of</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">… can create threedimensional maps of space objects.</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Putting more satellites in space increases the risk of accidental interference and conflict</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **Space Security 2011** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Governance Group Gérard, Brachet Institute de l’Air et de l’Espace Peter Hays Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies Dr. Ram Jakhu Institute of Air and Space Law, McGill University William Marshall NASA – Ames Research Center Paul Meyer The Simons Foundation John Siebert Project Ploughshares Dana Smith Foreign Aƒ airs and International Trade Canada Ray Williamson Secure World Foundation Advisory Board Richard DalBello Intelsat General Corporation, Theresa Hitchens United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, Dr. John Logsdon, The George Washington University, Dr. Lucy Stojak, HEC Montréal Project Manager Cesar Jaramillo Project Ploughshares, “Space Security 11”, [[http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2011.revised.pdf]]</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>//
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The increasing globalization of space technology…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> launch capabilities could exacerbate regional tensions.</span>__


**Accidental interference in space escalates and causes extinction**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Mitchell 2001 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(Gordon R., Associate Professor of Communications @ the University of Pittsburgh, “ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence,” No. 6)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The dizzying speed of space warfare</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">… destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Solvency:__ </span>**</span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">US stewardship is key to avert extinction (Only the US can lead a successful venture to the desolate Mars and bring fruitful results—ending extinction)</span>**<span style="mso-fareast-font-family: SimSun;">
</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-size: 14.0pt; mso-bidi-font-style: italic; mso-fareast-font-family: SimSun;">Oberg 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-style: italic; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;"> Space Writer and former Space Flight Engineer (James, Space Power Theory, http://www.jamesoberg.com/books/spt/new-CHAPTERSw_figs.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-font-family: "Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-language: EN-US;">
We have the great gift </span></span>