[[toc]]
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">if you have any questions, comments, or concerns please email me at [[mailto:tmohney29@gmail.com|tmohney29@gmail.com]]</span>
=DSCOVR Affirmative (NDCA)= 
==Inhernecy== 
**NOAA budget problems and lack of a launch vehicle means DSCOVR won’t be launched**
<span class="citechar">**Tracton 12/8**</span> (NOAA satellite system funded, but at what cost? Other important programs may suffer, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/capital-weather-gang/post/noaa-satellite-system-funded-but-at-what-cost-other-important-programs-may-suffer/2011/12/08/gIQAnhpZfO_blog.html]])
<span class="DebateUnderline">After sounding the alarm … </span>one I’m not going to write.

==**Plan: The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.**== 



==ADV 1== 



**They’re coming in 2013**

**Kelly 9/30** (Travis, Grand Junction Free Press Columnist, citing Jimmy Raeder, co-investigator on nASA's ThemIS mission, University of New Hampshire, lso citing NASA and National Academy of Scientists, BA from the University of Texas, MFA from the University of Arizona, TEOTWAWKI: The perfect solar storm, [[http://www.gjfreepress.com/article/20110930/COLUMNISTS/110929950/1021&parentprofile=1062]])
Lately, <span class="DebateUnderline">I've been troubled by a … a potential cascade of meltdowns</span>.

**Default to scientific consensus**

**Roberts 10/13** (Kristal, ABC Action News, Fact or fiction? The hype surrounding solar storms, [[http://www.abc2news.com/dpp/news/science_tech/fact-or-fiction%3F-the-hype-surrounding-solar-storms-wfts1317846662779]])
<span class="DebateUnderline">No power. No lights</span>….<span class="DebateUnderline"> transformers on electric grids.</span>

**Current storms are merely __preludes__ to the “Big One”**

**Billings 1/23** (Lee, science journalist for Popular Mechanics citing John Kappenman, an engineer and expert in geomagnetic storm effects and Bogdan, “The Looming Threat of a Solar Superstorm”, [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/space/deep/the-looming-threat-of-a-solar-superstorm-6643435]] EG)
Flares and CMEs <span class="DebateUnderline">… $2 trillion in the first year alone. </span>


**But current space weather monitoring relies on aging warning systems – only DSCOVR solves**

**<span class="citechar">Billings 1/23</span>** (Lee, Science journalist. His articles on the science and policy behind breakthrough work in astronomy, planetary science, astrophysics, and cosmology have appeared in publications such as Nature, New Scientist, Popular Mechanics, and Seed magazine. In February 2011, to coincide with the announcement of major discoveries from NASA’s planet-hunting Kepler mission, Lee was invited to contribute to BoingBoing.net. His blog posts over a two-week period accumulated around 350 on-site comments, delivered hundreds of thousands of page views, and spawned spin-off coverage in a host of other venues, including the Daily Mail, Wired Science, MSNBC.com, New Hampshire Public Radio, and NASA’s official Kepler homepage. From January 2006 to March 2011, Lee was a writer and editor for Seed magazine, where he produced content noted by outlets such as The New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Washington Post, and Slate.com., The Looming Threat of a Solar Superstorm, [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/space/deep/the-looming-threat-of-a-solar-superstorm-6643435]])
<span class="DebateUnderline">Until new layers of …</span>and the Sun continues to seethe<span class="DebateUnderline">. </span>

**ACE will be overwhelmed during the storm**

**Brooks** 9 (Michael, PhD in quantum physics, Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe, March 23)

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">By far the most …</span>
lose the early warning capability.


**We control the direction of every impact – if we aren’t ready when the storm hits, catastrophe is inevitable**
**Kappenman 12** (John Kappenman is an engineer and a leading expert on the disastrous consequences a severe geomagnetic storm could have on the electrical infrastructure. He has studied storms for more than 30 years. He frequently testifies before Congress and advises U.S. government panels on the topic, “A Perfect Storm of Planetary Proportions”, February, http://spectrum.ieee.org/energy/the-smarter-grid/a-perfect-storm-of-planetary-proportions/0 EG)

**L**<span class="DebateUnderline">uminous fingers of …</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">from the worst Earth has seen.</span>



**Solar storms causes global meltdowns**

**<span class="citechar">International Business Times 11</span> (**Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm]])
NaturalNews) <span class="DebateUnderline">Forget about the 2012 Mayan …</span>the real world.




**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meltdowns cause extinction</span>**

<span class="citechar">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">International Business Times 11</span>**</span> (Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm]])

But <span class="DebateUnderline">the real kicker in all …</span>fraction of the total population.



**Only reliable early warning allows us to weather the impact of a solar flare**

**<span class="citechar">Njakara and Marusek 12</span>** (Zarko, Writer at Deputy-CIO and James A., retired U.S. Department of the Navy nuclear physicist and engineer and a contributor to Paradigms and Demographics, A Perfect Solar Storm Could Surpass Worst Y2K Predictions, [[http://deputycio.com/2695/a-perfect-solar-storm-could-surpass-worst-y2k-predictions]])

Possible Protection from …<span style="font-size: 9pt;">don’t give them your money.</span>

==Adv 2 – DOD effectiveness== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">U.S. satellite assets are going dark. New U.S. climate satellites are critical to shape DOD national security objectives in the Artic or Himalayas. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Center for A New American Security</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, July 2011“Blinded: The Decline of U.S. Earth Monitoring Capabilities and Its Consequences for National Security pg. online</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Networks of satellites, …over how they share water. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">All other satellites and climate models are __useless__ without DSCOVR’s albedo information</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Williams 08</span>** (12-28-2008, Trevor Williams, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD, Bring Back DSCOVR!, greenmuze.com) [[http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html%20G.H|http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html G.H]].)
Obama’s first presidential…<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> can complete her mission.</span>

3 Scenarios
Scenario 1 – Arctic Conflict
**Satellites are key to solve arctic war and food crisis**

**Parthemore and Rogers 11 (**Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security and Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) (Christine and Will, “BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY,” August 1, Center for New American Security, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The emerging gaps in…</span> are prone to greater instability.


**Arctic competition escalates to nuclear war**

**Staples**<span style="font-size: 16pt;"> 9</span> (Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, [[http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf]], p. 5-6)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The fact is, the Arctic …or use of nuclear weapons.”</span>

**Food insecurity = WWIII**
Calvin in ‘98
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William, Theoretical Neurophysicist, The Atlantic Monthly, “The great climate flip-flop”, January, Volume 281, Issue 1, Proquest)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The population-crash… from the North Atlantic. </span>

Scenario 2 – Himalyan Glaciers
= = 
**Environmental monitoring key to prevent Indo-Pak water tensions and South China Sea conflicts over receding Himalayan Glaciers**

**Parthemore and Rogers 11** (Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security and Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) (Christine and Will, “BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY,” August 1, Center for New American Security, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States depends on …with non-proliferation treaties. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">War over water is most likely scenario for Indo-Pak conflict</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Polgreen and Tavernise 10</span>** (South Asia correspondent for The New York Times, based in New Delhi and NYT Staff Writer (Lydia and Sabrina, “Water Disputes Increases India-Pakistan Tension,” July 20, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/21/world/asia/21kashmir.html?adxnnl=1&adxnnlx=1313875086-bs3cbbpTrRawxTMk%20SyDqA&pagewanted=1]])
BANDIPORE, Kashmir — In <span style="font-size: 12pt;">this high Himalayan… , Pakistani officials say. </span>

**Causes global nuclear winter**
**Fai** in ’0**1** (Ghulam Nabi, Kashmiri American Council, The Washington Times, “The most dangerous place”, July 8, L/N)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The foreign policy of the… </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>would enjoy no sanctuary<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Major powers get drawn in**
**Caldicott** in ’0**2** (Helen, Founder of Physicians for Social Responsibility and Nominee for the Nobel Peace Prize, “The New Nuclear Danger: George W. Bush’s Military-Industrial Complex”, p. xiii)

The use of Pakistani nuclear… end of most life on earth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The war will escalate to Sino-US nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Malik ‘3 (Mohan, Professor of Security Studies at the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies, Parameters, “The China factor in the India-Pakistan conflict”, Volume 33, Issue 1, Spring, Proquest)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One Chinese national security analyst… soft underbelly-Tibet and Xinjiang. </span>



**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Straits Times 2K (The Straits Times (Singapore), “No one gains in war over Taiwan”, June 25, L/N)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE high-intensity scenario… sovereignty above everything else.</span>


Scenario 3 - Peacekeeping

**Satellites imagery is a __pre-requisite__ to effective and benign humanitarian interventions**

**Bjorgo et al 08** (Einar, Head of Rapid Mapping, Applications and User Relations; Francesco Pisano (francesco. pisano@unosat.org) is Head, Institutional Affairs; Joshua Lyons (joshua.lyons@unosat.org) is GIS Analyst; and Holger Heisig (holger. heisig@unosat.org) is GIS Analyst, UNOSAT, Satellite imagery in use, Issue 31, October 08)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In recent years the international… </span>crises or conflict situations.


International peacekeeping is key to prevent failed states.
Young, 2005
[Jeffrey, 10/31, VOA News. http://voanews.com/english/archive/2005-10/2005-10-31-voa25.cfm]
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">When a failed state’s problems</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">governance since the intervention</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">,” he says.</span>

State failure causes terrorism.
Williamson, 2007
[Richard, Spring/Winter, Former Assistant Sec. State for Int’l. Org. Affairs. “Nation-Building: The Dangers of Weak, Failing, and Failed States,” Whitehead Journal of Diplomacy and International Affairs 8:1, http://diplomacy.shu.edu/academics/journal/resources/journal_dip_pdfs/journal_of_diplomacy_vol8_no1/02-Williamson.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Weak,</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">failing, and failed …</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> destruction and death onto our homeland. </span>





==Adv 3 Solvency== 

**DSCOVR is the keystone – without it, accuracy of every remote sensing system is compromised**

**Donahue 11** (Bill, Reporter for PopSci, 4/06/11, Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory? April 6, [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite]])
Meanwhile, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Earth-observing…</span> DSCOVR remained in storage.


=GPS III Aff= 
==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention one Is inherency </span>**== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Supercommitee failure guarantees GPS funding cuts – Reducing constellation size below critical thresholds.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Divis 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (“Looming Budget Hurricane Could Swamp the GPS Landscape,” Inside GNSS, Dee Ann Divis, assistant managing news editor of the Washington Examiner, September/October 2011, </span>[[http://www.insidegnss.com/node/2753|__http://www.insidegnss.com/node/2753__]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">What **__the automatic ….__** of its new capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">And, GPS needs to maintain at least 24 satellites for maximum efficiency – Unfortunately any delay puts the constellation at 17 which would gut the commercial sector and undermine national security.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">GAO 10 </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9.5pt;">(“</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9.5pt;">Global Positioning System: Challenges in Sustaining and Upgrading Capabilities Persist,” Report to the Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of Representatives, Government Accounting Office, September 2010, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10636.pdf)</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">To ensure</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that the </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">fiscal year 2018.</span>
==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Text: The Department of Defense should implement a fully interoperable Global Positioning System III beyond the earth’s mesosphere.</span>**== 




==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt;">Advantage One: Hegemony</span>**== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt;">Scenario One: Security</span>**

**GPS is key to force enhancement of every aspect of the military**.
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Denmark and Mulvenon 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> *Fellow at Center for New American Security **Vice-President of Defense Group Inc.’s Intelligence Division and Director of DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis “The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World” http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS%20Contested%20Commons_1.pdf**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">As a global common…</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">deploying space systems.</span>**





<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">And, Jamming coming now – North Korea, Iran, Lebanon, Syria, Russia</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Jersusalem Post 11/18</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (Yaakov Katz, November 18, 2011, “Security and Defense: In a jam over precision munitions”,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[[http://www.jpost.com/Features/FrontLines/Article.aspx?id=246026]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">)</span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In March, one of the … can cover a large area,” Last said.</span>**



Plan is key to counter challenging rises to leadership**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Grimes 08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[John, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration and Department of Defense Chief Information Officer , “GPS 08 a DOD report to congress” http://www.docstoc.com/docs/45505747/Global-Positioning-System-_GPS_-2008]</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The continued …funding throughout their lifecycles.</span>**




And, Maintaining current security is key to avoiding possible global conflict.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Robert Kagan, 2007 senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> [“End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, web)</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">This is a good thing, and </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">….</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">involvement will provide an easier path.</span>**




<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Scenario Two: Disaster Relief</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">GPS is key to disaster relief.</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wussler 08</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (“Global Positioning Systems: Space-Based PNT for Today and Tomorrow,” Col. Donald E., Vice Commander Global Positioning Systems Wing, Los Angeles AFB, High Frontier, the Journal for Space & Missile Professionals, May 2008,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080522-087.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">)</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In addition to …__provided by GPS.__</span>**



<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">That’s the best internal link to soft power.</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Jones 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> - Fifteen years editorial experience in newspapers and magazines and another fifteen as a college professor. He regularly teaches a class in foreign policy, and he has written a book, several book chapters and encyclopedia entries on elements of warfare and its relation to foreign policy and social change (Jones, “Soft power in U.S. Foreign Policy,” 2011,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[[http://usforeignpolicy.about.com/od/introtoforeignpolicy/a/Soft-Power-In-U-S-Foreign-Policy.htm]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, CJC)</span>**

**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The classic example of </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">….in the Horn of Africa.</span>**




US power backed by prestige solves any risk of conflict.
Maethner 2007**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">[Lt Col Scott R., Chief of Strategy, Doctrine, and Policy AFSPC, “Achilles’ Heel: Space and Information Power in the 21st Century,” http://www.schriever.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-070906-082.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">Finally, the third element of </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">….</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">both its prestige and power.</span>



==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Advantage Two: Environment</span>**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario One: Agriculture</span>**

**GPS critical to crops and agriculture production**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">GPS.gov 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (“Agriculture,” National Coordination Office for Space-Based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing,http://www.gps.gov/applications/agriculture/)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Precision agriculture is …agricultural operations in the future.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">GPS used to boost crop production.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">USARF 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (USA Rice Federation, Western Farm Press, “GPS dependability vital to agriculture”, August 10, 2011,http://westernfarmpress.com/government/gps-dependability-vital-agriculture)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">USA Rice Federation and </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">a device is unknown.</span>









**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Reduced crop yields cause international conflict.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> **Calvin 98** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(William, theoretical neurophysiologist at the University of Washington, ATLANTIC MONTHLY, January, The Great Climate Flip-Flop, Vol 281, No. 1, 1998, p. 47)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The population-… the North Atlantic.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">And, Crop yields key to prevent poverty – shortages, price spikes, unemployment</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Khan 01</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (Mahmood Hasan, Professor of Economics at Simon Fraser University International Monetary Fund, “Rural Poverty in Developing Countries” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[[http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/issues/issues26/index.htm]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Achieving agricultural …certain conditions are met:</span>









**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">And, Poverty is the root cause of structural violence.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Gilligan 96</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (James, Professor of Psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School, Director of the Center for the Study of Violence, and a member of the Academic Advisory Council of the National Campaign Against Youth Violence, "Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and its Causes", p. 191-196)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The deadliest form of violence is poverty…, as cause to effect.</span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario Two: Water</span>**

**GPS is critical to water management programs.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Deepak 06 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[Shariff, Amim and Shui professors at University of Putra in Malaysia in Journal of Human Ecology "Strategie for Increasing Fresh Water Supplies in Deficit Areas at India" www.krepublishers.com/02-Journals/JHE/JHE-20-0-000-000-2006-Web/JHE-20-3-000-000-2006-Abstract-PDF/JHE-20-3-153-159-2006-1159-Deepak-T-J/JHE-20-3-153-159-2006-1159-Deepak-T-J-Text.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Geographical Information System….</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> answer the user-specified queries</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">India water management programs that can successfully gauge water resolves international water wars, crashes the global economy and leads to worldwide famine. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Brooks 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Nina, Arlington Institute, [[http://www.arlingtoninstitute.org/wbp/global-water-crisis/606]], accessed 7/7/11) </span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">India is facing a looming </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">….</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">drawn out of the ground.</span>









==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt;">Finally: Solvency.</span>**== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">I dare you to explain what GPS can’t solve.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">GAO 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (“Global Positioning System: Challenges in Sustaining and Upgrading Capabilities Persist,” Report to the Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of Representatives, Government Accounting Office, September 2010, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10636.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">GPS began operations….__, and financial networks.__</span>

**The project is meeting milestones – Only will the funding cuts risk delays.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">GPS Daily Oct 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[ "Lockheed MArtin Powers on the GPS III Pathfinder" www.gpsdaily.com/reports/Lockheed_Martin_Powers_on_the_GPS_III_Pathfinder_999.html]</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"Together with the…</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> Oscar and Nova satellites, t</span>

=Fem Aff= 
==ADV 1== 


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Notions of biological determinism are inherent in NASA policies</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lathers 2009(Marie, professor of humanities @ Case Western Univ. “No Official Requirement: Women, History, Time, and the U. S. Space Program,” //Feminist Studies//, Spring 2009, vol 35 no. 1)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">IN JULY 1962, a special ....</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">that is realized through language.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">We will isolate 2 internal links</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">first is reproduction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The approach to female bodies- seen as problematic and only for reproductive purposes in comparison to the ‘normal’ and ‘stable’ male counterparts – furthers gender binaries</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Casper and Moore 95</span> (Monica J., Ph.D in sociology from the University of California, San Francisco, feminist scholar and researcher on reproductive justice. Lisa Jean, Ph.D in sociology from the University of California, San Francisco, professor of sociology and gender studies at Purchase College. “INSCRIBING BODIES, INSCRIBING THE FUTURE: Gender, Sex, and Reproduction in Outer Space”, pg. 312, jstor [NT])

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In a twist on the ... radiation surrounding Earth."</span>
**Discourse of only heterosexual reproduction marginalizes other sexualities**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Casper and Moore 95 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Monica J., Ph.D in sociology from the University of California, San Francisco, feminist scholar and researcher on reproductive justice. Lisa Jean, Ph.D in sociology from the University of California, San Francisco, professor of sociology and gender studies at Purchase College. “INSCRIBING BODIES, INSCRIBING THE FUTURE: Gender, Sex, and Reproduction in Outer Space”, pg. 313, jstor [NT])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">It is ironic that space, ....while precluding others.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Heteronormative concept of reproduction enables sexuality based discrimination-those who do not conform to traditional gender roles will be screened out</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Casper and Moore 95 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Monica J., Ph.D in sociology from the University of California, San Francisco, feminist scholar and researcher on reproductive justice. Lisa Jean, Ph.D in sociology from the University of California, San Francisco, professor of sociology and gender studies at Purchase College. “INSCRIBING BODIES, INSCRIBING THE FUTURE: Gender, Sex, and Reproduction in Outer Space”, pg. 320-321, jstor [NT])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Heterosexist assumptions ....women together on long missions.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 2nd is Geriatric studies </span>

Geriatric studies have only been performed on men in space; NASA administrators have dismissed the female body as irrelevant to space exploration and/or development.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lyles 1999</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Latifa, Development Analyst with research contributed by Camille Paldi, NOW Launches Campaign to Send Pilot Jerrie Cobb Into Space, http://www.now.org/nnt/winter-99/jerriecobb.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">When __77-year-old Senator John Glenn__ ....__participate in these flights__."</span>


The male constructed models and data reflect the singular nature of the NASA astronaut; further negating sexual difference and deviation from what they consider normal
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Casper & Moore 1995</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Monica J., Lisa Jean, Inscribing Bodies, Inscribing the Future: Gender, Sex, and Reproduction in Outer Space, Sociological Perspectives, Vol. 38, No. 2 (Summer), pp. 311-333</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">As the tampon story illustrates, ... of gender and sexuality.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">With only a male physiological standard, women’s differences are viewed as problematic; re-entrenching the idea that wymyn aren’t stable entities</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Casper and Moore 95 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Monica J., Ph.D in sociology from the University of California, San Francisco, feminist scholar and researcher on reproductive justice. Lisa Jean, Ph.D in sociology from the University of California, San Francisco, professor of sociology and gender studies at Purchase College. “INSCRIBING BODIES, INSCRIBING THE FUTURE: Gender, Sex, and Reproduction in Outer Space”, pg. 313, jstor [NT])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Women are seen as ... as "female" problems.</span>

**Gender hierarchies underpin great power war- elimination is imperative**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Tickner 2001 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[J. Ann is a [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feminist|feminist]][[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_relations|international relations]] (IR) theorist. She is a professor at the School of International Relations, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Southern_California|University of Southern California]], Los Angeles.[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J._Ann_Tickner#cite_note-0|[1]]] Her books include //Gendering World Politics: Issues and Approaches in the Post-Cold War Era// (Columbia University, 2001), //Gender in International Relations: Feminist Perspectives on Achieving International Security// (Columbia University, 1992) “Gendering World Politics: Issues and Approaches in the Post-Cold War Era” May [[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/tia01/index.html]]] AK</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Chapter 2 deals with war, peace, and security...</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> __political and economic injustice.__</span>
==ADV 2== 

**Women are severely under-represented in STEM occupations- less than 25%**
**ESA 2011**
August 3, 2011 Economics and Statistics Administration “Women in STEM: A Gender Gap to Innovation”; [[http://www.esa.doc.gov/Reports/women-stem-gender-gap-innovation]]
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">Our science, technology, ... women in STEM.</span>

**Gender biases prevent female involvement in STEM**
**Lederman 9/19/2006**
Doug Lederman[graduated in 1984 from Princeton University. He has won three National Awards for Education Reporting from the Education Writers Association] 9/19/2006 “**The Real Barriers for Women in Science**”[[http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2006/09/19/women]]

A series of cognitive .... unacceptable traits for women."


**Female astronauts are role models for STEM**
**Sally ride science 2010**
Sally Ride Science April 19, 2010 “First American Woman in Space Inspires Future Scientists”; [[https://www.sallyridescience.com/node/1383]]
It was one of those “firsts” ... think about their futures.



<span class="Underline">**Women in STEM solve warming**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Hill et al 2010**</span>
<span class="Underline">(catherine hill, PhD, Christianne Corbett, Andresse St. Rose, Ed.D, “why so few? Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematic” February 2010</span>
[[http://eric.ed.gov/PDFS/ED509653.pdf|__http://eric.ed.gov/PDFS/ED509653.pdf__]])

<span class="Underline">Attracting and retaining .... likely to represent all users</span>


**Warming is an existential threat**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">The best estimates ...social, cultural and political </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">changes</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


==Plan Text: <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States Federal Government should conduct geriatric studies on women beyond the earth’s mesosphere </span>== 


==Solvency== 


**Deconstructing gender is key to understanding our constructions of outer space**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Griffin 9 (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-75.)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Outer space is a conceptual,...</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> 'may or may not be explicit'</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (Butler 2004: 41).</span>









**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt;">Gender framing and analysis shape public and political discourse </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Beland 09</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (Daniel, Professor of Public Policy at the University of Saskatchewan, “Gender, Ideational Analysis, and Social Policy”, Social Politics: International Studies in Gender, State and Society, Volume 16, Issue 4, Project Muse, HC)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">As far as the political .... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">—or oppose—policy change</span>






Conducting geriatric studies on women in space is necessary to the development of models that reflect sexual difference.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shayler & Moule 2005</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">David, Ian A., The ISS and women’s health, __Women in Space: -- Following Valentina__, pg 354-355</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">According to a NASA .... actually send a woman up.’</span>





**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt;">Rejecting this idea of heteronormative hierarchies is critical to understanding that personal concerns and political contexts are not separate spheres but interwoven- this is key to policy action</span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Steyaert, 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> - Doctor in Psychology and Professor in Organizational Psychology at the University of St. Gallen (January 2010, Chris, Gender, Work and Organization., “Queering Space: Heterotopic Life in Derek Jarman’s Garden”, vol. 17, no. 1, NZR)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Foucault envisaged a heterotopology,....__hyper- and pessimistic activism?__ </span>









Only NASA solves, the plan draws attention the importance of sex and gender in the world. This spills over to all of NASA and the future of space exploration, which is critical to challenge global sexual discrimination and increasing women in astronaut corps

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">John 2004</span>

<span style="color: #231f20; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Mariel, NASA: Making space for women, MURJournal, Vol 11, Fall, http://web.mit.edu/murj/www/v11/v11-Features/v11-f2.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The policy is also .... __**perhaps the entire world**__.</span>










=SPS 1AC= 

=Advantage 1 is Vulnerability= 


1. **Space vulnerability and instability are increasing, raising the risk of conflict- we need better satellites to prevent an attack**
**MacDonald 09,** **former assistant director for national security at the White House** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Bruce W., “Testimony of Bruce W. MacDonald”, Council of Foreign Affairs, Before the Strategic Forces Subcommittee and House Armed Services Committee, March 18, [[http://www.cfr.org/china/space-security/p18862]], Accessed July 12 2011]</span>

__Our s__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">pace assets ...</span> __long as this is true.__

**Hardening, stealth and redundancy all reduce satellite vulnerability**
**Frey 2008, graduate of Squadron Officer School,**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [former defender of the Airforce in lawsuits as the chief of labor law and served as a chief of claims, legal assistance, and civil law at Patrick AFB, Florida, Defense of US Space Assets: A Legal Perspective. Air And Space Power Journal, Vol. 22, Iss. 4; pg. 75-86. Winter 2008, Proquest ]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Second, </span>__several possibilities...__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> unavailable to war fighters.</span>

**SSP allows hardening, reconstruction and reduces satellite vulnerability**
**Ramos 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">In addition to ....</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and repositioning to meet warfighter requirements.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">26</span>__

**We will isolate 2 impacts scenarios**

**First is miscalc:**

<span class="Underline">**Increasing satellite defense is necessary to prevent surprise attacks and escalation – the US isn’t doing enough now**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Schendzielos 08 - major United States Air Force, Command and General Staff College**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [ Kurt M. Schendzielos, 30-04-2008, Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites, http://www.stormingmedia.us/35/3555/A355584.html access date: July 13, 2011] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">America is highly...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to the American way of life.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Space Situational awareness is critical to preventing miscalculations – it identifies unintentional incidents like debris**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cartwright 2011 - vice Chair Joint Chiefs of Staff**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [General James, center for strategic and international studies (csis) the national security space strategy: implications for the department of defense FEBRUARY 16, 2011http://csis.org/files/attachments/110216_spacestrategy_transcript.pdf Accessed July 12]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">GEN. CARTWRIGHT: The concept of commons... are better managed.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Miscalculation would lead to retaliatory strikes and extinction within half an hour</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The American Prospect, 2/26/01 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The bitter </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">disputes over</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> .... nuclear war by checklist, by rote."</span>


__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">2nd is heg:</span>__

**Vulnerable space assets cause rising powers to challenge our hegemony.**

**Tellis 2007 - senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues. PhD from U of Chicago Ashley J. Tellis, August, 30 2007, published online on September, 1 2007, “China's Military Space Strategy”, Survivial, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/tellis_china_space1.pdf]], accessed 7-14]</span>

__The strategic logic of ....__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> through strategically encircling it.25</span>

**Protecting vulnerable space assets is key to hegemony – if our satellites are vulnerable, we will not be able to deploy forward power projection**

**Cynamon 9 Former Deputy Program Director, Space and Nuclear Network Group**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Charles, "Defending America's Interest In Space" February 12 2009, Acsessed July 13, 2011 http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada539893.pdf] ] </span>

__Without a doubt__ <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the ...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> strategic environment discussion.</span>


**Effective US Hegemony solves multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict between nationalist regional hegemons – a multipolar or offshore balancing role is a fantasy. Declining hegemony doesn’t prevent any of their turns – the US will be required to re-engage.**

**Robert Kagan, 2007 senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, web)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is a good thing,... provide an easier path.</span>

=Advantage 2 is Warming= 



**Warming is real and human induced – drastic emissions reductions are key to avoid dangerous climate disruptions**
**-now is key**
-AR4 = IPCC
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Somerville 11 – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD</span>
Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis
<span class="Underline">1n</span> early <span class="Underline">2007</span>,.... within this century.


**Prefer our scientific assessments over single scientists or fringe theories**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Alley 10 – Professor of Geoscience @ Penn State</span>
Richard, Professor of Geoscience @ Penn State, authored over 200 refereed scientific papers, which are "highly cited" according to a prominent indexing service, erved with distinguished national and international teams on major scientific assessment bodies, 11-17-2010, “CLIMATE CHANGE SCIENCE; COMMITTEE: HOUSE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY;
SUBCOMMITTEE: ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis
Background on ...<span class="Underline"> has removed them entirely</span>.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Warming causes EXTINCTION- only SPS effectively solves</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hsu 10 – PhD in Engineering</span>
Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]]

It has become...<span class="Underline">chance to make a difference</span>.


**Warming collapses the ecosystem**
**Warren et al 2011.** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">Dr. Rachel Warren,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">NERC Advanced Fellow @ University of East Anglia, Leader Ecosystem Services and Leader Community Integrated Assessment System, Dr. Jeff Price is a biologist and Professor of Geological and Environmental Sciences at CSU Chico, author of major warming books, Andreas Fischlin is head of the Terrestrial Systems Ecology Group, Ph.D in population ecology. Santiago de la Nava Santos, Guy Midgley. Increasing impacts of climate change upon ecosystems with increasing global mean temperature rise, 21 August 2010. ([[https://mail-attachment.googleusercontent.com/attachment?ui=2&ik=68edd708fd&view=att&th=130dcf75c3c6b9a1&attid=0.1&disp=inline&realattid=f_gpivseim0&safe=1&zw&saduie=AG9B_P9v-e7ASYqyRVdmOxmB6PH6&sadet=1309474731525&sads=rFnUsons67EgUuZcqovX-X2kaNY&sadssc=1]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A literature-based .... Convention on Climate Change.</span>

**The Extinction of any species can create an alarming chain reaction resulting in co-extinctions which threaten humanity.**
**Whitty, Environmental Correspondent, 2007**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Julia, April 25, “Gone: Mass Extinction and the Hazards of Earth's Vanishing Biodiversity”, http://www.motherjones.com/news/feature/2007/05/gone.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nowhere is this ...</span>__100 million victims.__

=Plan Text= 

**The United States Federal Government should develop and demonstrate space based solar power.**

=Solvency= 



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A major government investment and demonstration ensure sustainable and environmentally friendly growth</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">IAA 11</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">International Academy of Astronautics, Academy that brings together the world's foremost experts in the disciplines of astronautics on a regular basis to recognize the accomplishments of their peers, and explores and discuss cutting-edge issues in space research and technology, 4-2011, “The First International Assessment of Space Solar Power: Opportunities, Issues and Potential Pathways Forward,” Green Energy From Space Solar Power, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg311/sg311finalreport.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Finding 1: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Fundamentally ...tests and demonstrations</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**SPS is the best way to solve for warming**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NSS 7</span>
August 2008, Solarpedia, [[http://www.solaripedia.com/13/76/639/space-based_solar_power_diagram.html]], “Project”
<span class="Underline">The United States and ...</span> other energy sources.


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Only up-front government investment will promote large-scale development – otherwise most of the private sector will remain the sidelines </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Komerath 10 – Professor of Aerospace Engineering</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Narayanan, 1-4-2010, “The Space Power Grid: Synergy Between Space, Energy and Security Policies,” http://smartech.gatech.edu/bitstream/handle/1853/32263/217-673-1-PB.pdf.txt?sequence=3</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">At GEO, a satellite ...potential becomes self-sustaining.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The plan significantly retires SSP risk – key to jump-starting private sector investment </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">NSSO 7</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The SBSP Study Group ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">and incentivize its development.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">SSP skepticism only describes the status quo – the plan __jump-starts__ investment that overcomes viability concerns</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hsu 10 – PhD in Engineering</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Why </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">solar energy from space... overcoming these issues</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>















=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]