[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==SPS Aff== 

===1AC Warming Advantage=== 

Warming is real and caused by humans
Dessler, ’10 (Andrew Dessler, professor of atmospheric sciences, Texas A&M University; Katharine Hayhoe, research associate professor of atmospheric sciences, Texas Tech University; Charles Jackson, research scientist, Institute for Geophysics, The University of Texas at Austin; Gerald North, distinguished professor of atmospheric sciences, Texas A&M University; André Droxler, professor of earth science and director of the Center for the Study of Environment and Society, Rice University; and Rong Fu, professor, Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin, March 6, 2010, Chronicle, On Global Warming, the science is solid, http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/editorial/outlook/6900556.html)

In recent months, e-mails stolen … influence on our climate.


SPS is the only technology that can actually solve warming
Hsu, ’10 (Dr. Feng, Sr. Vice President Systems Engineering & Risk Management Space Energy Group, Winter 2010, Online Journal of Space Communication, Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html)

Solar Energy vs. Other Forms of Renewable … models for overcoming these issues.


Solar power is the best way to solve – extinction is inevitable if we do nothing
Hsu, ’10 (Dr. Feng, Sr. Vice President Systems Engineering & Risk Management Space Energy Group, Winter 2010, Online Journal of Space Communication, Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html)

It has become increasingly evident … human beings can use in a whole year.


Warming leads to nuclear war and famine that kills hundreds of millions of people
Pfeiffer ’04 (Dale Allen, science journalist, geologist, and noted authority on energy and related geopolitical issues, “Global Climate Change & Peak Oil,” From The Wilderness Publications, http://www.fromthewilderness.com/free/ww3/041304_climate_change_pt1.html)

In October of 2003, the Pentagon … natural gas cliff. Not pretty.

Warming leads to positive feedback by killing phytoplankton
NASA Earth Observatory, ’06 (“Warming Ocean Slows Phytoplankton Growth,” 12/7, http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/IOTD/view.php?id=7187)

Why do warmer temperatures have … would produce more warming.”


Extinction
Bryant, ’03 (Donald A., Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology @ Pennsylvania State University, 8-19-3 “The beauty in small things revealed” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Vol. 100, No. 17, pp. 9647-9649)

Oxygenic photosynthesis accounts for nearly … productivity to be made (refs. 1 and 2; see Fig. 1).


===1AC Econ Advantage=== 

SPS provides a stimulus and creates new jobs – key to the economy
Lampson, ’09 (Nick Lampson, former U.S. Representative from the 22nd district of Texas and chairman of the Energy and Environment Subcommittee. Currently a member of the Coalition for Space Exploration board of advisers. "Space-based solar power can help on energy needs." Houston Chronicle, October 22, 2009. Accessed July 18, 2011. http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/editorial/outlook/6681871.html)

The United States is on a serious … our ever-growing energy needs.


Jobs key to the economy – only way to sustain the recovery
Abromowitz et al., 09 [David, Heather Boushey, Michael Ettlinger, Kate Gordon, Bracken Hendricks, Andrew Jakabovics, Michael Linden, David Madland, Sarah Rosen Wartell, American Progress writers “Meeting the Jobs Challenge” http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/12/jobs_challenge.html]

The U.S. economy is now in … remaining $553 billion is spent in 2010.

Moreover, SPS is key to the aerospace industry.
NSSO, ’07 [National Security Space Office, 10/10/07, “Space-Based Solar Power as an Opportunity for Strategic Security: Report to the Director, National Security Space office Interim Assessment Release 0.1,” http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf, DS]

An SBSP program as outlined in this report …expression of this imperative.

Aerospace key to the economy, four reasons
Wensveen, ’07 (John, President and CEO of Airline Visions, 2007 LLC Air Transportation: A Management Perspective, pg 28)

Naturally, such an industry is vital … among the nation’s major industries.

Economic collapse leads to nuclear war
O'Donnell, ’09 [Sean, Baltimore Republican Examiner writer and Marine Corps Reserve squad leader, 2-26-2009, The Baltimore Republican Examiner, "Will this recession lead to World War III?," http://www.examiner.com/x- 3108-Baltimore-Republican- Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this- recession-lead-to-World-War- III]

Could the current economic crisis … sometimes history repeats itself.


===1AC Leadership Advantage=== 

The United States is falling behind in Space leadership now.
Cox, ’11 (William John, public interest lawyer, author and political activist Tuesday, Mar 29, 2011, Consortium News, The Race for Solar Energy from Space, http://axisoflogic.com/artman/publish/Article_62659.shtml)

The failure of the General Electric … political and military problems.

SPS boosts space leadership
Flournoy et al 10 (Don, Editor of Online Journal of Space Communication, Space Energy, 7/13, http://spaceenergy.com/AnnouncementRetrieve.aspx?ID=51945)

The new U.S. National Space Policy … shall not be placed in outer space.

Space leadership is key to warfighting capabilities
Young, ‘08 (Chair – Institute for Defense Analyses Research Group, et al., 2008 A. Thomas, “Leadership, Management, and Organization for National Security Space”, July, http://www.armyspace.army.mil/ASJ/Images/National_Security_S pace_Study_Final_Sept_16.pdf)

Today, U.S. leadership in space … structure that no longer exist.

SPS improves energy independence – prevents leadership collapse
Bonnici, ’09 (Alex Michael, involved with Atlantica Expeditions, appointed the European Union Liaison for the Undersea Colony project, physics teacher, Tuesday, January 20, 2009, The Discovery Enterprise, Solar Power Satellites: The Yes Case, http://discoveryenterprise.blogspot.com/2009/01/solar-power-satellites-yes-case.html)

Is now the time for major … research funding to date in comparison.

Hegemony prevents nuclear war
Arbatov ‘07 [Alexei Arbatov, Head of the Center for International Security Center of the Institute for International Economy and International Relationships of the Russian Academy of Sciences “Is a New Cold War Imminent,” http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/20/1130.html, 2007]

A multipolar world that is not moving … several major capitals of the world.

Leadership collapse makes every scenario for war more likely
Kagan, ‘07 (Robert, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace 7/19/2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)

This is a good thing, and it should … draw the United States back in again.

===1AC Plan Text=== 
The United States federal government should fully fund and implement space-based solar power

===1AC Solvency=== 

SSP is technologically feasible and can meet our energy needs
NSSO, ’08 (National Security Space Office, otrans.3cdn.net/38b615154ce6479749_p9m6bn37b.pdf,November 23, DA 6/23/11, OST)

Immensely Scalable — SSP can scale … 21st and 22nd Centuries, and beyond.


Only US SPS can solve – we have to win the race to solve
NSSO, ’07 (National Security Space Office, SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf)

FINDING: The SBSP Study Group … catalyze development in the other.

In the long Run, SPS solves for the extreme costs ends up making money
Chao and Chang (Graduated Medical Student, Graduated Engineering student, The Power of Power) http://design4dev.wetpaint.com/page/Solar+Power+Satellites

Merely looking at the costs … transportation costs or security.

SSP is technically feasible.
Foust, The Space Review editor and publisher, 2007 [Jeff, The Space Review, 8/13, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/931/1] JS

It’s easy to see why people … whether or not it’s economically feasible.”


Space Solar Power is scientifically feasible.
The Economist 12/4/08, http://www.economist.com/node/12673299 JS

The optimistic NSSO report was … system made up of lots of small parts.


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]