[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Solar Sails Affirmative== 
**Contention one is exploration**
**First— Mars colonization is a reality— Mars has resources, there’s water, and we can generate energy, grow crops, and reproduce— thickening the atmosphere solves all other solvency deficits— Mars is comparatively the best place to go**
Robert <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zubrin</span>, Master of Science degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a __Ph.D. in nuclear engineering__ from the University of Washington, __President of the Mars Society__, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>
[“Towards a Theory of Space Power”, February 2011, National Defense University Press, available online at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/spacepower.html]]</span>, accessed 8/27/11//Thur]//
//<span class="underline">Among extraterrestrial bodies in our solar system, Mars is singular in that it possesses </span><span class="Emphasis2">all</span><span class="underline"> the raw materials required to support</span> not only life, but also a new branch of <span class="underline">human civilization</span>. This uniqueness is illustrated most clearly if Mars is contrasted with the Earth's Moon, the most frequently cited alternative location for extraterrestrial human colonization. <span class="underline">Unlike the Moon, Mars is rich in carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen, and oxygen, all in </span><span class="Emphasis2">biologically readily accessible</span><span class="underline"> forms such as carbon dioxide gas, nitrogen gas, water ice, and permafrost</span>.2 Carbon, nitrogen, and hydrogen are only present on the Moon in parts per million quantities. Oxygen is abundant on the Moon, but only in tightly bound oxides such as silicon dioxide, ferrous oxide, magnesium oxide, and alumina oxide, which require very high-energy processes to reduce.3 Current knowledge indicates that <span class="underline">if Mars were smooth and all its ice and permafrost melted into liquid water, the entire planet would be covered with an ocean over 200 meters deep</span>.4 <span class="underline">This scenario contrasts strongly with the Moon, which is so dry that if </span><span class="Emphasis2">concrete</span><span class="underline"> were found there, lunar colonists would mine it to get the</span> water out. Thus, if plants could be grown in greenhouses on the Moon (an unlikely proposition, as the Moon's 2-week-long dark spell is unsuitable for most plants, and the absence of any atmosphere would make necessary very thick glass for solar flare shielding), most of their biomass material would have to be imported. The Moon is also deficient in about half the metals of interest to industrial society (copper, for example), as well as many other elements of interest such as sulfur and phosphorus. <span class="underline">Mars has every required element in </span><span class="Emphasis2">abundance</span><span class="underline">. Moreover, on Mars, </span><span class="Emphasis2">as on Earth</span><span class="underline">, hydrologic and volcanic processes have occurred that are likely to have consolidated various elements into local concentrations of high-grade mineral ore</span>. Indeed, <span class="underline">the geologic history of Mars has been </span><span class="Emphasis2">compared to that of Africa</span><span class="underline">, with very optimistic inferences as to its mineral wealth implied as a corollary.</span>5 In contrast, <span class="underline">the Moon</span> has almost no history of water or volcanic action, with the result that it <span class="underline">is basically composed of </span><span class="Emphasis2">trash rocks</span> with little differentiation into ores that represent useful concentrations of anything interesting. Power could be generated on either the Moon or Mars with solar panels, and here the advantages of the Moon's clearer skies and closer proximity to the Sun than Mars roughly balance the disadvantage of large energy storage requirements created by the Moon's 28- day light/dark cycle. But <span class="underline">if the desire was to manufacture solar panels so as to create a self-expanding power base, Mars holds an enormous advantage, as only Mars possesses the large supplies of carbon and hydrogen needed to produce the pure silicon required for making photovoltaic panels and other electronics</span>. Also, there is no geologically purified source of silicon dioxide, such as sand, on the Moon. In addition, <span class="underline">Mars has the potential for wind-generated power, while the Moon clearly does not</span>. But both the Sun and wind offer relatively modest power potential—tens or at most hundreds of kilowatts here or there. To create a vibrant civilization, a richer power base is needed, and <span class="underline">Mars has</span> this both in the short and medium term in the form of its <span class="underline">geothermal power resources, which offer the potential for large numbers of locally created electricity-generating stations</span> in the 10 megawatt (10,000 kilowatt) class. In the long term, <span class="underline">Mars will enjoy a </span><span class="Emphasis2">power-rich</span><span class="underline"> economy based upon exploitation of its large domestic resources of deuterium fuel for fusion reactors</span>. <span class="underline">Deuterium is five times more common on Mars than it is on Earth, and tens of thousands of times more common on Mars than on the Moon</span>.6 But the biggest problem with the Moon, as with all other airless planetary bodies and proposed artificial free-space colonies, is that sunlight is not available in a form useful for growing crops. A single acre of plants on Earth requires 4 megawatts (MW) of sunlight power; a square kilometer needs 1,000 MW. The entire world put together would not produce enough electric power to illuminate the farms of the state of Rhode Island. Growing crops with electrically generated light is economically hopeless. But natural sunlight cannot be used on the Moon or any other airless body in space unless the walls on the greenhouse are thick enough to shield out solar flares, a requirement that enormously increases the expense of creating crop land. Even accomplishing this requirement would do no good on the Moon, because plants will not grow in a light/dark cycle lasting 28 days. But <span class="underline">Mars has an atmosphere thick enough to protect crops grown on the surface from solar flares. Therefore, thin-walled inflatable plastic greenhouses protected by unpressurized ultraviolet-resistant hard-plastic shield domes can be used to rapidly </span>//
//<span class="underline">create crop land on the surface. Even without the problems of solar flares and a month-long diurnal cycle, such simple greenhouses would be impractical on the Moon as they would create unbearably high temperatures. On Mars,</span> in contrast, <span class="underline">the strong greenhouse effect created by such domes would be precisely what is necessary to produce a temperate climate inside</span>. Such domes up to 50 meters in diameter are light enough to be transported from Earth initially, and they eventually could be manufactured on Mars out of indigenous materials. <span class="underline">Because all the resources to make plastics exist on Mars, networks of such 50- to 100-meter domes could be manufactured and deployed </span><span class="Emphasis2">rapidly</span><span class="underline">, opening up large areas of the surface to both </span><span class="Emphasis2">shirtsleeve human habitation </span><span class="underline">and agriculture.</span> Looking further into the future, <span class="underline">it will eventually be possible for humans to thicken Mars' atmosphere substantially by forcing the regolith to outgas its contents through a deliberate program of artificially induced global warming. Once that has been accomplished, the habitation domes could be almost any size, as they would not have to sustain a pressure differential between their interior and exterior. In fact, once that has been done, it will be possible to raise specially bred crops outside the domes</span>. The point is that unlike colonists on any other known extraterrestrial body, <span class="underline">Martian colonists will be able to live on the surface, not in tunnels, and move about freely and grow crops in the light of day. Mars is a place where humans can </span><span class="Emphasis2">live and multiply to large numbers</span><span class="underline">, supporting themselves with products of every description made out of indigenous materials</span>. Mars is thus a place where <span class="underline">an actual </span><span class="Emphasis2">civilization</span>, not just a mining or scientific outpost, <span class="Emphasis2">can be developed</span>. And it is <span class="underline">this civilization, grown in size and technological potency on a frontier planet with a surface area as large as all the continents of Earth put together, that will both radically tip the balance among those who remain behind on Earth and provide the pioneers with the craft and outlook required to push the human reach much further</span>. Thus, for our generation and those soon to follow, <span class="Emphasis2">Mars is the new world.</span> The nation that settles it is one whose culture, values, social forms, and ideas will provide the point of departure for the further development of human civilization as our species expands outward from its planet of origin to the innumerable others awaiting us in the infinite reaches of space.//

**//Second— No new technologies need to be created to colonize Mars in a decade— The only question is getting to Mars, the rest is sophomore year chemistry//**
//Robert <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zubrin</span>, __as previously cited,__ <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>//
//[“Towards a Theory of Space Power”, February 2011, National Defense University Press, available online at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/spacepower.html]]</span>, accessed 8/27/11//Thur]
In essence, <span class="underline">by taking advantage of the</span> most obvious local resource available on Mars— its <span class="underline">atmosphere</span>—<span class="underline">the plan allows accomplishment of a manned Mars mission with what amounts to a lunar-class transportation system</span>. <span class="underline">By </span><span class="Emphasis2">eliminating any requirement</span><span class="underline"> to introduce a new order of technology and complexity of operations beyond those needed for lunar transportation to accomplish piloted Mars missions, the plan can reduce costs by an order of magnitude and advance the schedule for the human exploration of Mars by a </span><span class="Emphasis2">generation. Exploring Mars requires no miraculous new technologies, no orbiting spaceports, and no gigantic interplanetary space cruisers</span>. <span class="underline">We do not need to spend the next 30 years</span> with a space program mired in impotence, <span class="underline">spending large sums of money, </span>and taking occasional casualties while the same missions to nowhere are flown over and over again and professional technologists dawdle endlessly without producing any new flight hardware. <span class="underline">We simply need to choose our destination and, with the same combination of vision, practical thinking, and passionate resolve that served us so well during Apollo, do what is required to get there. We can establish our first </span>small<span class="underline"> outpost on Mars within a decade. We</span> and not some future generation <span class="underline">can</span> have the eternal honor of <span class="underline">be</span>ing <span class="underline">the first pioneers</span> of this new world for humanity. <span class="underline">All that is needed is present-day technology, some 19th-century industrial chemistry, a solid dose of common sense, </span><span class="Emphasis2">and a little bit of moxie</span><span class="underline">.</span>

**Third— Solar Sails can get us there— We have the technology now, and they’re better than all other alternatives**
Giovanni<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Vulpetti et al. </span>Masters in nuclear physics, __Ph.D. in plasma physics, fellow of AIAA__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, 2008</span>
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span>,accessed 8-11-11//Thur]//
//In the previous chapters, we described the space rocket engines, how they work, their role in past and current spaceflight, and their limitations. <span class="underline">We have also shown that the rocket is not the only propulsion type that could be employed in space. Among the types of space propulsion currently under investigation, one is particularly promising: the solar sail. This</span> propulsion <span class="underline">mode is not conceptually new, even though only recent technology gives it a good chance to make a quality jump in spaceflight. Its principles and how to efficiently use a sail vehicle could be understood better by reviewing what happened about four millennia ago on the seas and by referring to the progress of physics in the 19th and 20th centuries</span>. Early pioneers of solar sailing conceived a space use of sails in the first half of the 20th century, whereas the first technical publications and space designs began in the second half. But let us proceed in chronological order.//

**//Fourth— Independent of Mars— Solar sails are key to deep space exploration that solves extinction— Sundiving allows solar system escape//**
//Giovanni<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Vulpetti et al. </span>__as previously cited__, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>//
//[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span>,accessed 8-11-11//Thur]
One might suppose that a low-thrust Sun-pushed gossamer spacecraft will have no application in ventures testing the fringes of galactic space. One would be wrong! <span class="underline">In</span> a maneuver called ``<span class="underline">sundiving''</span> by science-fiction authors Greg Benford and David Brin, <span class="underline">the sailcraft is initially placed in a parabolic or elliptical solar orbit with a perihelion</span> (point of closest solar approach) <span class="underline">as close to the Sun as possible</span> (Fig.9.3). At perihelion, <span class="underline">the sail is pointed toward the Sun, and the craft is ejected from the solar system. </span>Contemporary, <span class="underline">Earth-launched sail technology seems capable of achieving solar-system escape velocities as high as 50 kilometers per second</span> (km/s), <span class="underline">with or without the giant-planet gravity assists utilized to accelerate Pioneer 10 and 11 and Voyager 1 and 2. The solar-system escape velocities possible utilizing the sundiver maneuver are far in excess of the velocities of the Pioneers and Voyagers</span>. <span class="underline">Within</span> a flight-time of about <span class="underline">two decades, a sail-launched extrasolar probe could reach the heliopause</span>Ðthe boundary between solar and galactic influenceÐat 200 astronomical units (AU) or so from the Sun and measure local field strengths and particle densities. <span class="underline">If the probe can survive another few decades</span>Ðnot impossible in light of Pioneer's and Voyager's longevityÐ <span class="underline">data could be returned from the inner focus of the Sun's gravitational lens</span> at 550 AU, <span class="underline">which would provide a check on Einstein's general relativity theory as a mission bonus. The possibility to fly by the Sun and get a high escape speed from the solar system is </span><span class="Emphasis2">much more</span><span class="underline"> than a science-fiction idea. We have a strict mathematical theory, coming from many years of scientific research, which tells us that even </span><span class="Emphasis2">without resorting to far future technologies</span>, <span class="underline">a sufficiently light sailcraft could be controlled in such a way as to reach the solar gravitational lens with a speed of 120 km</span>/s, at least. Of course, <span class="underline">emerging technologies could do excellent things for the designs of whole sailcraft and help us to transform such theoretical results into reality</span>. Some may conservatively argue that probes to the edges of interstellar space may have little relevance to terrestrial life. But, <span class="underline">since mass-extinction events on Earth may be linked to galactic influences, a few such interstellar craft may well be launched as our sail technology improves. And these early flights will only be the start of the sail's flirtation with the galactic abyss. Because the solar sail is scalable, we may view these early efforts as humanity's </span><span class="Emphasis2">first true starships</span>.

**Fifth— Colonization is an insurance policy against extinction— Every second we delay colonization of space costs one hundred trillion potential human lives.**
Nick <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom</span>, __British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow__ in the Faculty of Philosophy __at Oxford University__, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2003</span>
[“Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” preprint of an article in //Utilitas//, Volume 15, Number 3, Available Online at http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html, Accessed 01-03-2009]
As I write these words, suns are illuminating and heating empty rooms, unused energy is being flushed down black holes, and our great common endowment of negentropy is being irreversibly degraded into entropy on a cosmic scale. These are resources that an advanced civilization could have used to create value-structures, such as sentient beings living worthwhile lives. The rate of this loss boggles the mind. <span class="CardText-Underlined">One recent paper speculates</span>, using loose theoretical considerations based on the rate of increase of entropy, <span class="CardText-Underlined">that the loss of potential human lives in our own galactic supercluster is at least ~10^46 per century of delayed colonization</span>.[1] This estimate assumes that all the lost entropy could have been used for productive purposes, although no currently known technological mechanisms are even remotely capable of doing that. Since the estimate is meant to be a lower bound, this radically unconservative assumption is undesirable. We can, however, get a lower bound more straightforwardly by simply counting the number or stars in our galactic supercluster and multiplying this number with the amount of computing power that the resources of each star could be used to generate using technologies for whose feasibility a strong case has already been made. We can then divide this total with the estimated amount of computing power needed to simulate one human life. As a rough approximation, let us say the Virgo Supercluster contains 10^13 stars. One estimate of the computing power extractable from a star and with an associated planet-sized computational structure, using advanced molecular nanotechnology[2], is 10^42 operations per second.[3] A typical estimate of the human brain’s processing power is roughly 10^17 operations per second or less.[4] Not much more seems to be needed to simulate the relevant parts of the environment in sufficient detail to enable the simulated minds to have experiences indistinguishable from typical current human experiences.[5] Given these estimates, <span class="CardText-Underlined">it follows that the potential for approximately 10^38 human lives is lost every century that colonization of our local supercluster is delayed; or equivalently, about 10^31 potential human lives per second</span>. While this estimate is conservative in that it assumes only computational mechanisms whose implementation has been at least outlined in the literature, it is useful to have an even more conservative estimate that does not assume a non-biological instantiation of the potential persons. Suppose that about 10^10 biological humans could be sustained around an average star. Then the Virgo Supercluster could contain 10^23 biological humans. This corresponds to a loss of potential equal to about 10^14 potential human lives per second of delayed colonization. <span class="CardText-Underlined">What matters for present purposes is not the exact numbers but the fact that they are huge. Even with the most conservative estimate</span>, assuming a biological implementation of all persons, <span class="CardText-Underlined">the potential for one hundred trillion potential human beings is lost for every second of postponement of colonization of our supercluster</span>.[6]

**Sixth—Even if the plan results in death of 99% of the world solving long term extinction outweighs**
Jason <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Matheny</span>, __Ph.D. Candidate__ in the Department of Health Policy and Management at the Bloomberg School of Public Health __at Johns Hopkins__ University, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[“Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” //Risk Analysis//, Volume 27, Number 5, Available Online at http://www.upmc-biosecurity.org/website/resources/publications/2007_orig-articles/2007-10-15-reducingrisk.html, Accessed 04-13-2009]</span>
In a similar vein, the philosopher Derek Parfit (1984) wrote: I believe that <span class="CardText-Underlined">if we destroy mankind, as we now can, this outcome will be much worse than most people think. </span>Compare three outcomes: 1. Peace2. A nuclear war that kills 99%<span class="CardText-Underlined"> of the world’s existing population </span>3. A nuclear war that kills 100% <span class="CardText-Underlined">2 would be worse than 1, and 3 would be worse than 2. Which is the greater of these two differences? </span>Most people believe that the greater difference is between 1 and 2. I believe that the difference between 2 and 3 is very much greater<span class="CardText-Underlined">.... </span>The Earth will remain habitable for at least another billion years. Civilization began only a few thousand years ago. If we do not destroy mankind, these thousand years may be only a tiny fraction of the whole of civilized human history.<span class="CardText-Underlined"> The difference between 2 and 3 may thus be the difference between this tiny fraction and all of the rest of this history. </span>If we compare this possible history to a day, what has occurred so far is only a fraction of a second. Human extinction in the next few centuries could reduce the number of future generations by thousands or more. We take extraordinary measures to protect<span class="CardText-Underlined"> some endangered species from extinction. It might be reasonable to take extraordinary measures to protect </span>humanity<span class="CardText-Underlined"> from the same</span>.19 To decide whether this is so requires more discussion of the methodological problems mentioned here, as well as research on the extinction risks we face and the costs of mitigating them.20

**Seventh— When evaluating impacts, we have a responsibility to evaluate future lives – it is ethically indefensible to devalue the lives of future generations**
Jason <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Matheny</span>__, as previously cited__, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span>
[“Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” //Risk Analysis//, Volume 27, Number 5, Available Online at http://www.upmc-biosecurity.org/website/resources/publications/2007_orig-articles/2007-10-15-reducingrisk.html, Accessed 04-13-2009]
An extinction<span class="CardText-Underlined"> event </span>today could cause the loss of thousands of generations<span class="CardText-Underlined">. This matters to the extent we value future lives</span>. Society places some value on future lives when it accepts the costs of long-term environmental policies or hazardous waste storage. Individuals place some value on future lives when they adopt measures, such as screening for genetic diseases, to ensure the health of children who do not yet exist. <span class="CardText-Underlined">Disagreement</span>, then, <span class="CardText-Underlined">does not center on whether future lives matter, but on how much they matter</span>.6 <span class="CardText-Underlined">Valuing future lives less than current ones</span> (“intergenerational discounting”) <span class="CardText-Underlined">has been justified by arguments about time preference, growth in consumption, uncertainty about future existence, and opportunity costs</span>. I will argue that <span class="CardText-Underlined">none of these justifications applies to the benefits of delaying human extinction</span>. Under time preference, a good enjoyed in the future is worth less, intrinsically, than a good enjoyed now. <span class="CardText-Underlined">The typical justification for time preference is descriptive</span>—most people make decisions that suggest that they value current goods more than future ones. <span class="CardText-Underlined">However, it may be that people’s time preference applies only to instrumental goods</span>, like money, <span class="CardText-Underlined">whose value predictably decreases in time</span>. In fact, it would be difficult to design an experiment in which time preference for an intrinsic good (like happiness), rather than an instrumental good (like money), is separated from the other forms of discounting discussed below. <span class="CardText-Underlined">But even supposing individuals exhibit time preference within their own lives, it is not clear how this would ethically justify discounting across different lives and generations</span> (Frederick, 2006; Schelling, 2000). <span class="CardText-Underlined">In practice, </span>discounting the value of future lives would lead to results few of us would accept as being ethical<span class="CardText-Underlined">. For instance, </span>if we discounted lives at a 5% annual rate, a life today would have greater intrinsic value than a billion lives 400 years hence (Cowen & Parfit, 1992). Broome (1994) suggests <span class="CardText-Underlined">most economists and philosophers recognize that this </span>preference for ourselves over our descendents is unjustifiable<span class="CardText-Underlined"> and agree that </span>ethical impartiality requires setting the intergenerational discount rate to zero<span class="CardText-Underlined">. After all, </span>if we reject spatial discounting and assign equal value to contemporary human lives<span class="CardText-Underlined">, whatever their physical distance from us, </span>we have similar reasons to reject temporal discounting, and assign equal value to<span class="CardText-Underlined"> human </span>lives, whatever their temporal distance from us. I Parfit (1984), Cowen (1992), and Blackorby et al. (1995) have similarly argued that time preference across generations is not ethically defensible.7 There could still be other reasons to discount future generations. A common justification for discounting economic goods is that their abundance generally increases with time. Because there is diminishing marginal utility from consumption, future generations may gain less satisfaction from a dollar than we will (Schelling, 2000). This principle makes sense for intergenerational transfers of most economic goods but not for intergenerational transfers of existence. <span class="CardText-Underlined">There is no diminishing marginal utility from having ever existed. </span>There is no reason to believe existence matters less to a person 1,000 years hence than it does to a person 10 years hence.

**Eighth— U.S. action is key— The first to settle gets sole control of land distribution and resource development**
Rhawn <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Joseph</span>, __Syndicated Author__, Ph.D. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>
[“Marketing Mars:Financing the Human Mission toMarsandtheColonization of the RedPlanet”, Journal ofCosmology,Vol12,August2010,available online at<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars110.html]]</span>, accessed 8-23-11//Thur]//
//Although the Space Treaty does not bar private ownership of "celestial bodies", this does not mean that someone can simply say: "I own Mars". Legal precedent requires possession. Consider, for example, maritime salvage law (also known as Admiralty and Maritime Law, and the Law of Salvage), which explicitly states that to claim ownership, the party making the claim must first make contact with and secure the property which must be beyond or outside a nation's national territory (Norris, 1991; Shoenbaum, 1994). In terms of "salvage" the original owner is entitled to a percentage of whatever is recovered. <span class="underline">In the case of Mars, there are no original owners</span> (and if there were, they are long dead and gone). <span class="underline">Therefore, although some may argue that the 1967 treaty bars national ownership of Mars, the treaty does not apply to private ownership</span>. <span class="underline">This means that those who first arrive on Mars, may claim Mars</span> (or all areas of Mars explored by humans) <span class="underline">as private property. They may also sell portions of this property to other private parties or corporations. </span>What might humans of Earth pay to own an inch or acre of Mars? <span class="underline">Traditionally, mineral resources within national territory, belong to the government ruling that territory. Corporations and individuals must license the right to extract and sell those resources. Therefore, if those who first take possession of Mars form a government, they may claim ownership of all mineral and other resources</span> (e.g. minerals, metals, gemstones, ores, salt, water). However, <span class="underline">in the early history of the United States, private owners owned both "surface rights" and "mineral rights" and they had the right to sell, lease, or give away these rights. According to the Mars Mineral Spectoscropy Database of Mount Holyoke College, a wide variety of over 50 minerals may exist on Mars. Gold, silver, platinum, and other precious metals are likely to exist in abundance above and below the Martian surface; spewed out by volcanoes, and produced by ancient hydrothermal activity and circulating goundwater which acted as a concentrater.</span> Therefore, <span class="underline">once humans land on Mars, Martian mineral rights can be sold to the highest bidders, and Martian real estate can be sold by the inch or acre, with all these funds going to support the Human Mission to Mars and the colonization of the Red Planet. </span>//

**//Ninth— Mars colonization revitalizes the economy—open immigration, sale of real estate, and innovation//**
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zubrin, </span>__as previously cited,__ <span style="font-size: 13pt;">1996 </span>[Robert, aerospace engineer Ph.D. in Nuclear Engineering from Washington, “The Case for Colonizing Mars”, July/August 1996, http://www.nss.org/settlement/mars/zubrin-colonize.html//Thur]
We have examined the prospects for colonizing Mars, addressing the question of its economic viability. We have shown, that of all bodies in the solar system other than Earth, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Mars is unique in that it has the resources required to support a population of sufficient size to create a new branch of human civilization</span>. We have seen that despite the fact that Mars may lack any resource directly exportable to Earth, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Mars' orbital elements and other physical parameters gives a unique positional advantage that will allow it to act as a keystone supporting extractive activities in the asteroid belt and elsewhere in the solar system</span>. We have examined the potential of relatively near-term types of interplanetary transportation systems, and shown that with very modest advances on a historical scale, systems can be put in place that will allow individuals and families to emigrate to Mars at their own discretion. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Their motives for doing so will parallel in many ways the historical motives for Europeans and others to come to America, including higher pay rates in a labor-short economy,</span> escape from tradition and oppression, as well as freedom to exercise their drive to create in an untamed and undefined world. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Under conditions of such large scale and open immigration, sale of real-estate will add a significant source of income to the planet's economy. However the greatest source of Martian wealth, and the greatest benefit of its existence to the terrestrial world, will be as a pressure cooker for invention and innovation of every type</span>. In analogy to frontier America but going well beyond it, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Mars will be a society of self-selected immigrants, operating in a harsh, labor-short environment in which practical innovation and technological acumen will be at a premium. Licensing on Earth of the inventions created under conditions of necessity on Mars will bring vast amounts of income </span>to support the development of the Red Planet, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">even as these same inventions continue to raise terrestrial living standards and destabilize tendencies that would otherwise exist on Earth towards technological and social stagnation. </span>What the Mediterranean was to the Greeks, what the New World was to the Western Europeans, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Mars will be to the pioneering nations of the next several centuries; the engine of progress of the coming era. As America showed in the 19th Century, such an engine of can pull far more than its own weight.</span>

**Contention two is solar storms**

**Initially note— A massive solar storm will hit in 2012— The solar system is passing through a interstellar energy cloud exciting the sun and causing storms— Prefer our evidence citing NASA, the National Academy of Science and astrophysicists**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coup Media Group 2011</span>
[“NASA Issues 2012 Warning and Possible End of The World 2 Years Ago”, Coup Media Group, 2/1/11, available online at<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://coupmedia.org/astro-physics/nasa-issues-2012-warning-and-possible-end-of-the-world-0102]]</span>, accessed 8/23/11//Thur]//
//In light of recent news, the following information is paramount. On July 14, <span class="underline">2010 we learned that our sun is passing through an interstellar energy cloud which excites/energizes the sun</span>. <span class="underline">NASA, along with The National Academy of Science and other world renowned scientist are so concerned about this up and coming solar maximum in late 2012, that </span>way back <span class="underline">in</span> March 10, <span class="underline">2006 NASA issued a solar storm warning</span> (in writing) <span class="underline">for 2012</span>. What NASA omitted in their 2006 solar storm warning is what prompted NASA in the first place to issue a 2012 solar storm warning four years in advance? Then <span class="underline">in 2010, NASA again warns the general population of a pending solar storm, telling the population to get ready for a once in a lifetime solar storm</span>. Despite that news agencies and websites like this one are beginning to cover this developing story, no high government official has yet to stick his or her neck out to make an official announcement about the catastrophic implications as to allow the global population to begin preparing. <span class="underline">The following scientific data revealed by Alexei Dmitriev further supports NASA’s original 2012 solar storm warning issued back in March of 2006. Astrophysicist Alexei Dmitriev says that both Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 satellites reveal that our sun, as well as our entire solar system, is now moving into an interstellar energy cloud. Opher, a NASA Heliophysics Guest Investigator from George Mason University says this interstellar energy cloud is turbulent</span>. Dmitriev explains that <span class="underline">this cloud of energy is exciting the </span>atmospheres of our planets and especially our <span class="underline">sun</span>. <span class="underline">As this interstellar energy cloud continues to excite/charge the sun, it causes the sun to become more active, resulting in greater output from the sun. IE: Bigger and more frequent solar storms and CME’s resulting in the Carrington effect</span>. This interstellar cloud of electrical energy is also absorbed by the Earth, and scientist have found that it results in more earth quakes, all while dramatically effecting our weather here on earth. When asked how long will it take our sun to pass through this interstellar energy cloud, Dr. Dmitriev replied, “I don’t know. But If I had to guess, I would say somewhere between two thousand to three thousand years.” This interstellar cloud is a wispy band of charged particles through which our solar system is slowly moving through. <span class="underline">When Dr. Dmitriev was asked what are the implications of all this for earth he replied, “</span><span class="Emphasis2">Global catastrophe</span><span class="underline">! Not in tens of years from now, but in ones of years” …in that this global catastrophe is basically right around the corner setting the stage for NASA’s latest solar storm warning 2012-2013. </span>//

**//Second— Solar storms crush the grid and lead to blackouts//**
//Giovanni<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Vulpetti et al. </span>__as previously cited__, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>//
//[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span>,accessed 8-11-11//Thur]
<span class="underline">There are other, more down-to-earth impacts spawned by these storms</span>, especially for those living at northern latitudes. <span class="underline">Recall that charged particles moving through a magnetic field will experience force acting upon them. So also will a moving magnetic field induce an electric current in a wire. Electrical utility wires</span> (particularly those hanging from telephone poles at northern latitudes) <span class="underline">will feel the effect of the solar storm as Earth's magnetic field is compressed, varying in intensity with time</span>. <span class="underline">This changing magnetic field induces current flow in the wires, creating spurious currents that knock out transformers and otherwise disrupt or shut down the transmission of electrical power. This is a real effect and it has happened</span>.

**Third— Blackouts jack the economy.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fox Business</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, 01-28-</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span>
[“Blackouts and the Electricity Grid: What's to Come,” Byline Lauren Covello, January 28th, Available Online at http://www.foxbusiness.com/story/markets/blackouts-electric-grid-whats-come/, Accessed 02-13-2009]
Blackouts<span class="underline"> -- on a large or small scale -- </span>can deal a devastating blow to businesses and the greater economy<span class="underline">, as well as jeopardize the health and safety of those affected. </span>The massive blackout <span class="underline">that rippled through the Northeast </span>in 2003, for example, resulted in a loss of hundreds of billions of dollars for the economy (approximately $1 billion for New York City alone) and contributed to the deaths of at least 11 people across eight states and Canada.


**Fourth— Solar storms crush the global economy— They kill GPS systems and the ability to send information across the world— This means telecommunication, cable and shipping all collapse**
Giovanni<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Vulpetti et al. </span>__as previously cited__, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span>,accessed 8-11-11//Thur]//
//<span class="underline">Companies and whole industries use the global positioning system and other satellite assets to accurately manage their inventories and track shipments</span>. Corporate <span class="underline">managers plan their business strategy and make decisions based on where certain products or materials are located at any given time</span>. <span class="underline">With a sudden loss in this capability, </span>millions or even <span class="underline">billons of dollars might be jeopardized</span>. <span class="underline">Cable television</span>, now estimated to be in 68 percent of television-equipped U.S. households, <span class="underline">is also at risk. After all, the cable only carries the television signal from your local cable company to your living room.</span> The cable company gets the television signals from satellites located about 36,000 kilometers above the equator<span class="underline">. If the satellites go out, the cable companies go out of business.</span>//

**//Fifth— Economic decline risks global wars in every region of the world— the probability is high//**
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Niall </span>Ferguson<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Laurence A. __Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University__,</span> 2009//
//[“The Axis of Upheaval,”// Foreign Policy//, February 16th, Available Online at http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/02/16/ the_axis_of_upheaval?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full, Accessed 04-15-2010]//
//The Bush years have of course revealed the perils of drawing facile parallels between the challenges of the present day and the great catastrophes of the 20th century. Nevertheless, <span class="underline">there is reason to fear that the biggest financial crisis since the Great Depression could have comparable consequences for the international system.</span> For more than a decade, I pondered the question of why the 20th century was characterized by so much brutal upheaval. I pored over primary and secondary literature. I wrote more than 800 pages on the subject. And ultimately I concluded, in The War of the World, that three factors made the location and timing of lethal organized violence more or less predictable in the last century. The first factor was ethnic disintegration: Violence was worst in areas of mounting ethnic tension. The second factor was economic volatility: The greater the magnitude of economic shocks, the more likely conflict was. And the third factor was empires in decline: When structures of imperial rule crumbled, battles for political power were most bloody. In at least one of the world's regions -- the greater Middle East -- two of these three factors have been present for some time: Ethnic conflict has been rife there for decades, and following the difficulties and disappointments in Iraq and Afghanistan, the United States already seems likely to begin winding down its quasi-imperial presence in the region. It likely still will. Now the third variable, <span class="CardText-Underlined">economic volatility, has returned with a vengeance</span>. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's "Great Moderation" -- the supposed decline of economic volatility that he hailed in a 2004 lecture -- has been obliterated by a financial chain reaction, beginning in the U.S. subprime mortgage market, spreading through the banking system, reaching into the "shadow" system of credit based on securitization, and now triggering collapses in asset prices and economic activity around the world. <span class="CardText-Underlined">After nearly a decade of unprecedented growth, the global economy will</span> almost certainly <span class="CardText-Underlined">sputter along</span> in 2009, though probably not as much as it did in the early 1930s, because governments worldwide are frantically trying to repress this new depression. But no matter how low interest rates go or how high deficits rise, <span class="CardText-Underlined">there will be a substantial increase in unemployment</span> in most economies this year <span class="CardText-Underlined">and a painful decline in incomes. Such economic pain nearly always has geopolitical consequences</span>. Indeed, <span class="CardText-Underlined">we can already see the first symptoms of the coming upheaval</span>. In the essays that follow, Jeffrey Gettleman describes <span class="CardText-Underlined">Somalia's endless anarchy</span>, Arkady Ostrovsky analyzes <span class="CardText-Underlined">Russia's new brand of aggression, and</span> Sam Quinones explores <span class="CardText-Underlined">Mexico's drug-war-fueled misery</span>. These, however, <span class="CardText-Underlined">are just three case studies out of a possible nine or more</span>. In Gaza, Israel has engaged in a bloody effort to weaken Hamas. But whatever was achieved militarily must be set against the damage Israel did to its international image by killing innocent civilians that Hamas fighters use as human shields. Perhaps more importantly, social and economic conditions in Gaza, which were already bad enough, are now abysmal. This situation is hardly likely to strengthen the forces of moderation among Palestinians. Worst of all, events in Gaza have fanned the flames of Islamist radicalism throughout the region -- not least in Egypt. <span class="CardText-Underlined">From Cairo to Riyadh, governments will now think twice before committing themselves to any new Middle East peace initiative</span>. <span class="CardText-Underlined">Iran</span>, meanwhile, <span class="CardText-Underlined">continues to support</span> both <span class="CardText-Underlined">Hamas</span> and its Shiite counterpart in Lebanon, Hezbollah, <span class="CardText-Underlined">and to pursue an alleged nuclear weapons program that Israelis legitimately see as a threat to their very existence</span>. No one can say for sure what will happen next within Tehran's complex political system, but it is likely that the radical faction around President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will be strengthened by the Israeli onslaught in Gaza. Economically, however, Iran is in a hole that will only deepen as oil prices fall further. Strategically, the country risks disaster by proceeding with its nuclear program, because even a purely Israeli air offensive would be hugely disruptive. All this risk ought to point in the direction of conciliation, even accommodation, with the United States. But with presidential elections in June, Ahmadinejad has little incentive to be moderate. On Iran's eastern border, <span class="CardText-Underlined">in Afghanistan, upheaval remains the disorder of the day</span>. Fresh from the success of the "surge" in Iraq, Gen. David Petraeus, the new head of U.S. Central Command, is now grappling with the much more difficult problem of pacifying Afghanistan. The task is made especially difficult by the <span class="CardText-Underlined">anarchy</span> that <span class="CardText-Underlined">prevails in neighboring Pakistan. India</span>, meanwhile, <span class="CardText-Underlined">accuses some in Pakistan of having had a hand in the Mumbai terrorist attacks</span> of last November, <span class="CardText-Underlined">spurring yet another South Asian war scare</span>. Remember: <span class="CardText-Underlined">The sabers they are rattling have nuclear tips</span>. <span class="CardText-Underlined">The democratic governments in Kabul and Islamabad are two of the weakest anywhere. Among the biggest risks the world faces this year is that one or both will break down amid escalating violence</span>. Once again, <span class="CardText-Underlined">the economic crisis is playing a crucial role</span>. Pakistan's small but politically powerful middle class has been slammed by the collapse of the country's stock market. Meanwhile, a rising proportion of the country's huge population of young men are staring unemployment in the face. It is not a recipe for political stability. <span class="CardText-Underlined">This club is anything but exclusive. Candidate members include Indonesia, Thailand, and Turkey, where there are already signs that the economic crisis is exacerbating domestic political conflicts. And let us not forget the plague of piracy in Somalia, the renewed civil war in</span> the Democratic Republic of the <span class="CardText-Underlined">Congo, the continuing violence in Sudan's Darfur region, and the heart of darkness that is Zimbabwe</span> under President Robert Mugabe. <span class="CardText-Underlined">The axis of upheaval has many members. And it’s a fairly safe bet that the roster will grow even longer this year</span>. The problem is that, as in the 1930s, most countries are looking inward, grappling with the domestic consequences of the economic crisis and paying little attention to the wider world crisis. This is true even of <span class="CardText-Underlined">the United States</span>, which <span class="CardText-Underlined">is now so preoccupied with its own economic problems that countering global upheaval looks like an expensive luxury</span>. With the U.S. rate of GDP growth set to contract between 2 and 3 percentage points this year, and with the official unemployment rate likely to approach 10 percent, all attention in Washington will remain focused on a nearly $1 trillion stimulus package. Caution has been thrown to the wind by both the Federal Reserve and the Treasury. The projected deficit for 2009 is already soaring above the trillion-dollar mark, more than 8 percent of GDP. Few commentators are asking what all this means for U.S. foreign policy. The answer is obvious: <span class="CardText-Underlined">The resources available for policing the world are certain to be reduced for the foreseeable future</span>. That will be especially true if foreign investors start demanding higher yields on the bonds they buy from the United States or simply begin dumping dollars in exchange for other currencies. <span class="CardText-Underlined">Economic volatility, plus ethnic disintegration, plus an empire in decline: That combination is about the most lethal in geopolitics. We now have all three. The age of upheaval starts now</span>.//

**//Sixth— These wars will escalate and include nuclear and biological weapons.//**
//Phil <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kerpen</span>, __Policy Director for Americans for Prosperity__—an organization of grassroots leaders who engage citizens in the name of limited government and free markets on the local, state and federal levels, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>//
//[“From Panic to Depression?,”// The National Review//, October 28th, Available Online at http://article.nationalreview.com/?q=OWQ3ZGYzZTQyZGY4ZWFiZWUxNmYwZTJiNWVkMTIxMmU=, Accessed 10-30-2008//Thur]
It’s important<span class="CardText-Underlined"> that we avoid</span> all these policy <span class="CardText-Underlined">errors — not just for the sake of our prosperity, but </span>for our <span class="Circle">survival</span>. The Great Depression, after all, didn’t end until<span class="CardText-Underlined"> the advent of World War II, </span>the <span class="Circle">most destructive war</span> in the history of the planet. In a world of nuclear and biological weapons and<span class="CardText-Underlined"> non-state </span>terrorist organizations<span class="CardText-Underlined"> that breed on poverty and despair, </span>another global economic breakdown<span class="CardText-Underlined"> of such extended duration </span>would risk armed conflicts on an <span class="Circle">even greater scale</span>.

**Seventh— Solar sails solve— Extended exploration capability is key to monitoring the sun— Current technology can’t get past the ecliptic**
Giovanni<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Vulpetti et al</span>__, as previously cited__, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span>,accessed 8-11-11//Thur]//
//<span class="underline">Solar sails are especially effective at performing missions that otherwise require a large amount of propellant</span>. A particularly propulsive-intense maneuver is required <span class="underline">to change the orbital inclination of a spacecraft, whether it orbits the earth, another planet, or the sun</span>. The orbit's inclination is simply a measure of the angle the orbit plane makes with respect to some reference plane, which usually is either Earth's equator or the ecliptic.(Note that the ecliptic is a plane, not an orbit, although the terms earth orbit and ecliptic often are used interchangeably.) <span class="underline">Moving from the initial launch orbit to another ``angle'' in orbit is very difficult, and conventional propulsion systems are limited in performing this maneuver by the amount of fuel they can carry. Taking advantage of a solar sail's virtually unlimited ability to provide thrust, scientists are eager to place a spacecraft into a highly inclined orbit around the Sun in order to study what happens near its poles</span>. <span class="underline">Current observations of the Sun are limited to spacecraft launched from Earth, which remain nearly in the ecliptic</span> (because they are launched from Earth, which inhabits the ecliptic), <span class="underline">limiting our views</span> to those near the solar equator or its mid-latitude regions. <span class="underline">The proposed mission to study the Sun's poles is called, the Solar Polar Imager, and it </span><span class="Emphasis2">can only be</span><span class="underline"> realistically implemented with a solar sail propulsion system</span>. <span class="underline">The Solar Polar Imager spacecraft would benefit from the</span> 46 <span class="underline">increase in solar propulsive thrust available </span>from operating at 0.5 AU. While the proposed mission is just a concept at this time, studies show that current solar-<span class="underline">sail technology could be used to implement the mission with a square, 3-axis stabilized sail no more than 150 meters on a side. </span>//

**//Eighth— Research on solar storms leads to information of when and where solar storms will strike— This is key to preparation//**
//Giovanni<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Vulpetti et al. </span>__as previously cited__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 2008</span>//
//[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span>,accessed 8-11-11//Thur]
Fortunately, in addition to adding lots of mass to the spacecraft, <span class="underline">there are two other ways to mitigate the effects of these storms, and both require some sort of advanced warning of an impending storm</span>. <span class="underline">One is to turn off particularly vulnerable spacecraft systems </span>when the worst of the storm arrives, and power back up after the storm is over. <span class="underline">The other would be to reorient the spacecraft so as to maximize any onboard spacecraft mass between the most vulnerable systems and the ionizing radiation in the plasma</span> for the duration of the storm.

**Ninth— Preparation solves for the impact of storms—NOAA’s current efforts aren’t enough— The program is in its infancy**
Dr. Tony <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Phillips</span>, Production __editor of Science at NASA__, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>
[“As the Sun Awakens, NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather”, Science at NASA, 6/4/10, available online at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]]</span>, accessed 8/23/11//Thur]//
//<span class="underline">Much of the damage can be mitigated if managers know a storm is coming. Putting satellites in 'safe mode' and disconnecting transformers can protect these assets from damaging electrical surges. Preventative action, however, requires accurate forecasting—a job that has been assigned to NOAA. "Space weather forecasting is still in its infancy, but we're making rapid progress," says Thomas Bogdan, director of NOAA's Space Weather Prediction Center in Boulder, Colorado.</span>//

//T**hus Marquette offers the following plan:**//

**//The United States federal government should develop solar sails and deploy them on Space Shuttle Solid Rocket Boosters.//**

**//Contention three is solvency//**

**//First— The sail being unfurled in the inner solar system answers all solvency questions— Nothing will be able to destroy ships//**
//Giovanni<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Vulpetti et al. </span>__as previously cited__, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>//
//[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span>,accessed 8-11-11//Thur]
<span class="underline">Solar sails operate best in the inner solar system and well away from Earth. Sunlight is plentiful and continuous. Away from planetary gravity, there are few mechanical stresses on their tenuous gossamer structures</span>. Though <span class="underline">the extreme effects of LEO are not present in interplanetary space</span>, it, too, is far from empty.

**Second— Solar sails are ready to fly— We have tested all the technology and materials**
Giovanni<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Vulpetti et al. </span>__as previously cited__, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>
[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span>,accessed 8-11-11//Thur]//
//Solar sails stress our current state-of-the-art materials capabilities, but <span class="underline">the needs of first-generation sail missions can now be met. Materials that are manufacturable in large sizes, yet lightweight enough to provide thrust under photon bombardment exist and have been tested in simulated space conditions. The radiation tolerance of candidate materials has been measured, with some outperforming others. Several materials appear to be both foldable and storable with minimal, if any, subsequent deployment issue</span>s. <span class="underline">From a materials point of view, first-generation solar sails are </span><span class="Emphasis2">ready to fly!</span>//

**//Finally— Technology will develop as the industry grows— All of the solvency questions will be perfected by 2030//**
//Giovanni<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Vulpetti et al. </span>__as previously cited__, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>//
//[“Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Travel”, 2008, Praxis Publishing, available online at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=xTed_Ebm32UC&oi=fnd&pg=PR8&dq=Solar+sails+Solar+Sails:+A+Novel+Approach+to+Interplanetary+Travel&ots=t1wLZNH7ws&sig=kdreyU1J2PlpZOh6M5kovjgODxg#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span>,accessed 8-11-11//Thur]
<span class="underline">Moving forward a few decades, we can reasonably expect major improvements in sail technology. Various sail structures and unfurlment techniques will have been perfected. Sails will be thinner, stronger, and more temperature resistant. A number of exciting mission opportunities could be implemented during this timeframe.</span> One of these is the possibility of formation flying with a comet and returning comet samples to Earth.
=Negative= 
==See Marquette CT Wiki== 
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]