[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SOAL AC</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">V- Justice</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The //respect principle// passes a number of meta-ethical tests. </span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Regan, 83. </span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tom Regan. __The Case for Animal Rights__. University of California Press: Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA. ISBN: 978-520-24386-6. Pp. 259-260</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“One wants more…accepting any principle. “</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, moral patients and moral agents both have equal inherent value:</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Regan, 83. </span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tom Regan. __The Case for Animal Rights__. University of California Press: Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA. ISBN: 978-520-24386-6. Pp. 240-241</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Some might concede …</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> come in degrees. “</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second, even if moral patients are less important than moral agents, this does not deny a direct duty to moral patients:</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Regan, 83. </span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tom Regan. __The Case for Animal Rights__. University of California Press: Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA. ISBN: 978-520-24386-6. Pp. 188.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“In reply it … fails to recognize.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Unlike moral agency, life, etc. the subject-of-a-life criterion provides a non-arbitrary standard for assigning moral worth:</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Regan, 83. </span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tom Regan. __The Case for Animal Rights__. University of California Press: Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA. ISBN: 978-520-24386-6. Pp. 244-245</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“The subject-of-a-life criterion … intelligible and nonarbitrary.“</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">VC- Subjects-of-a-life</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">My sole contention is that animals are subjects-of-a-life. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, evolutionary theory suggests that animals are subjects of a life because of their similarity to humans physiologically. </span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Regan, 83. </span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tom Regan. __The Case for Animal Rights__. University of California Press: Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA. ISBN: 978-520-24386-6. Pp. 26</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A third point …</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> in principle</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> mysterious. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second, Regan provides the Cumulative argument in favor of animal consciousness:</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Regan, 83. </span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tom Regan. __The Case for Animal Rights__. University of California Press: Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA. ISBN: 978-520-24386-6. Pp. 27-28</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There is, then…</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> than human beings. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Finally, the burden of proof lies on those that deny animals are subjects-of-a-life.</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Regan, 83. </span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tom Regan. __The Case for Animal Rights__. University of California Press: Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA. ISBN: 978-520-24386-6. Pp. 34-35</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Cumulative Argument </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">….</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> that they do. </span>
==Negative== 
Same as Lynbrook KR.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Animals clearly do not bring rationality to bear. </span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Vitali, 90.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Theodore Vitali. Sport Hunting: Moral or Immoral? __Environmental Ethics Magazine__. 1990. St. Louis University Department. </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">In recent years ... thus moral agency. </span>__**
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]