=Affirmative= 
SPS AFF with 4 advantages: Warming, Energy, Economy, and Environment
* SPS PLAN TEXT-
The United States Federal Government should develop and deploy Space Based Solar Powered Satellites.
* ADVANTAGE 1- ENERGY
Energy (1/7) Dependence of oil drives up prices of consumer goods, prolongs the recession as well as increase terrorist activity. Major Brian R. Stuart, USAF (April 2007. “Oil and Security Don’t Mix: Why the US can’t Ignore Dependency” pg 1-2) The issue of United States (US) dependence on foreign oil impacts most Americans. Every time "prices rise at the pump." Americans feel and recognize the impact on the economy and their income. …. oil dependence is a national problem. Senator Ken Salazar referred to it as a "major national security issue,"5 and President George Bush called it a "foreign lax on the American dream."
Energy (2/7) A U.S. economic collapse leads to global economic depression Walter Mead, Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, March/April, 2004 America’s Sticky Power, Foreign Policy, Proquest Similarly, in the last 60 years, as foreigners have acquired a greater value in the United States-government and private bonds, direct and portfolio private investments-more and more of them have acquired an interest in maintaining the strength of the U.S.-led system. A collapse of the U.S. economy and the ruin of the dollar would do more than dent the prosperity of the United States. …., unacceptable damage on the rest of the world.
Energy (3/7) Global economic collapse causes extinction Thomas Bearden, Association of Distinguished American Scientists and LTC, U.S. Army (Retired), 2000 ("The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly", http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm) History bears out that desperate nations take desperate actions. …. perhaps most of the biosphere, at least for many decades.
Energy (4/7) Increased terrorist activity will lead to extinction Jennifer Viegas, Discovery News Reporter November 11, 2009 (Discovery News: “Human Extinction: How Could it Happen?” http://news.discovery.com/human/human-extinction-doomsday.html) Humans could become extinct….escalated terrorism.
Energy (5/7) SPS solves oil dependence, independently, the impact is great power war and prevents oil shocks. NSSO, 2007, SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, (National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf) Overall, SPS offers a hopeful …. to lessen the chance of such conflicts.
Energy (6/7) Oil shocks ensure extinction. Richard Heinberg, core faculty member at New College of California, The Party’s Over: Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies, 2003, p. 230 Today the average US … most of the biosphere.
Energy (7/7) SPS technology creates energy independence. NSS ‘7 [National Space Society, October, “Space Solar Power—Limitless clean energy from space”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/index.htm, DeFilippis] The United States and the world need to find new sources …. solar system within economic reach.

* ADVANTAGE 2- WARMING

Warming (1/8) Scientific consensus proves warming is real and caused by humans. Neg authors are paid off. Suzuki 7/19/10 (David, Chair of the David Suzuki Foundation, is an award-winning scientist, Environmentalist, Science deals blow to deluded climate change deniers, http://www.bclocalnews.com/opinion/98758379.html) It must be difficult, if not downright … bird, marine, and human life, as well as local economies.
Warming (2/8) Released greenhouse gasses cause global warming and thereby extinction Stein 6/26/2011 ((Science editor for the magazine the Canadian) http://www.agoracosmopolitan.com/home/Frontpage/2007/02/26/01381.html) ja Given time lags of 30-50 years, we might have already put … into question with the discovery of fast-moving rivers of water sliding beneath their base."
Warming (3/8) Independently, warming is the only existential risk. Deibel ’07—Prof IR @ National War College (Terry, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today) Finally, there is one major … to the continued existence of life on this planet
Warming (4/8) Warming causes the Earth’s core to overheat-makes the world go death star. Dr. Tom J. Chalko, MS, Engineering & PhD, Laser Holography, “Global Warming: Can Earth Explode?” 2002, http://www.bioresonant.com/news.htm. The real danger for our entire civilization comes … It seems that there will be no second chance.
Warming (5/8) SPS solves warming entirely, it’s comparatively better than all other solutions. NSS ’11, National Space Society June 3, 2011, “Space Solar Power: Limitless clean energy from space”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/) The United States and the world need to find new sources of clean energy. … can supply nearly all the electrical needs of our planet.
Warming (6/8) Even if the plan doesn’t immediately solve-it would facilitate greater research and development that would. Fan et al ‘10, William Fan, Harold Martin, James Wo, Brian Mak, “Industry and Technology Assesment”, Space Based Solar Power, June 2, 2011, http://www.pickar.caltech.edu/e103/Final%20Exams/Space%20Based%20Solar%20Power.pdf SBSP is environmentally net positive when including the negative effects of space launches … to create a satellite capable of outputting 0.5-1 GigaWatts.
Warming (7/8) Climate Change Imperils Global Prosperity, U.N. Warns By HYPERLINK "http://green.blogs.nytimes.com/author/rachel-nuwer/" RACHEL NUWER November 2, 2011, 12:56 pm HYPERLINK "http://hdr.undp.org/en/reports/global/hdr2011/" A new report from the United Nations Development Program warns that … explore ways of averting future environmental devastation and fixing the messes that exist now. Warming (8/8) Climate change Causes the spread of disease UN Human Development Report 2011 http://hdr.undp.org/en/reports/global/hdr2011/download/ The health risks posed … a place of ancestry, identity, language, livelihood and community— is a key determinant of health.

* ADVANTAGE 3- ENVIRONMENT
> 

SPS is the ideal clean energy to solve warming – minimal pollution and resource use Garretson, a Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) International Fellow in India, previously the Chief of Future Science and Technology Exploration for Headquarters Air Force, Directorate of Strategic Plans and Programs, 09 (Peter A., “Sky’s No Limit: Space-Based Solar Power, The Next Major Step In The Indo-US Strategic Partnership?”, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/papers/OP_SkysNoLimit.pdf) While no energy source is entirely benign, the SBSP concept has significant things to recommend it for the … the accompanying environmental problems of dumping large amounts of waste heat into rivers or coastal areas. ONLY SPS supplies the power needed for a sustainable energy transition James M. Snead, P.E., is a senior member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) a past chair of the AIAA’s Space Logistics Technical Committee, and the founder and president of the Spacefaring Institute LLC, 5/4/2009, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1 A key element of a well-reasoned US energy policy is to maintain an adequate surplus of dispatchable … expanded, reasonableness dictates that the serious engineering development of SSP be started now.

* ADVANTAGE 4- ECONOMY
> 

It would take a year to put SPS satellites up into space URSI 08 A Japanese research group …. will be needed in one year to launch all materials for the SPS construction. First SPS system is $500 million Rubenchik, Alexander M Rubenchik, is a physicist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, April 2009, “Solar Power Beaming: From Space to Earth”, http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=%E2%80%9CThe+cost+to+deploy+the+first+space-based+solar+energy+system+is+estimated+at+approximately+%24500+million.+A+significant+percentage+of+this+cost+is+attributed+to+the+laser%2C+the+solar+reflector%2Fcollector+systems%E2%80%9D+&hl=en&btnG=Search&as_sdt=1%2C30&as_sdtp=on, Date accessed June 24, 2011 We have described a fully self-contained space- based solar power system capable of efficiently beaming … to gain increased performance and capability in subsequent systems.
Economies of scale reduce cost of SBSP with expansion of energy use Solar High Study Program, “Solar High: Energy for the 21st Century”, March 2011, http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html//jchen Space hardware is expensive. … the aircraft after each flight.//
//SBSP provides the launch market needed to escape this Catch 22 SPS will cost as less than 2 cents per KWH Oil drum 11 Power satellites are an idea that has been around since the late 1960s … kWh power, i.e., half the price of coal (or less).//
//SPS payback will be a $150 Billion per year Oil Drum 11 A research company studying energy and recourses Conventional use of Skylon will deliver about 5 tons per flight to GEO… $150 B per year.//
//SOLVENCY//
//TECH HERE Solaren can do SPS by 2016 SPACE-BASED SOLAR POWER BY 2016? Solaren plans to make it happen by G B Leatherwood on spacefuture.com Leatherwood 11 In 2009, Manhattan Beach, CA-based company Solaren, Inc. signed …. Solaren plans this for 2016—and as of now, the company is on schedule.//
//ECON Solvency Industry Development Tech breakthroughs spur new industry development Komerath et al ,N. Komerath, N. Boechler, S. Wanis School of Aerospace Engineering and Center for International Strategy, Technology & Policy, Georgia Institute of Technology, 2006, “Space Power Grid- Evolutionary Approach To Space Solar Power”, http://scholar.google.com/scholar?start=50&q=development+%22space+based+solar+power%22&hl=en&as_sdt=0,30&as_ylo=2000, Date accessed June 26, 2011 Coupled with current environmental policy issues, … power directly to beamed energy. This is a prospect with a multitude of applications. Economic Transition SPS use prompts a global economic transition to clean tech and job creation Trevor Brown, BA from Indiana University and an MSc from Nanyang Technological University, author focused on political, economic, and military strategy for the medium of space, 6/1/09, The Space Review, “SSP: a spherical architecture”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383///jchen If solar power satellites … wave of innovation arising in complement to the new energy technology SSP has a large pay off in the long term- solves economy Macauley ,Molly K. Macauley, is a writer for Resources for the Future, 2007 “Satellite solar power: Renewed interest in an age of climate change?” http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964607000264#secx16 This study models and analyzes the relationship among SSP, the environment, and electricity reliability. … by providing understanding of conditions under which SSP could be successful.
=Negative= 
A Western Civilization Kritik is the only thing that's been gone for in the 2NR.