===AC=== 

People in need: a group less well-off than actor

Moral obligations: a actions required of individuals, that seek to establish the well being or justice of a society.

V: Justice

Kilcullen (John. Kilcullen, Senior Research Fellow, Humanities at Macquarie University in Sydney, Australian later versions. RAWLS: The ORIGINAL POSITION) www.humanities.mq.edu.au/Ockham/y64113.html

Rawls says that the rules of justice . . . . . bargaining strengths and weaknesses

Sandmann (Research for What? Making Engaged Scholarship Matter" by lorilee R. Sandmann, Brandon Kliwer, Jihyun Kim, Anthony Omerikwa, all directors in University of Georgia)

Behind the veil of ignorance . . . natural and social endowments.

Singer ("A Companion to Ethics" by Peter Singer, pg. 193)

In order to decide from behind a veil of ignorance . . . as if it were my own.

Garret (Dr. Jan Garrett, Sep. 2011, "John Rawls on Justice" Professor of Ethics at Western Kentucky University)

We are to imagine ourselves in what Rawls calls . . . future as well as present.

Sandmann 2

Rawl's conceptualization of justice . . . to accept the ultimate terms.

Contention 1: Equality is essential for the veil of ignorance

A: Rawls: "Rawls," Encyclopedia Britannica
Reviving the notion of a social contract . . . of what constitutes a "good life"


Rawls 2: Each person has the same indefeasible . . . members of society.

B: Lottery of birth

Temkin 2003 (Larry S., professor of philosophy at Rutgers University, specializing in ethics and political philosophy, Egalitarianism Defended)

On the view of egalitarianism . . . will be objectionable.

Jacobs: Richard M. Jacobs, PhD, Professor Educational Leadership and Public Administration at Villanova University

The reason the representatives in the original . . . what is often times called "affirmative action."

Rawls 3

I shall maintain instead . . . from a moral point of view.

Contention 3: Impacts

The Food and Agriculture Organizatinon (OF THE UNITED NATIONS Rome, 2010 The State of Food Insecurity in the World: Addressing food insecurity in protracted crises)

The number of undernourished people . . . within an acceptable period of time.

The World Food Programme (2010) (Hunger, FAQ, 2011, accessed August 14, 2011)

"There is enough food . . . for a healthy and productive life."

NC

Burden: Universal morality

Contention 1: Moral perceptions vary culture to culture.

A: Mackie- J. L. PENGUIN BOKS, Ethics: inventing Right and Wrong (1977)

(The argument from relativity has . . . of objective values)

Binsted: Seth. A DEFENSE OF MORAL RELATIVISM: DAVID WONG & THE LIMITED EMPIRICAL UNDERSTANDING OF HUMAN NATURE

(so in order for the Relativist . . . what a true morality would look like)

NIETZCHE "The Gay Science" Pg. 231
(we who think and feel . . . we who gave and bestowed it)

Velasquez Santa Clara University. www.scu.edu/ethics/practicing/decision/ethicalrelativism.html

(other anthropologists point to . . . the concept of ethical relativism)

Benedict PhD in Anthropology, Defense of Moral Relativism www.opensourcebuddhism.org/matcphilosophy-group6-relativism-abe-paper.htm

(a recent study of some island group . . . into a category of abnormality and vice-versa)

Contention 2: Within culture, moral perception varies

Leiter "Moral Skepticism and Moral /disagreement in Nietache, UChicago Law School)

(these kinds of remarks suggest . . . about the existence of moral facts)