======[[toc]]====== 


=Japan Do It CP= 
It's competitive, dammit


==Solar Power Satellites== 
===1NC=== 
<span class="Underline">Japan solves SPS – motivation to shift away from nuclear reliance, already established cost-competitiveness, and international consortium solves corporate domination</span>
<span class="Underline">William John Cox, American public interest lawyer, retired prosecutor, author and political activist, 3/23/2011, “The Race for Solar Energy from Space,” DA: 9/18/11, http://www.consortiumnews.com/2011/032311b.html -- G.B.</span>

<span class="Underline">Editor’s Note: The idea of… that surround and await us.</span>

==Data Sharing== 
===1NC=== 
<span class="Underline">Japan can receive satellite data from the US</span>
<span class="Underline">Ochiai, 2010, Associate Senior Administrator of Satellite Applications and Promotion Center, JAXA Space Applications Mission Directorate. Mr. Ochiai completed a master’s degree at the Graduate School of Environmental Science, Hokkaido University in 1994. At university he studied geophysics (meteorology). After graduation, he joined NASDA (former JAXA), and was involved in developing the data information service system for several Earth observation satellite missions, including the Advanced Earth Observing Satellite-II (Midori II) and the Advanced Land Observing Satellite DAICHI. In 2006, he was temporarily posted to the head office of the Group on Earth Observations as a architecture and data management expert for the Global Earth Observation System of Systems. He has been in his current position since 2009. “JAXA’s Earth Observation Satellite Highly Praised Worldwide,” http://www.jaxa.jp/article/special/geo/ochiai_e.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Q. What are the benefits of… create positive results.</span>

==Mars== 
===1NC=== 
JAXA should pursue colonization- they have the technology
Gebhardt, 2-9-12, Chris, NASA Spaceflight, “JAXA to build on the past success for future exploration goals,” http://www.nasaspaceflight.com/2012/02/jaxa-builds-past-future-exploration-success/, KHaze

As NASA continues to struggle… the second in 2021.


==Solar Sails== 
===1NC=== 
<span class="Underline">JAXA has power and capabilities to launch solar sails, 2004 launch proves.</span>
<span class="Underline">Jiji Press English news service, 08- newspaper devoted to japans developments in various fields. (11/8/2008, “JAXA Eyes Interplanetary Flight by Experimental Solar Sail”, http://proquest.umi.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqdweb?did=1591166431&sid=6&Fmt=3&clientId=17822&RQT=309&VName=PQD). EE</span>

<span class="Underline">AXA unveiled a plan to equip… to the officials.END</span>


===2NC=== 
<span class="Underline">Japan on track with solar sail mission to Venus, Japan plans to reach Jupiter by 2020.</span>
<span class="Underline">Talcott, 10- senior editor for astronomy magazine. (September 2010, Richard, “Japan on track for Venus”, Vol. 38, Iss. 9, http://proquest.umi.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqdweb?did=2109787521&sid=5&Fmt=3&clientId=17822&RQT=309&VName=PQD). EE</span>

<span class="Underline">Shortly after dawn May 21,… with ion propulsion.</span>


<span class="Underline">Japan has “first to market” advantage, plus development of solar sails is built upon cooperation, Japan has already released specifications of IKAROS design</span>
<span class="Underline">Kieran Carroll, engineer working near Toronto. He has experience with small, low-cost satellites, having led the team that developed the CSA’s MOST space astronomy microsatellite mission, and worked on several other micro- and nanosatellites. He has been developing solar sail system and mission designs for over 20 years, and is currently working on a nanosat-based solar sail technology demonstration mission, 8/9/10, “A Milestone for Solar Sailing,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1677/1 -- g.B.</span>

<span class="Underline">Three weeks ago,… attitude maneuvering performance.</span>


=National Space Council= 
==1NC== 
<span class="Underline">CP text: The United States executive branch should reestablish the National Space Council with the goal of creating a 2012 national Space Policy that includes recommendations for increased space situational awareness.</span>

<span class="Underline">Re-establishing the NSC provides political cover and promotes effective space policy</span>
<span class="Underline">Logsdon , 2011, John M., Director of the Space Policy Institute and Professor of International Affairs at The George Washington University’s Elliott School of International Affairs. Previously, he was also Director of the School’s Center for International Science and Technology Policy. He has written numerous articles and reports on space policy and history and is on the editorial board of the journal Astropolitics. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in physics from Xavier University and a Ph.D. in political science from New York University. “Emerging Domestic Structures: Organizing the Presidency for Spacepower,” http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The Space Commission... requirements and resources."8</span>


<span class="Underline">Space policy recommendations don’t mandate implementation- allows possible back-door changes</span>
<span class="Underline">Foust, 6-27-11, Jeff, editor and publisher of The Space Review. He also operates the Spacetoday.net web site and the Space Politics and NewSpace Journal weblogs, “The national space policy, one year later,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1873/1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The space community... out this policy?</span>


==<span class="Underline">Presidential Leadership net benefit</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">The CP sets a Presidential leadership precedent that spills over into effective military policy</span>
<span class="Underline">Logsdon, 2011, John M., Director of the Space Policy Institute and Professor of International Affairs at The George Washington University’s Elliott School of International Affairs. Previously, he was also Director of the School’s Center for International Science and Technology Policy. He has written numerous articles and reports on space policy and history and is on the editorial board of the journal Astropolitics. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in physics from Xavier University and a Ph.D. in political science from New York University. “Emerging Domestic Structures: Organizing the Presidency for Spacepower,” http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Two of the various... White House structure for space.</span>


====Terrorism==== 
<span class="Underline">Presidential influence key to deter terrorism</span>
<span class="Underline">Yoo, 2001, John, Professor of Law, UC Berkeley School of Law; Visiting Scholar, American Enterprise Institute, “THE PRESIDENT'S CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT MILITARY OPERATIONS AGAINST TERRORISTS AND NATIONS SUPPORTING THEM,” http://www.justice.gov/olc/warpowers925.htm, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Id. at 1460-61. Furthermore, in explaining why… in the present circumstances.</span>


<span class="Underline">Terrorism causes extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Mohammed Sid-Ahmed, Political analyst for Al-Ahram Newspaper for more than 20 years and author of several books on Middle East issues, 8-1-04 [http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]</span>

<span class="Underline">A nuclear attack… all be losers.</span>


====Economy==== 
<span class="Underline">Weak executive leads to Congressional buck passing which kills the economy- hurts innovation</span>
<span class="Underline">Menashi, 2010, Steven, Olin/Searle Fellow, Georgetown University Law Center, and Douglas Ginsburg, Circuit Judge, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, “ Symposium: Presidential Power In Historical Perspective: Reflections on Calabresi and Yoo's the Unitary Executive: Nondelegation and the Unitary Executive,” Lexis, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Madison, of course,… regulating carbon emissions.</span>


<span class="Underline">Economic collapse causes World War III.</span>
<span class="Underline">Walter Russell Mead, Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 1/22/2009, The New Republic, http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/news/2169866/posts</span>

<span class="Underline">None of which means… have to fight.</span>


====Leadership==== 
<span class="Underline">Executive power key to military and diplomatic power</span>
<span class="Underline">Yoo, 2009, John, Professor of Law, UC Berkeley School of Law; Visiting Scholar, American Enterprise Institute. “Review: Unitary, Executive, or Both?” Lexis, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Rather, the Articles of Confederation… they met in Philadelphia.</span>


<span class="Underline">Perception of weakening American foreign policy causes global war</span>
<span class="Underline">Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8, Aaron, professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel, Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, The Dangers of a Diminished America, WSJ, 10/21, Proquest</span>

<span class="Underline">Meanwhile, traditional foreign-policy challenges… continued American leadership.</span>


=Climate Finance= 
==1NC== 
CP Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase funds devoted toward climate finance and energy efficiency.

Climate finance solves warming
Light, 12-6-11, Andrew, Senior Fellow, Rebecca Lefton is a Policy Analyst, and Adam James is a Special Assistant, all specializing in international climate policy on the Energy team at the Center for American Progress. This piece was originally published at the Center for American Progress website. “Climate Finance Is Key to U.S. Climate Credibility and Averting Catastrophic Climate Change,” http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/12/06/382894/climate-finance/, KHaze

As the United States… the near term.



==2NC- 85% Solves== 
Squo innovation solves 85% of emissions- only needs to be deployed
Romm, 9-26-11, Joe, Think Progress, “World’s Engineers: “The Technology Needed to Cut the World’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions by 85% by 2050 Already Exists”,” http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/09/26/329233/world%E2%80%99s-engineers-technology-cut-greenhouse-gas-emissions-exists/, KHaze

The technology needed to… to fulfil their potential.


85% reduction solves the impact
Romm, 9-26-11, Joe, Think Progress, “World’s Engineers: “The Technology Needed to Cut the World’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions by 85% by 2050 Already Exists”,” http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/09/26/329233/world%E2%80%99s-engineers-technology-cut-greenhouse-gas-emissions-exists/, KHaze

Dr Colin Brown,… for closer to 350 ppm.


==2NC- Sufficient== 
Climate finance reduces emissions enough to solve the impact
Light, 12-6-11, Andrew, Senior Fellow, Rebecca Lefton is a Policy Analyst, and Adam James is a Special Assistant, all specializing in international climate policy on the Energy team at the Center for American Progress. This piece was originally published at the Center for American Progress website. “Climate Finance Is Key to U.S. Climate Credibility and Averting Catastrophic Climate Change,” http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/12/06/382894/climate-finance/, KHaze

Climate finance equals… through the decade.


==AT: Climate Finance Bad== 
Some climate finance is inevitable- only question of the amount
Light, 12-6-11, Andrew, Senior Fellow, Rebecca Lefton is a Policy Analyst, and Adam James is a Special Assistant, all specializing in international climate policy on the Energy team at the Center for American Progress. This piece was originally published at the Center for American Progress website. “Climate Finance Is Key to U.S. Climate Credibility and Averting Catastrophic Climate Change,” http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/12/06/382894/climate-finance/, KHaze

Our current finance… and secure American leadership abroad.



=Indian Transparency= 
==1NC== 
CP Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase transparency sales of currently-restricted military technology towards as well as increase bilateral military exercises and security dialogue with the Republic of India.

Strategic understanding solves unilateral and bilateral Pacific initiatives
Curtis, 11-3-11, Lisa, Senior Research Fellow for South Asia and Walter Lohman is Director of the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation. Rory Medcalf is Program Director of International Security at the Lowy Institute for International Policy (Sydney, Australia). Lydia Powell is Head of the Centre for Resources Management and Rajeswari Pillai Rajagopalan, Ph.D., is Senior Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation (New Delhi, India). Andrew Shearer is Director of Studies and Senior Research Fellow at the Lowy Institute. “Shared Goals, Converging Interests: A Plan for U.S.–Australia–India Cooperation in the Indo–Pacific,” http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/11/shared-goals-converging-interests-a-plan-for-u-s-australia-india-cooperation-in-the-indo-pacific, KHaze

Abstract: The U.S., Australia, and India… they seek to promote.


==2NC== 
Expanding military exercises and arms sales increases cooperation
Curtis, 11-3-11, Lisa, Senior Research Fellow for South Asia and Walter Lohman is Director of the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation. Rory Medcalf is Program Director of International Security at the Lowy Institute for International Policy (Sydney, Australia). Lydia Powell is Head of the Centre for Resources Management and Rajeswari Pillai Rajagopalan, Ph.D., is Senior Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation (New Delhi, India). Andrew Shearer is Director of Studies and Senior Research Fellow at the Lowy Institute. “Shared Goals, Converging Interests: A Plan for U.S.–Australia–India Cooperation in the Indo–Pacific,” http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/11/shared-goals-converging-interests-a-plan-for-u-s-australia-india-cooperation-in-the-indo-pacific, KHaze

Defense Cooperation The U.S., Australia, and India have… were held near Okinawa.



=Ocean Pipes CP= 
==1NC== 
<span class="Underline">CP Text: The European Union should fund the placing of vertical pipes in the ocean, using wave motion to pump cool water to the surface, as described by James Lovelock.</span>

<span class="Underline">CP solves warming</span>
<span class="Underline">The Telegraph, 8 (Roger Highfield, “James Lovelock’s plan to pump ocean water to stop climate change,” 11/10/08, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/scienceandtechnology/science/sciencenews/3308337/James-Lovelocks-plan-to-pump-ocean-water-to-stop-climate-change.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">A plan to save our… Earth's capacity to cure itself."</span>


=Red Lines= 
==1NC== 
CP Text: The United States federal government should articulate red lines for adversary behavior towards the United States’ space assets.

Red lines are key to deterrence and allow international attribution
McNeil, 3-5-12, Sonia, Matthew Kleiman is Corporate Counsel at the Draper Laboratory in Cambridge, Massachusetts. He also teaches space law at Boston University and chairs the Space Law Committee of the American Bar Association’s Section of Science & Technology Law. Sonia McNeil is a law clerk at Draper Laboratory. She is a third-year student at Harvard Law School, an editor of the Harvard National Security Journal, and a Teaching Fellow at Harvard College. “Red lines in outer space,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2038/1, KHaze

Space systems, however, are now… informs progress in the other.


==2NC== 
Current red lines for cyber space are too vague to be useful- opening the discussion alone solves the perception and deterrence
McNeil, 3-5-12, Sonia, Matthew Kleiman is Corporate Counsel at the Draper Laboratory in Cambridge, Massachusetts. He also teaches space law at Boston University and chairs the Space Law Committee of the American Bar Association’s Section of Science & Technology Law. Sonia McNeil is a law clerk at Draper Laboratory. She is a third-year student at Harvard Law School, an editor of the Harvard National Security Journal, and a Teaching Fellow at Harvard College. “Red lines in outer space,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2038/1, KHaze

With respect to non-kinetic threats,… multi-domain challenges.


=STEM= 
==1NC== 
CP text: The fifty states should lease House of Representatives and Senate Buildings, hospitals, and state fairgrounds to raise all necessary funds to guarantee the enforcement of the most objectively rigorous uniform proficiency standards for science, technology, engineering, and mathematics through career and technical education programs. The fifty states should administer a common proficiency test modeled after the National Assessment of Educational Progress. The fifty states should mandate that creationism is not taught in their schools.

Counterplan solves education
Lips and McNeill 9 (4/15, Dan Lips is Senior Policy Analyst in Education in the Domestic Policy Studies Department, and Jena Baker McNeill is Policy Analyst for Homeland Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, “A New Approach to Improving Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math Education,” http://www.heritage.org/research/education/bg2259.cfm)

On February 17, 2009,… learning in STEM fields.


==2NC== 
===Solves Heg=== 
That’s key to military technology
Krepinevich 8 (Andrew, President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, an independent policy research institute established to promote innovative thinking about defense planning and investment strategies for the 21st century, Dr. Krepinevich is an accomplished author and lecturer on US military strategy and policy, extensive strategic planning experience in national security and technology policy, including his military service in the Department of Defense’s Office of Net Assessment and on the personal staff of three secretaries of defense, “An Army at a Crossroads,” http://www.csbaonline.org/2006-1/5.AboutUs/Staff_Directory.dir/Krepinevich,_Andrew.php)

The Army’s vision… at an acceptable cost.


CP solves hegemony -
1. Recruiment
Shelton, 9 (fmr. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Dalton, fmr. Secretary of the Navy, (General Hugh Shelton, John H. Dalton, “Strong military needs early education focus,” Politico, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0109/17180.html)

Our country is fighting… tradition of American military strength.



2. Technological innovation
Paarlberg, 4 (Robert L. Paarlberg is Professor of Political Science at Wellesley College, and Associate at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University. Much of his research concentrates on international agricultural policy. http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/international_security/v029/29.1paarlberg.html)

Can the United States… schools in grades K-12. 


===Solves Economy=== 
CP's key to sustain economic growth-
A. Productivity and growth
Isaacson, 9 (Aspen Institute CEO and President, Walter, ‘How to Raise The Standard In America's Schools,’ TIME, pg. Proquest)

The U.S. will, believe it… American standards for its schools.


B. Competitiveness and GDP
Paulus, 9 – Professor @ North Hennepin Community College (Dr. Eugenia, “STEM Education,” The Star Tribune, http://www.startribune.com/yourvoices/42109707.html?elr=KArksLckD8EQDUoaEyqyP4O:DW3ckUiD3aPc:_Yyc:aUdcOy9cP3DieyckcUsI)

STEM is the acronym for… to maintaining America's global leadership. 


===Solves Warming=== 
CP solves warming-

1. Even though demand for green practices is growing, a lack of CTE prevents the utilization of renewable sources - kills the transition
Hyslop, 9 (Alisha, Association for Career and Technical Education assistant director of public policy; 10+ years working with CTE; (former) Manager of Federal Affairs at the ACTE; covers secondary and postsecondary policy issues, including funding for CTE; worked with Florida House of Representatives; worked with career and technical student organizations on a local, state, and national level; Bachelors in Public Relations and Family and Consumer Sciences Education, Florida State University; working on (as of 2007) Masters in Career and Technical Education, Virginia Tech University, “CTE’s Role in Energy and Environmental Sustainability,” Techniques, ACTE Online, April 2009 (condensed version of the ACTE Issue Brief “CTE’s Role in Energy and Environmental Sustainability” released in the fall of 2008 http://www.acteonline.org/uploadedFiles/Publications_and_E-Media/files/files-techniques-2009/Theme_2(1).pdf)

The Concerns The American… sustainability workforce challenge.


2. Workforce stops emissions and allows mitigation to stop the terminal impact
Pew, 4 [Pew Center on Climate Change, March, No. 7 “U.S. Technology and Innovation Policies to Address Climate Change,” http://www.pewclimate.org/docUploads/PEW_In-Brief_7.pdf]

Government policies will be… spur technological change. 



=Unilateral ASAT Ban CP= 
==1NC== 
<span class="Underline">CP Text: The United States federal government should declare that it will not intentionally damage a satellite or test anti-satellite weapons.</span>

<span class="Underline">Unilateral ban solves weaponization and increases negotiations</span>
<span class="Underline">Grego and Wright, 10 – *Laura, senior scientist in the Global Security Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, **David, senior scientist and co-director of the UCS Global Security Program (“Securing the Skies,” Union of Concerned Scientists, Nov. 2010, www.ucsusa.org/securingtheskies) KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The United States should unilaterally declare… space security negotiations.</span>


=<span class="Underline">Taiwan CP</span>= 
==<span class="Underline">1NC</span>== 
CP Text: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its security commitment to the Republic of China (Taiwan).

CP solves US-China arms race
Glaser, 2011, April, Charles, Professor of Political Science and International Affairs and Director of the Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University. “Will China's Rise Lead to War?” Lexis, KHaze

The prospects for avoiding… reduction of tension.


=<span class="Underline">Threaten Pakistan CP</span>= 
==<span class="Underline">1NC</span>== 
<span class="Underline">CP Text: The United States federal government should threaten to unilaterally strike terrorist safe havens if the Islamic Republic of Pakistan does not end terrorist support and condition aid to Pakistan on compliance against terrorism. In the event of non-compliance, the US should substantially reduce, but not end, civilian aid to Pakistan.</span>

<span class="Underline">Pakistan will say yes and the CP solves Pakistan instability and safe havens</span>
<span class="Underline">Khalizad, 10-19-10, Zalmay, a counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and the president of a consulting firm, was the ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq and the United Nations during the George W. Bush administration. “Get Tough on Pakistan,” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/20/opinion/20khalilzad.html?_r=1&scp=2&sq=pakistan&st=cse, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">WHEN I visited Kabul… after the United States departs.</span>


==<span class="Underline">2NC</span>== 
<span class="Underline">Status quo measures will sever civilian aid to Pakistan and empower anti-American groups- a slight decrease in aid resets the relationship to induce Pakistani cooperation and prevents them from blaming the US, ensuring security</span>
<span class="Underline">Traub, 7-22-11, James, contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine, where he has worked since 1998. From 1994 to 1997, he was a staff writer for The New Yorker. He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard University. He taught at the Maulana Azad College in Aurangabad, India. He was also a reporter for the New York Post and a senior editor of the Saturday Review. “Less Is More,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/07/22/less_is_more, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The last straw came in… can help best by getting out of the way.</span>