[[toc]]
=Cites= 
If you need any cites email Dylan McDonald at [[mailto:bigmac192837@gmail.com|bigmac192837@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==Bronx - 1AC ORS== 


===**Inherency**=== 
**Status quo funding is just lip service – won’t result in ORS capabilities**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson-Freese, 2009</span> (Joan, faculty of the Naval War College focusing on space programs and policies, “Heavenly Ambitions”, University of Pennsylvania Press, http://books.google.com/books/about/Heavenly_ambitions.html?hl=sl&id=O3UCySR-_ZcC, )
"Everett also argues for reexamining...more near-term programs."

<span class="Underline">**ORS increasing now but its still not enough**</span>
**Sheridan 10**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">—</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Lt Gen, USAF Commander, BS, Mechanical Engineering, University of Connecticut; MBA, Bryant College, Smithfield, Rhode Island) is the commander of the Space and Missile Systems Center and program executive officer (Space), Air Force Space Command (AFSPC), Los Angeles AFB, California. Lt Gen Sheridan is responsible for managing the research, design, development, acquisition and sustainment of space and missile systems, launch, command and control, and operational satellite systems. General Sheridan’s experience includes acquisition leadership of aircraft, simulator and classified space programs; requirements development across all Air Force space programs; and operational leadership in four different national space programs. He has served as military assistant to the assistant secretary of the Air Force for space, commandant of Air Command and Staff College, director of requirements at Headquarters AFSPC, and most recently as the deputy director of the National Reconnaissance Office</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (John, “Operationally Responsive Space and the National Security Space Architecture”, May, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]],)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">"The Department of Defense (DoD) defines...architecture must account for it."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12px;">T**hus the plan – The United States federal government should provide all necessary funding and support for the development and the deployment of operationally responsive space capabilities** </span>**<span style="background-color: white; color: black; font-size: 10pt;">which entails a launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, small satellite development and architecture, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, space situational awareness, and hardening of military satellites.</span>**

=== === 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Advantage One – Hegemony</span>
**Multiple threats to US Space assets now – __only__ deterrence solves**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 08</span>** (Bruce W. MacDonald, Senior Director of the Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program with the USIP Center for Conflict Analysis and Prevention, served as senior director of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the US, China, Space Weapons and U.S. Security, Council Special Report No. 38, September 2008, http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=o0GkabrNftIC&oi=fnd&pg=PP2&dq=defensive+space+weapons&ots=OTkmlH1rBW&sig=9u5wh9QaeAWplSd9Q6Pc9lTgo5g#v=onepage&q=defensive%20space%20weapons&f=false, )
"While China represents the...chances for misunderstanding and miscalculation."

**ORS key to rapid reconstitution of space assets – deters space attacks and solves accidents**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Flores 07</span>** (Peter, Major in the USAF, “UNTAPPED POTENTIAL: THE INFLUENCE OF INTERNATIONAL REGIMES AND ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE ON THE NEAR-SPACE CONCEPT”, June, pdf, )
"Today, space activities are...in best case, hours."

**Only a risk of solvency- a space war or space attacks will stop all use of space**
**Forde****n, 8**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>
**"If the short-term military... from hundreds to thousands of years."**

**ORS is key to effective deterrence strategies**
Doggrell 6 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Les Doggrell, Senior Project Engineer with Aerospace Corporation. A Vision for the Future of Military Space , Air and Space Power Journal. Summer 2006. NP. http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/doggrell.html )</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">"In future conflicts...developing satellite-navigation systems."</span>

**Any attack or accident would destroy power projection and global leadership**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Farfour and Yee 08</span>** (George R. Farfour and Kenneth E. Yee, commander, 595th Operations Support Squadron, 595th Space Group, Space Innovation and Development Center, at Schriever AFB in Colorado and a National Defense Intelligence College and operations officer, 595th Operations Support Squadron, 595th Space Group, Space Innovation and Development Center at Schriever AFB in Colorado. No Space Capabilities—No Joint Fight, High Frontier Volume 4 Number. February 2008. Pages 38-39. http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080226-050.pdf )
"Taken together, a coordinated...a speed bump by comparison."

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, hegemonic decline leads to transition wars – the impact is extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye 90 </span>(Joe, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations and former Dean of the Kennedy School at Harvard and one of the most influential and respected contemporary IR scholars, pg 17)
"Perceptions of change in the...as we know it may end."

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">United States Hegemony solves all conflicts</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 6</span>** (Bradley, Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at, The National Interest, December)
"A grand strategy based...equivalent of a blitzkrieg."

**Independently, perceived vulnerability causes the US to preemptively strike China—that escalates**
**Tellis, Ph.D., 7**(Ashley, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Ph.D. from U Chicago, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”)
"Finally, the growing Chinese...attacks an further misperception."

**The impact is extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Straits Times 2k** [</span>Jun 25, LEXIS]
"The high-intensity scenario...sovereignty above everything else."

**ORS is key to long term space superiority**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SPACE-X 04</span>** (AMERICAN SPACE TRANSPORT COMPANY, “Inside the Pentagon”, http://www.spacex.com/media.php?page=31)
"Experiments using TacSats could...according to this view."

**Effective space deterrence solves global deterrence and stability**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 10</span>** (Forrest E. Morgan, Senior Political Scientist at the RAND Corporation. Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space. 2010. Page 14-15 http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf )
"Although this assessment focuses...general deterrence and stability."

=== === 
===Advantage Two is Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance systems=== 

Many ISR systems are failing and cannot continue to operate—ORS is key to enhance ISR, create an effective ISR system, and fix the current system
Petraeus 10. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David H. Petraeus, former commander of U.S. troops in Afghanistan. Statement of General David H. Petraeus, U.S. army commander, U.S. Central command, Before the Senate Armed Service Committee on the Posture of U.S. central command, Senate and Armed Services Committee. 3/16/10, page 47. [[http://wenku.baidu.com/view/c4866174f46527d3240ce069.html]] )</span>
“Detailed and timely tactical… applications, and communication systems.”

<span class="Underline">**ORS allows for a complete and efficient ISR system---this isn’t possible in the status quo**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rao et al. 08** ( </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Anvil V. Rao, Assistant Professor, Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. A Concept for Operationally Responsive Space Mission Planning Using Aeroassisted Orbital Transfer, AIAA. April 28–May 1, 2008, Pages 2-3)</span>
<span class="Underline">“The current paradigm for…</span> <span style="text-decoration: none;">tropical storms and hurricanes.”</span>

====**<span style="color: black;">Scenario 1 is Iraq</span>**==== 

**Iraqi commanders use the U.S.’s ISR**
**Harris 09.**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Barry Harris, staff writer. Stabilizing Iraq Provides Intelligence Lessons for Afghanistan, The Cutting Edge. 6/15/09. NP )</span>
“<span style="text-decoration: none;">The robust ISR currently</span>…<span style="color: black; font-size: 11.5pt;"> combat capabilities in Afghanistan.”</span>

ISR helps the Iraqi military deter insurgent activity. Zachary 09.
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Stacia Zachary, USAFCENT Combat Camera News Team. Iraqi Air Force brings ISR capabilities online, U.S. Air Force Central. 8/30/09. NP. )</span>

<span style="color: black;">“Intelligence collection has become… and deterring insurgent activity.”</span>

**ISR solves for Iraqi instability---solves drug trafficking, weapons trafficking, and insurgencies**
**Downs 08** (Michael L. Downs, Lieutenant Colonel of the U.S. Air Force. <span style="color: black;">Rethinking the Combined Force Air Component Commander's Intelligence, Surveillance, and</span>

<span style="color: black;"> Reconnaissance Approach to Counterinsurgency, Air and Space Power Journal. 9/1/08, NP)</span>
“To counter the insurgent threats… supporting their planning and conduct.”

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Insurgency attacks create Iraqi instability Jha et al. 10</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Manoj K. Jha, a professor at Morgan State University. Modeling the Insurgent Activities with a Geographic Information System: A Case Study from Iraq, The World Scientific and Engineering Academy and Society. 1/19/10. Page 214. )</span>
“The strategies followed by the insurgents… express dissatisfaction about something”

Internal instability in Iraq sparks regional wars and terrorism
**Baker and Hamilton, 08.**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(James Baker and Lee Hamilton, both Co-Chairs of the Iraq Study Group. The Iraq Study Group Report, The Baker Institute. 4/21/08. Page 28. )</span>
“Continuing violence could lead toward… terrorist attacks within his country.”

**Terrorism leads to extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sean Hannity, Fox News Political Analyst, 2004</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism, pg. 6]</span>
“But the terrorists are no mere… may be worse than ever.”

Middle East wars cause global nuclear war
Steinbach 2<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">(John, nuclear specialist at the Center for Research on Globalization, Center for Research on Globalization, March, , AD 7/7/11) </span>
“Meanwhile, the existence of**…** <span style="text-decoration: none;">trigger a world conflagration."</span>

====**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Scenario 2 is Australia</span>**==== 

<span class="Underline">**Japan needs a better ISR system and it relies on the U.S. for that---recent developments prove an enhanced system is key to Japanese and regional security**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cronin and Giarra 10** </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Patrick Cronin is a Senior advisor and the Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a new American Security, Paul Giarra is the President of Global Strategies & Transformation and a retired navy Commander. Robotic Skies Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and the Strategic Defense of Japan, Center for a New American Security. 12/17/10, Page 6)</span>
<span class="Underline">“In recent years, Japan’s security</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">… to enhance its own capabilities.”</span>

<span class="Underline">**The U.S’s ISR is specifically key to Japanese ISR—U.S. is currently a key factor for Japanese and regional peace and security because of its ISR**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cronin and Giarra 10**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Patrick Cronin is a Senior advisor and the Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a new American Security, Paul Giarra is the President of Global Strategies & Transformation and a retired navy Commander. Robotic Skies Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and the Strategic Defense of Japan, Center for a New American Security. 12/17/10, Page 13)</span>
<span class="Underline">“</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">It is good news for Japan</span><span class="Underline">…</span> <span style="text-decoration: none;">for Japanese ISR planning.</span><span class="Underline">”</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Japanese and East Asian security are major focus points for Australia—decreases trigger backlash</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">BBC 7 </span>**(BBC News, the department of the BBC responsible for the gathering and broadcasting of news and current affairs. Australia in Japan security deal, BBC News. 3/13/07. NP)
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">“The prime ministers of Japan…</span><span style="color: black;">Defence Minister Fumio Kyuma</span><span class="Underline">”</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">U.S-Australian relations key to prevent cyber terrorism </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Garamone 10</span>**
<span style="color: black;">(Jim Garamone, staff writer for American Foreign Press Service. Deputy Secretary Discusses U.S.-Australia Alliance, Global Security. 2/13/10. NP)</span>
“We’ve fought together side… the theft of intellectual property.”

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cyber terrorism leads to global nuclear war</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Fritz 09</span>**
<span style="color: black;">(Jason Fritz, Former Captain, U.S. Army and a writer for the Center for New American Security. Hacking Nuclear Command and Control, International Commission for Non Nuclear Proliferation and Disarmament, July 2009. Pages 1-2)</span>
“All computers which are connected… command and control centers directly.”

**<span style="color: black;">We win on timeframe--the timeframe is 15 minutes</span>****<span style="color: black;"> Spillius 10 </span>**
<span style="color: black;">(Alex Spillius, staff writer. Cyber attack 'could fell US within 15 minutes, The Daily Telegraph. 5/8/10, NP)</span>
“<span style="color: black;">THE United States must prepare… would be hit by power cuts.”</span>

**Cyber attack threat high and probable – shutdown collapses the economy and infrastructure and it goes global**
**TRADOC 6** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(US Army Training and Doctrine Command, Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Assistant Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence. Critical Infrastructure Threats and Terrorism, DCSINT. 08/10/06. Handbook No. 1.02, pages 9-11.)</span>
“To highlight the importance…<span style="color: black; font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;"> equipment to compete in cyberspace."</span>

**Econ collapse leads to nuclear war.**
**Friedberg and Schoenfeld, 2008**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif; font-size: 11pt;">"</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Then there are the dolorous… travails with external adventures."</span>

==Blake - 1AC ORS== 
===**Inherency**=== 
**Status quo funding is just lip service – won’t result in ORS capabilities**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson-Freese, 2009</span> (Joan, faculty of the Naval War College focusing on space programs and policies, “Heavenly Ambitions”, University of Pennsylvania Press, http://books.google.com/books/about/Heavenly_ambitions.html?hl=sl&id=O3UCySR-_ZcC, )
"Everett also argues for reexamining...more near-term programs."

<span class="Underline">**ORS increasing now but its still not enough**</span>
**Sheridan 10**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">—</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Lt Gen, USAF Commander, BS, Mechanical Engineering, University of Connecticut; MBA, Bryant College, Smithfield, Rhode Island) is the commander of the Space and Missile Systems Center and program executive officer (Space), Air Force Space Command (AFSPC), Los Angeles AFB, California. Lt Gen Sheridan is responsible for managing the research, design, development, acquisition and sustainment of space and missile systems, launch, command and control, and operational satellite systems. General Sheridan’s experience includes acquisition leadership of aircraft, simulator and classified space programs; requirements development across all Air Force space programs; and operational leadership in four different national space programs. He has served as military assistant to the assistant secretary of the Air Force for space, commandant of Air Command and Staff College, director of requirements at Headquarters AFSPC, and most recently as the deputy director of the National Reconnaissance Office</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">(John, “Operationally Responsive Space and the National Security Space Architecture”, May, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]],)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">"The Department of Defense (DoD) defines...architecture must account for it."</span>

**ORS-1 was launched—we have the means to do the plan**
**Graham 6/29**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (William Graham, staff writer. Orbital Minotaur I launches with ORS-1 following eventful count, NASA Spaceflight. 6/29/11. NP)</span>

<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">"Orbital Sciences Corporation have </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">launched...systems for future missions."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12px;">T**hus the plan – The United States federal government should provide all necessary funding and support for the development and the deployment of operationally responsive space capabilities** </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">which entails a launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, small satellite development and architecture, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, space situational awareness, and hardening of military satellites.</span>**

===**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Advantage one is Nuclear Primacy: </span>**=== 
**Continuous US access into space and augmenting current US satellite capabilities are necessary for nuclear deterrent capabilities and to prevent irrational first strikes**
**Burke 6 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deputy Director in the Missile Defense Agency w/ operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lieutenant Colonel Alan W. Burke, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor,” Air War College, 17 April 2006, pg. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA476999&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf/]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Implications of the Erosion of US Space...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">without fear of retribution.57 Pg. 8-12</span>


**Nuclear first strike capabilities rely on space deterrence – creates an incentive to attack, adversaries recognize it’s America’s Achilles Heel**
**Morgan 10-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ph.D. in policy studies (Forrest E., 2010 “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space A Preliminary Assessment” RAND)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Given </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">the great </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">extent </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">to...</span>attacks, and rapid escalation.


**__We solve 3 internal links:__**

1. Rapid reconstitution
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Flores 07</span>** (Peter, Major in the USAF, “UNTAPPED POTENTIAL: THE INFLUENCE OF INTERNATIONAL REGIMES AND ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE ON THE NEAR-SPACE CONCEPT”, June, pdf, )

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Today, space activities are constrained...days or, in a best case, hours.18</span>


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">2. Deterrence by denial</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Harrison et al 9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Roger G. Director, Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, United States Air Force Academy, Space And Defense Volume Three Number One, Summer 2009)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Deterrence by denial is a policy...</span>deterrence is that much stronger.

3. Small satellites
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SPACE-X 04</span>** (AMERICAN SPACE TRANSPORT COMPANY, “Inside the Pentagon”, http://www.spacex.com/media.php?page=31)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Experiments using TacSats could ...</span>battlefield, according to this view.

**Loss of nuclear primacy causes global nuclear war**
**Caves 10 –Senior Research Fellow in the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction at the National Defense University**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John P. Caves Jr., “Avoiding a Crisis of Confidence in the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,” Strategic Forum, No. 252, January 2010)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Perceptions of a compromised U.S. nuclear...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">what nuclear-armed terrorists alone could inflict.</span>


**We control multiple scenarios for escalation:**

**a) Primacy deters challengers - military capabilities are stabilized in great power relations**
**Morgan and Paul 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Patrick M. and T.V. Complex Deterrence: Strategy In the Global Age)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Even though they want to retain nuclear...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">acceptance, worldview, and capabilities in mind.24</span>

**b) <span class="Underline">Counterforce deters regional nuclear use, increasing the credibility of US damage-limitation attacks </span>**
<span class="Underline">**Glaser and Fetter 5 -** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor and Deputy Dean of the Irving B. Harris Graduate School of Public Policy Studies at the University of Chicago and Professor and Dean of the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Charles L. and Steve Fetter “Counterforce Revisited; Assessing the Nuclear Posture Review's New Missions,” International Security, UP AND ATOM: NEW NUCLEAR CHALLENGES; Pg. 84, Fall 2005)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Underlying these constraints on U.S. foreign...</span><span class="Underline">U.S. intervention in the region</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


<span class="Underline">**And that discourages all nuclear use** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Spring 3 - Fellow in National Security Policy at Heritage** </span>
<span class="Underline">(Baker, ”Ten Principles for Combating Nuclear Proliferation,” [[http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/893776/posts]], /10/2003)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">1. U.S. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">military and arms control responses...</span>less certain of U.S. security commitments.

c) The U.S. will inevitably fight conventional wars against nuclear-armed adversaries---only nuclear primacy prevents escalation to nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lieber & Press 9</span> - Keir A. Lieber, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, and Daryl G. Press, Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania, November-December 2009, “The Nukes We Need: Preserving the American Deterrent,” Foreign Affairs, p. 50-51
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This second criticism has merit. Nevertheless, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the benefits...</span>position<span class="underline"> abroad </span>rests<span class="boldunderline"> largely </span>on a bluff<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span class="Underline">Advantage 2 is Co-op</span>=== 
**There is a space cold war – Policy makers will act on perception and retaliate**
**Discovery News 11/1**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“SATELLITE BATTLEGROUND IN SPACE? China may be tinkering with U.S. satellites and experts say other countries are likely doing the same.” Tue Nov 1, 2011 http://news.discovery.com/space/satellites-cold-war-hacking-china.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Space has</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> long </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">been a battleground...</span>it's hard to be too indignant."



<span class="Underline">**ORS is necessary for effective Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance as well as Space Situational Awareness** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Levin et al. 07**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Carl Levin, Chairmen of the Committee on Armed Service and Appropriations. Levin is of Armed Services. Plan for Operationally Responsive Space, DOD. 4/20/07, Page 5)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Within the area of Space Force Enhancement...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">to ensure responsive space operations.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ISR capabilities control the Internal Link to all of your Disads- it’s the enabler for every military function and it’s key to verify treaties—status quo ISR capabilities aren’t enough</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DOD 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance, http://space.au.af.mil/guides/stg/stg_isr.pdf)</span>

<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Joint Vision</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> 2020 depends on information...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">disseminated products for specific warfighters and other users. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plan solves cyber security—data sharing, attribution, deterrence, and co-op</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dudney 2011-</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Robert S. Dudney is a former editor in chief of Air Force Magazine “Hard Lessons at the Schriever Wargame” February 2011 <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2011/February%202011/0211wargame.aspx/]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> With </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">some of</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">our</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">strategic</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">nuclear...policies about space and cyber issues.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cyber terrorism leads to global nuclear war</span>** **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Fritz 09</span>**
(Jason Fritz, Former Captain, U.S. Army and a writer for the Center for New American Security. Hacking Nuclear Command and Control, International Commission for Non Nuclear Proliferation and Disarmament, July 2009. Pages 1-2)
“All computers which are connected… command and control centers directly.”

**Cyber attack threat high and probable – shutdown collapses the economy and infrastructure and it goes global**
**TRADOC 6** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(US Army Training and Doctrine Command, Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Assistant Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence. Critical Infrastructure Threats and Terrorism, DCSINT. 08/10/06. Handbook No. 1.02, pages 9-11.)</span>
“To highlight the importance…<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;"> equipment to compete in cyberspace."</span>


**Cooperative frameworks are inevitable but will fail without the plan**

**Rendleman and Ryals 11 -** * <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a J.D. and BS and was second lieutenant through the Air Force</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">ROTC AND </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">BSEE, JD, and MA and a Force Space Command as a contractor in space control and as an instructor for the past five years at the Space Innovation and Development Center’s Advanced Space Operations School,</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Col. James Randleman is Col. Robert Ryals is a “The New National Space Policy: More is Needed” February 2011, High Frontier Volume 7, No. 2, pg online </span>**



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Interest in international space cooperation is not new...</span>community to fully embrace the concept.**

4 internal links to space cooperation and treaties
1. Verification is key to successful treaties—3 warrants

Bruneau and Morgan 2006**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Richard Bruneau is a researcher at the Canadian Centre for Treaty Compliance, he is completing research for the Space Security Index with Project Ploughshares and Foreign Affairs Canada. Scott G. Lofquist-Morgan, Canadian Centre for Treaty Compliance Norman Paterson School of International Affairs Carleton University, “Verification Models for Space Weapons Treaties: A flexible, layered approach as a negotiating tool)</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The purpose of verification is to increase confidence...</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">increase confidence and cost-effectiveness</span>**


2. Data Sharing- U.S. leadership and data processing facilities are vital for successful cooperation
Robinson 11 - **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Resident Fellow @ European Space Policy Institute (ESPI)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jana,“Transparency and confidence-building measures for space security,” Space Policy 27 (2011) 27e37)</span>**



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Build space TCBMs with like-minded partners...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and value-added capabilities. Pg. 36-37</span>**


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">3. Space leadership is key to sucessful cooperation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Stone 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (space policy analyst and strategist, MBA from Georgetown </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Chris Stone, 3-2011, “American leadership in space: leadership through capability)</span>**



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">When it comes to space exploration and development, including national...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">programs and objectives “worthy of a great nation”.</span>**



4. ORS specifically solves because it solves miscalculation
Rendleman 10 – Retired Colonel in U.S. Air Force
**(James R., “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Astropolitics: The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, Volume 8, Issue 2 & 3, 2010, Pages 220 - 255 )**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Samuel Black argues that </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">‘‘space assurance’’...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">to assure viability of its systems. Pg. 221-223’</span>**


**Now the impacts**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Multilateral cooperation in space on is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Perhaps of even greater concern is...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>**

War is space occurs through miscalculation and leads to extinction
Mitchell, et al 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The dizzying speed of space warfare...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>**


Non-effective space treaties lead to every scenario for nuclear and space war—turns your offense—even if weaponization is inevitable the plan would contain the impacts
Huntley et al 10** – US Naval Postgraduate School [Wade L. Huntley, Joseph G. Bock (Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Notre Dame) & Miranda Weingartner (Weingartner Consulting), “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” __Space Policy__, Volume 26, Issue 1, February 2010, Pages 25-38]

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">4.3. Scenario A: “Back to the Future” - “</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Back to the...</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">which might name the kinds of weapons not to be used. </span>

==Crestian 1ac - ORS== 
===**Inherency**=== 
**Status quo funding is just lip service – won’t result in ORS capabilities**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson-Freese, 2009</span> (Joan, faculty of the Naval War College focusing on space programs and policies, “Heavenly Ambitions”, University of Pennsylvania Press, http://books.google.com/books/about/Heavenly_ambitions.html?hl=sl&id=O3UCySR-_ZcC, )
"Everett also argues for reexamining...more near-term programs."

<span class="Underline">**ORS increasing now but its still not enough**</span>
**Sheridan 10**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">—</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Lt Gen, USAF Commander, BS, Mechanical Engineering, University of Connecticut; MBA, Bryant College, Smithfield, Rhode Island) is the commander of the Space and Missile Systems Center and program executive officer (Space), Air Force Space Command (AFSPC), Los Angeles AFB, California. Lt Gen Sheridan is responsible for managing the research, design, development, acquisition and sustainment of space and missile systems, launch, command and control, and operational satellite systems. General Sheridan’s experience includes acquisition leadership of aircraft, simulator and classified space programs; requirements development across all Air Force space programs; and operational leadership in four different national space programs. He has served as military assistant to the assistant secretary of the Air Force for space, commandant of Air Command and Staff College, director of requirements at Headquarters AFSPC, and most recently as the deputy director of the National Reconnaissance Office</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">(John, “Operationally Responsive Space and the National Security Space Architecture”, May, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]],)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">"The Department of Defense (DoD) defines...architecture must account for it."</span>

**ORS-1 and past technology demonstrations prove we have the means to do the plan**
**Graham 6/29**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (William Graham, staff writer. Orbital Minotaur I launches with ORS-1 following eventful count, NASA Spaceflight. 6/29/11. NP)</span>

<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">"Orbital Sciences Corporation have </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">launched...systems for future missions."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12px;">T**hus the plan – The United States federal government should provide all necessary funding and support for the development and the deployment of operationally responsive space capabilities** </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">which entails a launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, small satellite development and architecture, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, space situational awareness, and hardening of military satellites.</span>**


===**Advantage 1 is Air Power**=== 
**We have multiple threats to our space power**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 08</span>** (Bruce W. MacDonald, Senior Director of the Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program with the USIP Center for Conflict Analysis and Prevention, served as senior director of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the US, China, Space Weapons and U.S. Security, Council Special Report No. 38, September 2008, http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=o0GkabrNftIC&oi=fnd&pg=PP2&dq=defensive+space+weapons&ots=OTkmlH1rBW&sig=9u5wh9QaeAWplSd9Q6Pc9lTgo5g#v=onepage&q=defensive%20space%20weapons&f=false, )
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">While China represents </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the most prominent ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">for misunderstanding and miscalculation</span>

**Space and airpower are symbiotic – our commercial sector and warfighting capabilities depend on both while naval power depends on strong space power as well**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tiwary and Verma 03</span>** (AK, Air Commodore, Bharat, former Cavalry Officer, editor of //Indian Defence Review//, “Aerospace Power: The Need for Unity of Command and Control,” Apr-Jun 2003)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">So what does Aerospace Power represent?...interdependence between air and space power</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">ORS solves space power--2 internal links</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">1. Deterrence by denial</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Harrison et al 9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Roger G. Director, Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, United States Air Force Academy, Space And Defense Volume Three Number One, Summer 2009)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Deterrence by denial is a policy...</span>deterrence is that much stronger.



2. Small satellites

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SPACE-X 04</span>** (AMERICAN SPACE TRANSPORT COMPANY, “Inside the Pentagon”, http://www.spacex.com/media.php?page=31)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Experiments using TacSats could ...</span>battlefield, according to this view.

Aerospace Industry deteriorating now
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wynne and Moseley 08</span>** (Michael, Secretary of the United States Air Force, T. Michael, Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force, “United States Air Force Posture Statement 2008”, United States Department of Defense, 2/27/2008, http://digitalcommons.unl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1011&context=usafresearch)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">America’s public and private aerospace industrial...vulnerability for our national defense</span>


ORS specifically solves – boosts competition and innovation

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chaplain 8</span>** (Cristina, Director: Acquisition and Sourcing Management, Space Acquisitions: DOD Is Making Progress to Rapidly Deliver Low Cost Space Capabilities, but Challenges Remain Government Accountability Office, http://www.gao.gov/htext/d08516.html, 4/25/08)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">As we have previously reported, managing...theyby promote competition and innovation.</span>


Aerospace industry key to air power

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wynne and Moseley, ‘08</span>** (Michael, Secretary of the United States Air Force, T. Michael, Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force, “United States Air Force Posture Statement 2008”, United States Department of Defense, 2/27/2008, http://digitalcommons.unl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1011&context=usafresearch)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Equally worrisome is the rapidly shrinking...force structure to project influence</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">An strong air force prevents Indo-Pak conflict and South China Sea conflict</span>**

<span class="Heading2Char">Tellis 98</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Ashley, PhD U of Chicago, Senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. //Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century//, http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The first key implication derived ...revolutionary in military affairs</span>


**Indo-Pak war causes extinction**



**Robock and Toon 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado, received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 20 10 Scientific American Magazine –<span style="color: #1c51a8;">[[@http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/RobockToonSciAmJan2010.pdf]]</span> )</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">By deploying</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">modern</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">computers and...enough to kill robust species</span>__

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">And, South China Sea war draws in major powers and escalates</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WALDRON 97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [Arthur, Professor of Strategy and Policy – Naval War College, Commentary, 3-1, http://www.aei.org/publications/pubID.7442,filter.all/pub_detail.asp DA 7/26/10]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Then there is Southeast Asia, which...</span>__or India, or <span class="underline">Japan--or the United States.</span>__



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Even a risk of a scenario goes global and nuclear--</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">draw-in inevitable</span>**

Jon **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Landay</span>**, 3/10/**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>**, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, p. lexis

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">3,700-mile </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">arc that begins...</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">shaky international nonproliferation regime.</span>


===<span class="Underline">**Advantage 2 is Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance systems**</span>=== 

<span class="Underline">**ORS is necessary for effective ISR and SSA**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Levin et al. 07**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Carl Levin, Chairmen of the Committee on Armed Service and Appropriations. Levin is of Armed Services. Plan for Operationally Responsive Space, DOD. 4/20/07, Page 5)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Within the area of Space Force Enhancement, ORS...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ensure responsive space operations.</span>



<span class="Underline">**ORS is critical to a successful ISR**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Adang and Gee 07** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Thomas C. Adang,Systems Director, Operationally Responsive Space Office (ORS) James G. Gee,Principal Director, Development Planning and Projects, leads support to the Air Force's Space and Missile Systems Center Developmental Planning Directorate that includes concept development, technology integration, utility and alternative analyses, and development of future systems. </span><span style="color: #660000; font-size: 7pt;">Creating An Agile, All-Space Architecture </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Cross link. Summer 2009, NP)</span>



<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The ORS Office selected the Space and...</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">satellite communications, space situational awareness, and ISR.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ISR capabilities control the Internal Link to all of your Disads- it’s the enabler for every military function and it’s key to verify treaties—status quo ISR capabilities aren’t enough</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DOD 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance, http://space.au.af.mil/guides/stg/stg_isr.pdf)</span>

<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Joint Vision</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> 2020 depends on information...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">disseminated products for specific warfighters and other users.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plan solves cyber security—data sharing, attribution, deterrence, and co-op</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dudney 2011-</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Robert S. Dudney is a former editor in chief of Air Force Magazine “Hard Lessons at the Schriever Wargame” February 2011 </span><span style="background-color: white; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2011/February%202011/0211wargame.aspx/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">With </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">some of</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">our</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">strategic</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">nuclear...policies about space and cyber issues.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cyber terrorism leads to global nuclear war</span>** **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Fritz 09</span>**
(Jason Fritz, Former Captain, U.S. Army and a writer for the Center for New American Security. Hacking Nuclear Command and Control, International Commission for Non Nuclear Proliferation and Disarmament, July 2009. Pages 1-2)
“All computers which are connected… command and control centers directly.”

**Cyber attack threat high and probable – shutdown collapses the economy and infrastructure and it goes global**
**TRADOC 6** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(US Army Training and Doctrine Command, Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Assistant Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence. Critical Infrastructure Threats and Terrorism, DCSINT. 08/10/06. Handbook No. 1.02, pages 9-11.)</span>
“To highlight the importance…<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;"> equipment to compete in cyberspace."</span>




<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Independently, net centric warfare prevents all future conflict </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chang-hee 5</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Chang-hee Nam, professor of Inha University, South Korea, who formerly worked for the Korea Institute f or Defense Analysis, “The Realignment of the USFK in the Military Transformation and South Korea's Defense Reform 2020”, [[http://www.nids.go.jp/english/event/symposium/pdf/2005/e2005_05.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">By contrast with the LPP, the relocation...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">no longer fight or react coherently. 11</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Their defense doesn’t apply – NCW is a paradigm shift, not about technology</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Croser 7</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Caroline Croser, PhD from Lancaster University in Defence and Security Studies, Nov. 7, “ORGANISING COMPLEXITY: MODES OF BEHAVIOUR IN A NETWORKED BATTLESPACE”, [[http://www.army.gov.au/lwsc/Docs/WP_133.pdf]])</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Perhaps </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">one of the most common preconceptions...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">others’ and ‘transforming how we fight’.</span>





**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Specifically, ISR is key to support SEA SHIELD which allows us to sustain naval power in the face of anti-access strategies </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Burch ‘8</span>__** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Eric Burch, Master Chief Petty Officer, Information Technology Specialist (ITCM), U.S. Navy, citing a November 2002 U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings article by Vice Admiral Mike Bucchi, U.S. Navy (Ret), and Admiral Mike Mullen, U.S. Navy; “Explanation of Key Maritime Transformational Concepts,” Combined Joint Operations from the Sea, NATO Center of Excellence, March 2008,)</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">SEA SHIELD embraces emerging technologies and concepts...</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">and security</span>____<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> in an uncertain century.</span>__



====__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Two scenarios</span>__==== 
==== ==== 
====__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">1st is Iran</span>__==== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Loss of access ensures closure of the Strait of Hormuz</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Dyer ‘10</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(J.E. Dyer, journalist and former intelligence analyst, served internationally for US Naval Intelligence from 1983 to 2004, “Naval Decline: It Starts with the Small Stuff,” 5-12-2010, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://theoptimisticconservative.wordpress.com/2010/05/12/naval-decline-it-starts-with-the-small-stuff/]]</span>)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">Each of the services has come in for...</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">destroyers, attack submarines – and lots of them</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>





**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And draws out intervention to clear the Strait, risking escalation</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Talmadge ‘8</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Caitlin Talmadge, doctoral candidate in political science at the Security Studies Program, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, former fellow at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University, “Closing Time: Assessing the Iranian Threat to the Strait of Hormuz,” International Security, 33(1), Summer 2008, p.115-116,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://web.mac.com/caitlintalmadge/Site/Publications_files/Talmadge%20article.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __The U__</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">nited</span> __<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">tates’</span> __<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ultimate military superiority...</span>____<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">increase in the price of oil would seem likely</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Triggers nuclear use and extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Hirsch ‘5</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Jorge, Professor of Physics, University of California, San Diego, Ph.D., University of Chicago, “Can a Nuclear Strike on Iran Be Averted”, 11-21-2005, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.antiwar.com/orig/hirsch.php?articleid=8089]]</span>)</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">Now that we have outlined what is very...</span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">erase Earth's population many times over</span>__**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>









**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A strong navy solves all risks of conflict, de-escalates all conflicts, is key to co-op, and is key to the economy</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">McGrath ‘10</span>__** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Commander Bryan G. McGrath, U.S. Navy (ret.), Director of Consulting, Studies, and Analysis, Delex Systems, “The Value of Preponderant American Seapower,” 10-19-2010,)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Why Seapower? __American Seapower is the most flexible...__</span>__in support of ongoing land operations.__



====__<span style="color: #333333;">Second is </span>__**Bab al-Mandeb**==== 

**AQAP will close of Bab al-Mandeb—they have intent, capacity, and determination to do it**

**Thomas 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Matthew, MA Nonproliferation and Terrorism Studies, “Al Qaeda in the Land of Faith and Wisdom: The Fall of Saleh and March on Al-Aqsa,” Monterey Institute of International Studies, May 8)</span>


__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">AQAP is well aware of the positive implications of...</span>__vein of life for the Americans.

<span class="Underline">**Closing the strait collapses the economy and causes Iran expansionism**</span>
<span class="Underline">**UPI 10.** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Al-Qaida threatens to close key oil artery,” Feb. 24, 2010. UPI.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">SANAA, Yemen, Feb. 24 (UPI)...</span>effort to secure allies and markets.



<span class="underline">Miscalculation ensures escalation</span>

<span class="underline">Lynch 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Marc associate professor of political science and international affairs at George Washington University, “Upheaval: U.S. Policy Toward Iran in a Changing Middle East”, Center for New American Security, June)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">As it struggles to recalibrate...</span>and game-changing war.



Most likely scenario for nuclear conflict

Russell 9 <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(James A. "Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Nuclear War and Escalation in the Middle East", http://www.nps.edu/academics/sigs/ccc/people/biolinks/russell/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf, AD 7/7/11) AV</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Strategic stability</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">in...</span>substantial risk for the entire world.










==Harvard 1AC - EDDE (I <3 Miles)== 
===<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Inherency</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Debris destroying satellites is inevitable in the status quo—cascade effect and insufficient measures</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ansdell ’10 </span>[Megan – Graduate student in International Science and Technology Policy at GWU Elliott School of International Affairs, focusing in space policy. Princeton University Journal of Public and International Affairs. Spring. [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]] “Active Space Debris Removal”]
Although the probability of… __vehicle orbital stages from orbit__” (Johnson 2009a, 2).


**The brink is now- we must take action immediately or cascade effect is inevitable, making space unusable for centuries**
**Imburgia 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USAF </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joseph, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May)</span>

__The “cascade effect” is “the… the problem is, unfortunately, only worsening.__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">However,</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> even a limited debris removal system removes the threat of the cascade effect </span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Ansdell 2010 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Megan Ansdell is a second year graduate student in the Master in International Science and Technology Policy program at the George Washington University’s Elliott School of International Affairs, where she focuses on space policy., “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment”, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, pg. 18-19]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">As previously discussed, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">a recent… United States for removal services.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The risk of space debris increasing now – no mechanism exists for preventing a cascade effect</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Bradley and Wein 2009</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Andrew M. Bradley, Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering, Stanford University and Lawrence M. Wein, Graduate School of Business, Stanford University, February 2009, Advances in Space Research, Science Direct] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Orbital debris generated by…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">extremely slow time scale.</span>


Thus the plan – The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding and support for the <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">development and deployment of 12 ElectroDynamic Debris Eliminators for the purpose of eliminating space debris</span>


===Advantage 1: Hegemony=== 
Primary enemy of U.S. satellites is space debris
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Matthews 11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William, Defense News, Gannet Government Media Corporation, leading military and government news, //Keep Space Debris Free US Congress Told,// March 20, 2011, [[http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=3999596&c=AIR&s=TOP]], )</span>
No nation benefits more from<span class="Underline">… that adds to debris </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">4 internal links</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1. GPS</span>**
A single collision could start a chain reaction and destroy our GPS satellites – DOD assessment proves
Clay <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dillow</span>, writer for Pop Sci magazine, 05-27-<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>, “Pentagon: A Space Junk Collision Could Set Off Catastrophic Chain Reaction, Disable Earth Communications”, http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2010-05/dod-space-junk-tipping-point-collision-could-set-catastrophic-chain-reaction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Every now and again someone…</span> Earth technological dead zones.

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">GPS is key to heg, innovation, jobs, the economy, exports, and trade—status quo proves</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **Pham, 11** – Economics Ph.D. @ George Washington University – Nam D., June, “The Economic Benefits of Commercial GPS Use in the U.S. and The Costs of Potential Disruption” </span>[[http://www.saveourgps.org/pdf/GPS-Report-June-22-2011.pdf|__http://www.saveourgps.org/pdf/GPS-Report-June-22-2011.pdf__]]<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The commercial stakes are high.</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> The downstream…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">consumer oriented) or military users. </span>

**Econ collapse leads to global nuclear war.**
**Friedberg and Schoenfeld, 2008**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]</span>
__Then there are__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the dolorous </span>__consequences… with external adventures__


**2. Battle planning and military communication**
**Imburgia 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USAF </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joseph, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May)</span>

__These gloomy prognostications about… if not forever lost.172__

<span class="Author-Date">3. US action on space debris is key to US space leadership</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ansdell 10 (Megan Ansdell, Graduate student at GWU International and Science policy program at Elliot school of IR. 2010, “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment” <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space debris increasingly threatens… U.S. foreign policy objectives.</span>


Space leadership key to maintain US hegemony
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stone 11</span> (David, Space Policy analyst and strategist, “American Leadership in Space: Leadership through Capability,” 3/14/11 [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1]])
First, let me start by saying that… technological and political example.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">4. Intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, UAVs and precision-guided weapons—this is also key to readiness</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Imburgia 4-4</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">-2011 (Lieutenant Colonel Joseph S. Imburgia is a Judge Advocate in the United States Air Force and is presently </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">assigned as a legal exchange officer to the Directorate of Operations and International Law, Defence Legal, Australian Defence Force, Canberra, Australia. He is a member of the Tennessee and the Supreme Court of the United States bars, and he is a member of the Australian and New Zealand Society of International Law, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk”) </span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">These gloomy prognostications…</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">space capabilities should also be vital.</span>__



**Readiness is working – army force regeneration is keeping readiness high**

**McHuch and Casey Jr., 2010** [John M., Secretary of the Army and George W., Chief of Staff, United States Army, “Statement before the Committee on Armed Services, U.S. Senate,” February 23, http://armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2010/02%20February/McHugh-Casey%2002-23-10.pdf]

__With the pace of continuous…__ major deployments end.

Satellites provide military communication, connectivity, and information—these are key to readiness
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Watts 01</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Barry, Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, Center for Strategic and Budget Assessments, The Military Use of Space: A Diagnostic Assessment, February 2001, Pg. 2,)</span>

As will become apparent, these…if not several decades.

Lack of readiness leads to war. These wars go nuclear.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flourney 08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michele Flournoy, Center for a New American Security, Strengthening the Readiness of the U.S. Military, Prepared Statement of Michèle A. Flournoy, testimony to the House Committee on Armed Services, http://militarylies.typepad.com/military_lies/reserves/, 2/14/08,)</span>

At the same time, the **U**nited…Air Force's readiness challenges derive



**Specifically, readiness contains and prevents escalation and war**

**Spencer, 2000** [Jack, Research Fellow at Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies, “The Facts About Military Readiness”, Heritage Foundation, September 15th, [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2000/09/BG1394-The-Facts-About-Military-Readiness|www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2000/09/BG1394-The-Facts-About-Military-Readiness]]]

__America's national security requirements… thereby preserving peace.__


ISR makes heg sustainable – increases damage capability, but lessens troop cost
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Posen 03</span> (Barry R., Professor of Political Science at MIT, and Member of its security studies program, “Command of the Commons,”

//International Security// Vol. 28 No. 1 Summer 2003 [[http://web.mit.edu/ssp/people/posen/commandofthecommons.pdf]])
An electronic “ying circus…<span style="font-size: 12pt;">making it a very valuable ally</span>.
**All of your turns are inevitable—the US will always be engaged globally and pursue a unilateral approach to global affairs it just depends how well these goals can be accomplished**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael C. </span>**Horowitz**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, assistant professor of Political Science at The University of Pennsylvania, as well as an FPRI scholar, </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Dan A. </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shalmon</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Senior Analyst at Lincoln Group, LLC, “The Future of War and American Military Strategy,” 2/23/</span>20**09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Orbis, Vol. 53, Iss. 2, ScienceDirect</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is important to recognize… America's role in the global order.24 </span>


No chance of multipolarity—loss of US hegemony causes apolarity creating a global power vacuum and ensuring global nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ferguson 04</span> professor of history at New York University's Stern School of Business and senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University (Niall, “A World without Power”, Foreign Policy )

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Could an apolar world today…</span><span class="underline0">not-so-new world disorder</span>

**United States Hegemony solves all conflicts**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 6</span> (Bradley, Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at, The National Interest, December)

<span class="underline0">A </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">grand</span><span class="underline0"> strategy based on…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> missions are the equivalent of a blitzkrieg</span>


===**Advantage 2 is Miscalc**=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Loss of satellites due to debris causes miscalc</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">UCS, ‘8</span>. Union of Concerned Scientists, a collection of academics and professionals. “Space Debris from Anti-Satellite Weapons,” April, [[http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nwgs/debris-in-brief-factsheet.pdf]].

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Debris in low Earth</span>…<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">have an ASAT capability.</span>

**War is space occurs through miscalculation and leads to extinction**
**Mitchell, et al 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The dizzying speed of space…**military conflict ever seen**.</span>__

Space debris will destroy early warning satellites, resulting in an accidental nuclear war with Russia
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lewis, 4</span> – postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy (Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span>)

This is the second of two scenarios__…__forces to operate safely.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">US-Russia war leads to extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bostrom 2002</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nick, PhD, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A much greater existential</span><span class="underline0">…</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

Hair trigger alert ensures full-scale nuclear war within minutes
Morton **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mintz</span>**, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2001</span>** [former chair of the Fund for Investigative Journalism and a former Washington Post reporter, The American Prospect, Two Minutes to Launch, [[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]]]

__Hair-trigger alert… **by checklist, by rote.”**__


===Advantage 3 is Crisis escalation=== 

<span class="Underline">Satellites are key to prevent wars from escalating—3 internal links</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">a. Satellites prevent warfare by making it impossible to sneak across borders </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dunstan & Szoka, ‘9</span> – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">James Dunstan practices space and technology law at Garvey Schubert Barer. Berin Szoka is a Senior Fellow at The Progress & Freedom Foundation, a Director of the Space Frontier Foundation, and member of the FAA’s Commercial Space Transportation Advisory Committee. “Beware Of Space Junk: Global Warming Isn’t the Only Major Environmental Problem,” Tech Liberation Front (TLF), [[http://techliberation.com/2009/12/18/beware-of-space-junk-global-warming-isnt-the-only-major-environmental-problem/]]. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">As world leaders meet in</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> surviving true climatic catastrophes. </span>

b. Recon and surveillance are vital to mutual deterrence, preventing extinction
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Jinyuan </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Su, 10</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – The Silk Road Institute of International Law, School of Law, Xi'an Jiaotong University, China and Visiting Fellow, The Lauterpacht Centre for International Law, University of Cambridge, UK. “The “peaceful purposes” principle in outer space and the Russia-China PPWT Proposal,” PDF. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nothing of what the</span>…<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> deployment or operations.59 </span>

c. It’s try or die – debris threats rise exponentially
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. **NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. </span><span class="underline0">Johnson</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has </span><span class="underline0">projected…per year</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> starting in the year 2020</span>



===<span class="Underline">Now onto Solvency</span>=== 
EDDE is affordable and effective at removing space debris—only 12 are needed
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pearson</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> et.al </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jerome Pearson, Ohio Eta ’61, is president of STAR, Inc., a small business in Mount Pleasant, SC, that has developed aircraft, spacecraft, and space-tether concepts for DOD and NASA. He invented the Earth and lunar space elevators, developed multi-winglets for lowered aircraft drag, published engineering solutions to global warming and space debris, and conceived the propellantless electrodynamic spacecraft EDDE. Before founding his firm, he was an engineer at NASA Langley and Ames research centers and a branch chief for the Air Force Research Laboratory. He has degrees in engineering and geology and is author of nearly 100 technical publications, including invited articles for Encyclopaedia Britannica and New Scientist. An associate fellow of AIAA, a fellow of the BIS, and a member of the International Academy of Astronautics, ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR, 2010, [[http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf]])</span>

The ElectroDynamic Debris Eliminator (EDDE) is a low-cost…large debris objects in LEO.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">No turns—even if EDDE were hit, it still works or could safely de-orbit</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Pearson 10 – </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">President of STAR, Inc., a small business in Mount Pleasant, SC he founded in 1998 that has developed aircraft and spacecraft technology under contracts to Air Force, NASA, DARPA, and NIAC, Mr. Pearson has degrees in engineering and geology, and is the author of nearly 100 technical articles, including invited articles for //Encyclopaedia Britannica// and //New Scientist//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Jerome Pearson,</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 14 January 2010.; Accessed 6/20/11; “ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR”; </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Star Technology and Research, Inc. USA; http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Because there are many units…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to align them vertically. </span>

EDDE is the best and 12 can remove all space debris - Its lightweight and propellantless mechanism make EDDE vehicles both cost effective and energy efficient
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pearson</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> et.al-</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jerome Pearson, Ohio Eta ’61, is president of STAR, Inc business that has developed concepts for DOD and NASA; invented the Earth and lunar space elevators, developed multi-winglets for lowered aircraft drag, published engineering solutions to space debris, and conceived spacecraft EDDE., he was an engineer at NASA Langley and Ames research centers and a branch chief for the Air Force Research Laboratory, ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR, 2010, [[http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf]], )</span>
These rates are possible over altitudes…<span class="underline0">Twelve EDDEs could remove all 2465. </span>


Unilateral action is necessary – the United States must take the lead in space debris cleanup to develop the necessary technology and build international trust
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ansdell ’10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Megan – Graduate student in International Science and Technology Policy at GWU Elliott School of International Affairs, focusing in space policy. Princeton University Journal of Public and International Affairs. Spring. [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]] “Active Space Debris Removal”]</span>

Need to Initiate Unilateral Action… such as China and Russia.










=Negative= 
See Fort Lauderdale MT

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Fort Lauderdale (FL) - Zack Marks & Miles Taylor|http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/2011-2012+-+Fort+Lauderdale+%28FL%29+-+Zack+Marks+%26+Miles+Taylor]]
==Strategies== 

===Bronx=== 
**Round 2 vs Space Elevator**
1nc: OTEC adv CP, XO CP, China bashing ptix, weaponization DA, Space Debris DA, Case

2nc:OTEC advantage cp, weponization DA, Ptix
1nr: Case, XO CP

2nr: OTEC adv cp
Weaponization DA
Case

**Round 4 vs SPS**
1nc: China Bashing Ptix, Weaponization DA, XO CP, OTEC adv CP, T-increase, Case

2nc: Ptix, Wep, OTEC
1nr: Case, XO

2nr: Ptix
Case

**Round 5 vs DSCOVR**
1nc: Weaponization DA, XO CP, OTEC adv CP, china bashing ptix, T-increase, case

2nc: Wep, ptix, otec, case
1nr: heg bad as internal nb to xo

2nr: XO CP with heg bad as an internal net benefit

===Blue Key=== 
**Round 2 vs SPS**
1nc: Weponization DA, Super committee Ptix, china co-op adv CP, Privitization CP, T-increase, case

2nc: Wep DA, Ptix, Priv CP
1nr: chin co-op adv CP, Case

2nr: Wep DA
Case
China co-op adv CP

**Round 3 vs SPS**
1nc: Wep DA, Super Committee ptix, Priv CP, case
Case
Wep DA
Politics (super committee)

**Round 6 vs Helium 3**
1nc: Wep DA, Super Committee Ptix, Priv CP, case

2nc: Wep DA, Ptix, econ adv
1nr: Priv CP, heg adv

2nr: case
Wep DA

===Blake=== 

**Round 2 vs SPS**
1nc: Payroll Tax Cuts ptix, GEO DA, Priv CP, FSE CP, T-increase, case

2nc: Ptix, priv cp, fse cp, geo DA
1nr: case

2nr: Politics (Payroll Tax Cuts)
Case

**Round 3 vs SPS**
1nc: Wep UQ CP, Frontier K, Wep DA, Payroll Tax cuts ptix, case

2nc: Wep UQ CP, wep DA, Frontier K
1nr:ptix, case

2nr: Frontier K

**Round 5 vs Shuttles**
1nc: Priv CP, Wep UQ CP, wep DA, Payroll trax cuts, Frontier K

2nc: Wep uq cp, wep da, Frontier K
1nr:case

2nr: Frontier K

===Crestian=== 
Round 1 vs SPS
1nc: politics (payroll tax cuts), wep DA, wep uq cp, priv cp, frontier K, case
2nc: politics, wep da, wep uq cp, frontier
1nr: priv cp, case
2nr: politics and case

Round 4 vs SPS
1nc: politics(payroll tax cuts boehner political capital), wep DA, wep uq cp, priv cp, frontier K, case
2nc: frontier, politics, wep da, wep uq cp
1nr: priv cp, case
2nr: frontier K

Round 5 vs SPS
1nc: politics(payroll tax cuts boehner political capitol), wep DA, wep uq, priv cp, environmental apocalypse K, case
2nc: politics, wep da, wep uq cp, resource wars/warming adv
1nr: Environmental apocalypse K, priv CP, heg/econ adv
2nr: politics and case

Quarters vs Space Supremacy (Gulliver MZ's aff)
1nc: wep DA, wep uq cp, china co-op adv cp, politics (payroll tax cuts), case
2nc: wep da, wep uq cp, china co-op adv cp
1nr: politics and case
2nr: wep uq cp, wep DA, case


===Harvard=== 
Round 1 vs Civil SSA
1nc: wep da, politics (mortgage refinancing), on ground sensors CP, wep uq CP, case
2nc: Wep DA, Wep uq cp: on ground cp, case
1nr: politics DA( with intrinisicness bad)
2nr: intrinsicness bad, wep DA, case

Round 3 vs dtn
1nc: politics DA, Wep uq cp, wep da, frontier K, case
2nc: frontier K, case, wep DA, wep uq cp
1nr: politics
2nr: frontier K

Round 4 vs space elevator
1nc: politics DA (dedev impact), wep DA, fund SBSP CP, frontier K, case
2nc: politics DA, wep DA, frontier K
1nr: fund SBSP CP, case
2nr:frontier K

Round 7 vs Earth observation satellites (climate denial/racism)
1nc: politics DA (dedev impact), wep DA, do ACE, SDO, STEREO CP, cap k
2nc: cap K, wep DA, CP
1nr: politics, case
2nr: cap K

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]