[[toc]]
=Jan/Feb= 

Imminence Aff

**Contention 1: The logic of immanence is flawed**

**A. Current understandings of self defense require the victim to prove they reasonably thought their life was in "imminent" danger- that they would soon be killed. This legal doctrine takes an excessively narrow focus and excludes the context of relationships that are unique to the domestic sphere. Traditional moral and legal analysis fails to take into account the gendered context of domestic violence making it inadequate.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Many battered women who kill their abusers are charged with murder and</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">actions and the defendant's lethal response. n115</span>

**B. Gendered analysis reveals the biased nature of current moral reasoning. Morality must take context into account. Situational factors like different physical abilities, social leverage, unresponsiveness of the legal system, and the concept of "reason" make domestic violence uniquely different from other instances of self defense. This requires a different notion of what is morally permissible in response.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Another problem in self-defense jurisprudence for battered women relates to the fact that </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the law of self-defense</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">opposed to victims of other types of violence.</span>

<span class="Underline">**C. Analysis of lesser alternatives to violence like leaving the relationship miss the point. Domestic violence creates a unique atmosphere of intimidation and anxiety. Repeated threats of violence and loss of life alter rational cost benefit assessments for the victim. Applying traditional "objective" analysis of the morality of self defense misses this point entirely.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">A related problem is the courts' perception of a woman's role in domestic violence situations. As is clear from Professor</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Certainly, that cannot be justice.</span>

**D. Gendered analysis proves self defense is morally permissible. A wide angle view of the gender politics at work in domestic violence reveals that ASD, or anticipatory self defense, is a morally acceptable response to repeated instances of domestic violence. This is supported by international and domestic legal precedent. While lethal violence may not be "imminent", the fact that it is rationally perceived as "inevitable" makes ASD morally permissible.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The heart</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> of this article __is whether it should be legal to permit an individual to rely on__ a theory</span>...
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the law needs to consider the possibility of anticipatory self-defense</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>


**E.** **Use of Deadly Force Is Justified Because the Social Contract Has Been Broken by the State**
Elisabeth **Ayyildiz** [J.D., Chicago-Kent College of Law, 19**95**]. The American University Journal of Gender & the Law, 1995. 4 Am. U. J. Gender & Law 141. When Battered Woman's Syndrome does not go far Enough: The Battered Woman as Vigilante
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Vigilantism as a permissible mode of self-help for battered</span>__...
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">at vigilantism is morally justified by the state's failure to uphold its end of the compact</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. n85 </span>

**F. Use of deadly force is necessary to preserve the victims autonomy- this makes it morally permissible**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Joshua </span><span class="Underline">**Dressler** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Professor of Law, Ohio State Univ. College of Law]. Battered Women and Sleeping Abusers: Some Reflections. 3 Ohio St. J Crim. L., 457, 200</span><span class="Underline">**6**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> I reject the forfeiture theory as morally unacceptable, although others may not. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Is there</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">there is a less extreme way to resolve the problem.</span>


**G. Only deadly force provides the victim with sufficient safety**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Elisabeth </span><span class="Underline">**Ayyildiz**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [J.D., Chicago-Kent College of Law, 19</span><span class="Underline">**95**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]. The American University Journal of Gender & the Law, 1995. 4 Am. U. J. Gender & Law 141. WHEN BATTERED WOMAN'S SYNDROME DOES NOT GO FAR ENOUGH: THE BATTERED WOMAN AS VIGILANTE </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">To some, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the death of the abuser may</span>..
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">may not be available to the battered woman</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**Contention 2:**

**A. Traditional descriptions of self defense require an immediate threat to the victims life. Applying this to domestic violence is inadequate because it ignores that domestic violence operates throw a slow burn campaign of terror, not brilliant flash points**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">This article posits that many </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">courts have engaged</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">imminent" fear of death or bodily harm. n10</span>



**B. This replicates a broader pattern of gendered politics in international relations. Issues of domestic violence are deemed less important that flashpoints of war on the agenda of policy makers. Gender analysis reveals that domestic violence and international violence are inextricably linked- they both operate as a result of a system of hierarchical, socially constructed gender binaries like public/private, inside/outside and self/other. Gender analysis of domestic violence is a crucial first step in shattering the global political context that makes international conflict possible.**
**Shepherd 09**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> [Laura J. Dept of Political Science and International Studies, U of Birmingham (UK), “Gender, Violence and Global Politics: Contemporary Debates in Feminist Security Studies,” Political Studies Review, V7 I2, Apr]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;"> According to conventional accounts of international relations (IR), scholars focus on</span>..
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">inform our research, with potentially profound implications. </span>


==[[#Jan/Feb-Discourse Neg]]Discourse Neg== 
**A. Domestic violence is a discourse produced to justify repressive and counterproductive crime control policies. Despite its particularly context in this debate, "domestic violence" is an apolitical tool, a "women's issue", that essentializes female identity at the exclusion of a more thorough interrogation into the way social inequality produces violence**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">KATHLEEN J. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">FERRARO</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">, PhD, Prof @ Arizona State Hypatia vol. 11, no. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14px;">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">(Fall 19</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">96</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8px;">In the 1990s, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">"domestic violence</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8px;">" </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">represents a convoluted, contradictory discourse</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8px;">subvert the cooptation of our efforts to save our lives. </span>

**B. The affirmatives focus on domestic violence blinds us to the root cause of their impacts—defining violence in solely domestic terms obscures the broader problem of societal control which makes violence inevitable and turns the case**
**Hooks 2k**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—distinguished prof of English, City College, City U @ NY (Bell, Feminism is for everybody: passionate politics, GoogleBooks, 62-66,)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Just as a vast majority of citizens in this nation believe in equal pay for equal work </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">most</span>__...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">way they know to handle difficult situations.</span>

**A. Identifying someone as a victim is an attempt to dehumanize them and turn them into a political pawn. The category victim is so powerful that even rights and protections granted based on it are counterproductive**
**Elias 04**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Robert Elias, Professor of Politics, University of San Francisco, Winter, pg. 225, Lexis Nexis )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Since victimhood and offenderhood, and victim and offender labels, are inconsistent with a capacity for autonomy, they should be viewed only as temporary descriptions. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Claiming **rights for victims as victims**</span>__...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">everything but respect the victim's autonomy. n37</span>

**B. Discourse shapes reality. The linguistics of the resolution are the MOST important part. This is empirically proven by past "victim" representations- failure to interrogate the language of the resolution makes debate meaningless- it is a logical prior question to all arguments contained within the AC**
**Ryan 90**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Professor of English, Northeastern University.(Michael, 43 Vand. L. Rev. 1771, *, “SYMPOSIUM: Law, Literature, and Social Change: ARTICLE AND COMMENT: Social Violence and Political Representation.”, 43 Vand. L. Rev. 1771, Lexis Law) </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Representations signify and produce</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> different kinds of </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">attitudes and actions</span>__...
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">images that are as much projections of desire as depictions of real things. </span>__

**C. Refusal to live a singular identity as the truth is the alternative. Deconstruction of the category "woman" provides an empirical example of the possitive effect discursive criticism can have on dangerous, static identity categories like victim. Voting negative doesn't endorse abuse, it endorses the idea that everyone should be free to express their identity in a way they see fit and not have category shackles imposed on them by the resolution**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">VERONICA</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> VASTERLING</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Hypatia vol. 14, no. 3 (Summer 19</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">99)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Moreover</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, it would be politically undesirable to reduce the exclusionary effects of</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> noncompulsive</span>...
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">this category enable solidarity and empower feminist politics. </span>
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Moral Status AC=== 

The resolution is a question of whether animals posses the qualities necessary to be considered under the scope of Justice. Justice refers to the proper distribution of goods and rights but prior to determining how to allocate rights, it is necessary to identify which beings are entitled to them which requires an evaluation of the being’s moral status.

Proving that justice requires any species or category of animals be given rights textually affirms the entirety of the resolution because in order for those rights to exist justice would require the recognition of the concept of animal rights. In addition, requiring the affirmative to defend that all animals deserve rights would impose an impossible burden due the diversity of beings with different capacities and qualities identified as animals.

Rights are not definitionally inviolable which is evident from the numerous occasions in which they are superseded by competing interests or conflicting rights claims. Rather, rights exist as requirements that an agent’s interests be considered and deemed important. Therefore, because having moral status implies one is entitled to certain protections or considerations, it is equivalent to possessing some type of right. Chandola writes.
Chandola, MV. “Dissecting American Animal Protection … legal rules over another. n78

In addition, “rights” is a diverse category that include a wide variety of protections and requirements. Because it is impossible to determine from the resolution which rights and their corresponding requirements ought to be evaluated, the round must focus on a determination of the more general possession of moral standing.

And, the core affirmative literature advocates equal consideration of animals without recourse to rights discourse, instead they identify rights as “moral standing”, which means requiring the affirmative to prove animals have rights excludes significant affirmative positions, decreasing topic education and putting the aff at an unfair structural disadvantage through the removal of key ground. This interpretation prevents negatives from running tangential critiques of rights discourse while conceding that animals ought to be given equal consideration, thereby increasing education through preservation of the central resolutional debate of human obligations towards animals.

Because there are a large number of theories of justice that deal with diverse categories of desert, such as theories of compensation, distribution of goods, and fairness, isolating any particular theory of justice for use in a framework fails to address the entirety of the resolution. If a being possesses moral standing, justice must require the recognition of it because if justice were to disregard certain relevant characteristics of beings, it could not properly assign due. As such, a sufficient affirmative burden is to demonstrate that nonhuman animals have moral standing.

I defend that justice requires the recognition of the rights of companion animals. The ASPCA defines companion animals.
ASPCA. American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. http://www.aspca.org/
The ASPCA believes that companion … close daily relationship with humans.

In determining whether this is true, presume aff in the absence of offensive evidence for either side to combat social bias against animals. Degrazia writes.
David Degrazia. Taking Animals Seriously: Animal Life and Moral Status. Cambridge University Press. 1996. Book.
If animals are not due … against animals is very high. (51-52)
Therefore, even if the resolution is phrased in a way that gives permissibility ground to the negative, you affirm in the absence of any argument for or against recognition of animal status because this evidence argues we have a reason to affirm in the absence of a compelling reason not to.

A) Animal Interests

Any ethical system or system of justice is built around the protection of agent interests and therefore require respect for the interests of others. Degrazia writes. David Degrazia. Taking Animals Seriously: Animal Life and Moral Status. Cambridge University Press. 1996. Book.
Interests (or, collectively, welfare or well—… , not just for preference interests. (39)

Anatomical and physiological similarities between humans and other animals makes the absence of intentionality unlikely. Degrazia writes.
David Degrazia. Taking Animals Seriously: Animal Life and Moral Status. Cambridge University Press. 1996. Book.
Many, perhaps most, animals behave … , birds, herps, fish, and invertebrates? (134)
Therefore, because animals possess interests, they are due moral considerations which satisfies the affirmative burden.

B) Pain


Animals are capable of feeling pain. Degrazia writes.
David Degrazia. Taking Animals Seriously: Animal Life and Moral Status. Cambridge University Press. 1996. Book.
For the sake of argument, … escape the source of pain). (136)

The fact that animals can feel pain endows them with moral status because sensory pleasure and pain are naturally normative. Nagel writes.
Thomas Nagel, The View From Nowhere, HUP, 1986: 156-168.
I shall defend the unsurprising … to reject the appearances here.
Therefore, even if justice and morality are not dedicated to the prevention of pain at any cost, an agent’s capacity to experience pain provides a reason to treat them in certain ways, endowing the agent with moral status. Even if animals lack sentience, non-phenomenally conscious pain is still a state of moral concern. Carruthers writes.
“Suffering without subjectivity.” Peter Carruthers. 2004. http://drum.lib.umd.edu/bitstream/1903/4357/1/Suffering-without-subjectivity.pdf
The real point (and what … thought account of phenomenal consciousness.

C) Companion Vulnerability

Companion animals merit special consideration. Pets are put into vulnerable positions and are incapable of satisfying their own needs. Burgess-Jackson writes.
Keith Burgess-Jackson. Doing Right by Our Animal Companions. The Journal of Ethics, Vol. 2, No. 2 (1998), pp. 159-185. JSTOR.
Animals, no less than humans, … consequence of what one does.

This relationship of dependency places a special obligation onto the caretaker that forces them to recognize the moral status of animals. Burgess-Jackson 2 writes.
Keith Burgess-Jackson. Doing Right by Our Animal Companions. The Journal of Ethics, Vol. 2, No. 2 (1998), pp. 159-185. JSTOR.
Much philosophical ink has been … has the obligations one has.54
Therefore, companion animals have moral standing by virtue of their dependency. Moreover,, the taking on of a companion animal is a voluntary commitment to a reciprocal relationship which mandates particular responsibilities under even contractual systems of justice.

D) Indirect Duty

Failing to recognize that animals possess rights leads to violation of human rights. Wilson writes.
“Indirect Duties to animals.” Scott Wilson. Department of Philosophy, University of California, Santa Barbara, The Journal of Value Inquiry 36: 15–25, 2002.
With this point in mind … than if he were not.
Therefore, because justice at base prescribes actions that protect human rights, it must recognize the existence of animal rights in order to decrease the likelihood of human rights being violated. Whether or not harming animals is intrinsically wrong, it’s commonly accepted to be which is what’s relevant. Wilson writes.
“Indirect Duties to animals.” Scott Wilson. Department of Philosophy, University of California, Santa Barbara, The Journal of Value Inquiry 36: 15–25, 2002.
Unfortunately for Nozick, this explanation … the belief in his explanation.