[[toc]]
2A - Jonathan Chou [[mailto:jonathanchou711@gmail.com|jonathanchou711@gmail.com]]
2N - Daniel Park - [[mailto:wanflove@gmail.com|wanflove@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==Helium 3 Aff== 
=== === 
===FYI: We're reading a different version of this aff - I'm too lazy to put it up. Just email me, the 2A.=== 
__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Observation 1: Inherency</span>**__
**Helium 3 can’t be found on the Earth, only the moon holds the quantity making fusion possible**

Stefano**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Coledan</span>**. //Popular Mechanic//s is a weekly magazine that features regular sections on automotives, homes, outdoors, science, and technology topics, “Mining The Moon.” December 7, 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>**. http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/space/moon-mars/1283056
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A Reason To Return Throughout … </span>**__enormous benefits__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">back on Earth.</span>




__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1: Terrorism</span>**__
**Supplies of Helium 3 are diminishing and its key to nuclear detection – no other alternative is reliable**

**__Wald 9__** [MATTHEW L. WALD, November 24, 2009, **<span style="color: #333333;">Matthew L.</span>****<span style="color: #333333;">Wald</span>** is a reporter at The New York Times, where he has been writing about energy topics for 30 years. Matt has been in the paper’s Washington Bureau since 1995, and has toured more than two dozen power reactors and research reactors, he wrote extensively about the production of materials for nuclear weapons, He holds a B.A. in Urban Studies from Brown University, The International Herald Tribune, “Shortage of ingredient mires bomb detection; Supply of helium 3 has shrunk, rendering new machines unusable,” LexisNexis, LS]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. Department of </span>**__Homeland Security__**… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russia, Was Only About 20,000 Liters</span>


**Nuclear detection is key to preventing terrorism – government proves**

__**Defense Threat Reduction Agency 2011**__ (US STRATCOM Center for combating WMD – the DTRA is an agency that interests in protection from weapons of mass destruction (chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high explosives), “Nuclear Detection and Forensics”, http://www.dtra.mil/missions/Nuclear DetectionForensics/NuclearDetectionForensicsHome.aspx)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“…the risk of a nuclear … academic workshops on WMD technologies. </span>



**Terrorism ensures extinction**

Dennis Ray **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 9</span>__**, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Years later, in 1982, at the … and suffering in a nuclear winter.</span>




__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2: China</span>**__

**American space leadership which is key to security, hegemony, and the economy, is rapidly declining**

**__Stone 2011__**, Christopher, policy analyst and strategist, “American leadership in space: leadership through capability,” The Space Review, Mar. 15, http://www.thespacereview.com/ article/1797/1

**__The world has recognized America …__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">objectives “worthy of a great nation.”</span>



**Helium 3 is in high demand and Chinese Lunar Mining will mean end the US leadership**

John **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vause</span>__**, CNN correspondent, November 26, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span>__****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, “</span>**China's ambitious plans in space”, http://articles.cnn.com/2007-11-26/tech/china.space.race_1_chang-e-helium-3-lunar-orbiter/2?_s=PM:TECH

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When China's lunar orbiter blasted … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">to the moon, and beyond. </span>__**


**US hegemonic and economic collapse would result a global vacuum of power including terrorism and nuclear war**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ferguson 2004</span>__** [Niall, Professor of History at New York University's Stern School of Business and Senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, “A world without power,” Foreign Policy, p. 32-39, July-August]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So what is left? Waning … such a not-so-new world disorder.</span>




**Indo-Pak conflict leads to extinction**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chomsky, ‘9</span>**. Noam is an American linguist, philosopher, cognitive scientist, and activist who is a professor in the Department of Linguistics and Philosophy at MIT where he has worked for 50 years, “Crisis and Hope: Theirs and Ours,” http://www.thefallingrain.com/Crisis%20and%20Hope%20-%20Noam%20Chomsky.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It’s also not too encouraging … crisis, but no time here. </span>



__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3: Exploration</span>**__
**Extinction is possible now, lunar mining is vital to colonizing space and __ensuring human survival__ – provides resources and development of human transportation and settlement**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lowman 8–</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">PhD, geophysicist (14 January 2008. “Why Go Back to the Moon?” [[http://www.nasa.gov/centers/goddard/news/series/moon/why_go_back.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Returning to the 21st century...</span>problems in the 15th century.




**Lunar mining is key to get to Mars – provides cheaper launches, fuel, and technological innovation**

**Dolzome et al in 10** (Dolzome, Mining and Explosives specialist. John Millis, About Guide for space and astronomy. David Morrison, NASA Lunar Science Institute Senior Scientist. 2010. “Mining the Moon Makes Mission to Mars Realistic”

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why going to Mars is … </span>__by a manned mission to Mars”.__



**The plan will spur further space exploration, asteroid defense and space tourism**

**Schmitt, Apollo 17 astronaut, 4** (October 2004, Harrison H., Popular Mechanics, “Mining the Moon,” vol. 181, no. 10, Academic Search Premier, JMP)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Returning to the moon would … </span>__100-ton payloads to the moon."__


**Asteroid strike causes extinction.**
**Sidle ‘7**(<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Roy, Slope Conservation Section, Geohazards Division, Disaster Prevention Research Institute, Kyoto University, Chapter 23: Hazard Risk Assessment of a Near Earth Object, in //Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach//, SpringLink)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Very large asteroids (> several km) have … rise and regional coastal flooding.</span>



**Mars colonization solves – key to preserving diversity and human life**

**ZUBRIN 1994** (Robert Zubrin is former Chairman of the National Space Society, President of the Mars Society, and author of The Case For Mars: The Plan to Settle the Red Planet and Why We Must, Ad Astra, Sep/Oct, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/mars/zubrin-frontier.html]])

__In the 21st Century, without a … survival of the human race__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Lunar mining provides the necessary resources for renewable, efficient, cheap launch and travel to deeper destinations like Mars and provides a catalyst for international space cooperation.**

**Spudis and Lavoie 10**– * Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston AND **Director of the newly created Space Systems Programs/Projects Office at the Marshall Center (12/19/10, “Mission and Implementation of an Affordable Lunar Return,” Space Manufacturing, pgs 20-22, http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf)**

**__We have concentrated on the … beyond our initial operational capability.__**





**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should develop lunar mining bases and robotic vehicles to mine Helium-3 on the moon</span>**


__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3: Solvency</span>**__
Mining is possible now
Taylor and Martel 03**- G. Jeffrey Taylor, Ph. D in geology from Rice University and Director of the Hawai`i Space Grant Consortium, Linda M. V. Martel, instructor for Hawai ‘i Institute of Geophysics and Phetology, 2003, Adv. Space Res. Vol. 31, No. 11, pp. 2403-2412**
**Abundant data __.__** __Lunar prospecting can …__ **elemental abundances on the Moon.**


A mining demonstration is necessary to get the private sector on board
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wall 10</span>**- Mike Wall, SPACE.com Senior Writer, 30 October 2010, “Want to Mine the Solar System? Start With the Moon,” http://www.space.com/9430-solar-system-start-moon.html**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Most panelists agreed that </span>__economics …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">there, the stars are ours."</span>**


Mining helium 3 would lead to US control of the global energy market for at least 20 years
Lasker, 6**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (12/15/06, John, “Race to the Moon for Nuclear Fuel,”</span> http://www.wired.com/science/space/news/2006/12/72276, JMP)**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NASA plans to have a permanent … into a fuel for commercial fusion.</span>**


Reject negative arguments about fusion not being feasible – Helium 3 capabilities would eliminate many of the obstacles facing researchers
Williams 7 **– Matt Williams, Contributing Author MIT Technology Review, August 23, 2007, “Mining The Moon,” MIT Technology Review, http://www.technologyreview.com /energy/19296/page1/)**
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><Could He-3 from the moon … </span>__**__nonradioactive, obviating all those problems__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.></span>**




The Saturn V is a feasible shuttle capable of delivering necessary resource payloads

Popular Mechanics 2k4**(December 7, “Mining The Moon”, science magazine,**

**[[http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/space/moon-mars/1283056]])//Abraha**


Robotic Mining Exists Today
Wall ’10** (Mike, October 30, 2010, Space.Com, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.space.com/9430-solar-system-start-moon.html|… ]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Moon Has a Lot of … Any Long-Term Lunar Settlement.</span>

=Negative= 
==Wichita== 
**2NR'S -**
**2nd Round vs Moon Mining Aff - Win**
**Sulfate Aerosol CP with Ozone DA as Net Benefit**

**4th Round vs. EDDE Aff - Loss**
**Militarization DA and Case**


==KCKCC== 
**2NR's**
**1st Round vs. Oppression Perf Aff - Loss**
**Framework/T**

**3rd Round vs. Heidegger Aff - Loss**
**Framework/T and Case**

**5th Round vs. Moon Mining Aff - Win**
**Planked Sulfate Aerosol CP and Export Reform CP with Militarization DA as Net Benefit**

==Charles Page== 
**2NR's**
**1st Round vs. Asteroid Detection - Win**
**Extremely Large Telescope (ELT) CP with Militarization DA as Net Benefit and Case**

**4th Round vs. SPS - Win**
**T-Increase, Militarization DA, Case, and Turns**

**Partial Octos vs. Ground Based Lasers Aff - Win**
**T-Mesosphere, Militarization DA, and Case**

==Bixby== 
**2NR's**
**2nd Round vs. SPS - Win**
**T-Increase, Militarization DA, Case, and Turns**

**4th Round vs. Nuclear Propulsion - Win**
**Nuke Asteroids CP, Militarization DA, Case, and Turns**