**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Aff cites: </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Katie - k.e.roberts830[at]gmail[dot]com </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Neg cites: </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Idriss - idrissrichard[at]gmail[dot]com</span>


[[toc]]
=Actually important notes that you may be interested in reading.= 
It has come to my attention that I should probably clarify something...

Not long ago I received an email requesting cites that only contained the following,
"**Subject Line**: cites
can i have all of ur cites from round //[omitted]"//
This is how I feel about emails like that:
[[media type="youtube" key="TmgLpJFwUoI" height="315" width="420"]]

We're happy to share cites if you have a **specific request**.

- Idriss



=Affirmative= 
==1AC Berkeley== 

===Arms Control (read in doubles vs. CPS TL)=== 

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial;">Status quo concessions on the code of conduct are insufficient --- won’t spill over to further arms control negotiations</span>**

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial;">NSSC 1-28</span>**
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">(National Space Studies Center, it’s blog, “Space Code of Conduct Backdoors Treaty Process?”</span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">http://nationalspacestudiescenter.wordpress.com/2011/01/28/space-code-of-conduct-backdoors-treaty-process/</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Apparently the 1967 Outer Space … of the Outer Space Treaty.</span>

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial;">Obama’s rejection of the EU code of conduct sent mixed signals --- lack of verification dooms progress</span>**

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial;">Space News 2-14</span>**
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(“Editorial: Promoting Responsibility In Space”)</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">The Phobos-Grunt and NPP … most reliant on space assets.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Obama’s unilateral approach won’t get other countries on board. The US faces a trust deficit without initial concessions on TCBMs --- failure to rebuild ties __prior__ to negotiations independently drains diplomatic capital </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Listner 1-16 </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Michael,- “US rebuffs current draft of EU Code of Conduct: is there something waiting in the wings?”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An American alternative to the …</span>//**will be a difficult sell.**//

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Code of Conduct isn’t sufficient --- new unilateral, pragmatic confidence building measures like the plan are vital to future arms control negotiations --- the impact is weaponization, global conflict and extinction. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">UNDPI ’10 </span>
(UN Department of Information, “MOMENTUM GATHERING FOR WEAPONIZATION OF OUTER SPACE, RISK OF OUTER SPACE ARMS RACE”)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Mounting concerns that </span>advances in//…//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of other countries, he said. </span>



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The plan’s unilateral action spurs an international inspection regime over SSP --- means no turns and spurs international cooperation, and provides deterrent value to future agreements --- also SSP bad arguments are wrong </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith ‘08 </span>
(M.V.,- Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon “Weaponization, Environmental Risk, and Multinational Approaches”)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Your concern about weaponization</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of … done in the business sector.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">This incremental approach to verification spills over</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Walker and Weeden ’10 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ben Baseley,- Brian,- “Verification in space: theories, realities and possibilities”)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Verifying</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">on-orbit actions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span> //groundwork for future verification mechanisms//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">U.S. unilateral steps towards verification bolster space arms control leadership and spill over to strengthen norms and builds confidence in arms control measures --- independently deters space conflict.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Harrison ’10</span>
(Roger G,- Ph.D. Director, Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, United States Air Force Academy “Space and Verification”)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Another agreement from the Cold … space domain is an issue. </span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">1st ---- Space conflict causes extinction</span>
**Mitchell, et al 1**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">)</span>

__A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.__




<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2nd --- Cooperation --- SSP uniquely spills over --- it’s vital to create a positive agenda for cooperation, specifically on sustainable development and disaster relief </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NSSO ‘07 </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group … a broad variety of sectors. </span>

Sustainable development is vital to prevent a host of global problems

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Butts ’94 </span>
(Kent Hughes,- Associate Professor of Political Military Strategy in the Center for Strategic Leadership, U.S. Army War College “ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY: A DOD PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE”)
<span class="underline">The </span>legitimacy of a state <span class="underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to land, air, and water.</span>

And Extinction

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ghista ‘05 </span>
(Garda, freelance journalist and public advocate http://www.worldproutassembly.org/archives/2005/04/biodiversity_un.html “Biodiversity - Underprotected or Overprotected?”)
Biodiversity is crucial to human <span class="underline">…</span>causing havoc<span class="underline"> to our environment.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Natural disaster cooperation is key to global nuclear war </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baker ’10 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Michael,- International Affairs Fellow in residence @ Council on Foreign Relations “The Coming Conflicts of Climate Change”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The case of Pakistan reflects …</span> challenges<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> posed by climate change. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">3rd --- Dip Cap --- vital to solve Nagorno-Karabakh</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Libaridian 1-23 </span>
(Geard,- director of the Armenian Studies Program at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor “There are no evident signs that much will be achieved in 2012”)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">There is </span>no way they … What a //window of opportunity//!

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">That causes Russian expansionism </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blank ’94 </span>
(Stephen J,- Strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989 “ENERGY AND SECURITY IN TRANSCAUCASIA”)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In Transcaucasia, control of energy …</span>//endless wars on its borders.//

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Global nuclear war </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cohen ’96 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ariel, PhD and Senior Policy Analyst – Heritage, Heritage Foundation Reports, 1-25, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Much is at stake in … reserves of the Persian Gulf.15</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">4th --- Inspection regime leadership is key to prevent Russia-China balancing </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Elhefnawy ’06 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nader,- written on space policy and international security for several years. He is currently teaching at the University of Miami “The National Space Policy and space arms control”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even were the cooperation of … game as much as possible. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Extinction results </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roberts ‘07 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul Craig, Senior Research Fellow – Hoover Institution, Stanford University and Chair in Political Economy – Center for Strategic and International Studies, “US Hegemony Spawns Russian-Chinese Military Alliance”, http://www.lewrockwell.com/roberts/roberts218.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This week the </span>Russian and … the hegemony of the cockroach<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Econ=== 
Same as Golden Desert

===Nuclear Propulsion=== 
Same as Golden desert

===India Coop=== 
India Scenario from our coop advantage

==1AC Golden Desert== 
===Econ=== 

Scenarios: Heg, econ decline (protectionism), nuclear deterrence, nuclear terrorism

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11.5pt;">The Economy remains on the verge of downturn: Job creation would stimulate recovery</span>**</span>
[[http://www.americanprogress.org/experts/WellerChristian.html|**Weller**]]<span class="timestamp">**<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 12pt;">1-27-2012</span>**</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">Christian E.. Dr. Christian E. Weller is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and an associate professor of public policy at the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.publicpolicy.umb.edu/|University of Massachusetts Boston]]. </span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">He is also a research scholar at the University of Massachusetts Amherst’s Political Economy Research Institute, and served in the banking sector in Germany, Belgium, and Poland. Dr. Weller is a respected academic with more than 100 academic and popular publications </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2012/01/econsnap0112.html]] “Economic Snapshot for January 2012 Christian Weller on the State of the Economy”</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">The economy is gradually gaining ... </span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">started keeping record in 1967</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Coop=== 

Scenarios: Coop k2 solve miscalc w/ Russia, Space law, India scenarios (free trade and energy shocks=China miscalc)

**Obama pursing a code of conduct now – but it fails**
**Listner 1/16/12** a space law attorney with a focus on counseling organizations on issues relating to domestic and international space law and policy and provides consultations on the same (Michael, The Space Review, “US rebuffs current draft of EU Code of Conduct: is there something waiting in the wings?”
[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2006/1]] SW)


Domestic and international concerns __<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This ... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">direct negotiations with, the US.</span>__
===Nuclear Propulsion (Read sems v. Brophy MS)=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">SSP and spin-offs solve energy and cost dilemmas for space exploration --- solves reliance on nuclear propulsion </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mankins ‘97 </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(John,- manager of Exploration Systems Research and Technology within the Exploration Systems Mission Directorate for NASA “Fresh Look at Space Solar Power: New Architectures, Concepts and Technologies, Space Future”</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/a_fresh_look_at_space_solar_power_new_architectures_concepts_and_technologies.shtml]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Science Missions </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Several space science ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">within the inner solar system ). </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Extinction --- the plan’s switch sparks global reform </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Grossman ’11 </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Karl,- professor of journalism at the State University of New York/College “What Could Truly End the Space Program? A Nuclear Disaster Overhead”) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">And </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">is this enormous risk ... could end the space program..</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Independent of accidents causes extinction --- also causes militarization and turns deficits </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gagnon ’03 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bruce,- Coordinator of Global Network Against Weapons & Nuclear Power in Space “Nuclear Power In Space And The Impact On Earth's Ecosystem”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Included in </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">NASA plans</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">are ... the space nuclear power issue. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Extinction </span>
**Mitchell, et al 1**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">A buildup of space weapons ... </span>____<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">destructive</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> military conflict ever seen.</span>__







==MBA Rd. 4 UFOs Aff v. King College Prep (Whiteness K)== 
**Contention One is My Story**
**[I read an analytic story about my experience as someone of Arabic descent living in America]**

**The rest of the aff is a retagged and reorganized version of the normal one, that I will put up probably later today.**



==UFOs Aff - MBA== 

**CONTENTION ONE IS A FRAMING OF DEBATE**

**Representations shape policymaking – analysis of the plan is impossible without them**
**Blieker 2000**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Ronald, Contending Images if World Politics]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">While the conceptual contours of ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">object it seeks to represent.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;"> Pg. 227 – 228</span>


**Representations are an inherent and critical part of policy – they are a key constraint on the function of the plan**

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Neta </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Crawford</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ,PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Argument and Change in World Politics</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, 200</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> p. 19-21</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Coherent argumentsare unlikely to ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">Hence framing is a meta-argument. </span>




























**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">SP inevitable – US development key to aerospace competitiveness and heg – overwhelms alt causes</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stone 10-3 </span>**
(Christopher,- space policy analyst and strategist near Washington, DC “National Space Strategy: proactive or reactive?”
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“…</span>space preeminence<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is</span>essential<span style="font-size: 8pt;">if … its existence into the future. </span>
===Cooperation=== 
Took out old Hays card, added


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">SSP development International Space Law --- solves extinction</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hays ‘10</span>**
(Peter, PhD and director of the U.S. Air Force Institute for National Security Studies, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower” 12-13 http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition, consideration should be … the peaceful advancement of spacepower. </span>

==ent is key.== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NSSO ‘07 **(National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]])**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that …….. would be a powerful expression of this imperative.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Take-outs are wrong</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Royal ’10 </span>
(Jedediah,- Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods ………. here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Plan specifically boosts STEM, manufacturing and leadership --- spinoff tech independently solves space exploration and NEO strikes</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mahan ’06 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rob,- degree in mechanical engineering former employee of a major U.S. aerospace contractor [[http://c-sbsp.org/sbsp-faq/]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Date last cited)</span>
<span class="Underline">Are there other reasons you believe …….</span>
<span class="Underline">not by force, but </span>by example<span class="Underline">.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Boosting STEM is key to solve nuclear terrorism and deterrence</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Chiles ’08</span>
(Henry G,- chairman of the Task Force on Nuclear Deterrence Skills)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">America’s nuclear deterrence and nuclear ….. the highest caliber technical talent. </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">That’s two scenarios for nuclear war --- 1st --- Deterrence</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">IFPA ’10 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis @ International Security Studies Program of The Fletcher School, Tufts University,- a conference report summarizing the consenus of experts at “Air, Space, & Cyberspace Power in the 21st-Century” Prepared by Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. President, IFPA and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In marked contrast, the second nuclear age is …….. and safe even as we hold out the long-term vision of a nuclear-weapons-free world. </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2nd --- Nuke terrorism</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Speice ‘06 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Patrick, JD Candidate – College of William and Mary, “Negligence and Nuclear Nonproliferation: Eliminating the Current Liability Barrier to Bilateral U.S.-Russian Nonproliferation Assistance Programs”, William and Mary Law Review, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February, Lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">Terrorist </span>groups could acquire a nuclear …… and escalate<span class="Underline"> to the use of nuclear weapons</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 53 </span>
===Coop=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Added</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">US development spurs US-India co-op --- solves Indian growth, energy shortages, and leadership</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rajagopalan ’11 </span>
(9-21 Dr. Rajeswari Pillai,- Senior Fellow and Rahul Prakash a Research Assistant at Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi “China Walks the US-India Space Solar Power Dream”)
<span class="Underline">While India and the US …… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">o actually start real-time development work on SBSP. </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Indian energy shocks cause miscalc with China </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Singh ’08 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ajay Kumar,- Major, Indian Army “How Does India’s Energy Security Affect Her National Security”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael T. Klare in his writings …… security on its national security. </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Goes nuclear</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kanwal ‘2K</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brigadier (retd) Gurmeet Kanwal is currently a Visiting Senior Research Fellow at the South Asian Strategic Stability Unit, London and Senior Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies, New Delhi. He commanded an infantry brigade in the high-altitude Gurez Sector on the Line of Control with Pakistan (during Operation Parakram, 2001-03) and an artillery field regiment in counter-insurgency operations in the Kashmir Valley (during Operation Rakshak, 1993-94). </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">He also served as Deputy Assistant Chief of the Integrated Defence Staff at HQ Integrated Defence Staff, New Delhi and as Director MO-5 in the Directorate General of Military Operations at Army Headquarters (dealing with threat, strategy and force structure). He is the author of several books including Nuclear Defence: Shaping the Arsenal, Pakistan’s Proxy War, and Artillery: Honour and Glory. Does India Need Tactical Nuclear Weapons?, CIAO Net, www.ciaonet.org/olj/sa/sa_may00kag01.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jasjit Singh has stated that, . …..the Chinese Central Military Commission. </span>



<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Indian leadership is key to Central Asian Free Trade</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kaufman ’11 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen,- USINFO staff writer, quoting Hilary “Clinton Says India’s Leadership Is Important for All Asia”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States believes that “….. openness and tolerance,” Clinton said. </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">That solves multiple regional conflicts that escalate to global nuclear war</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Starr ‘03</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(S. Frederick, Chair – Central Asia-Caucasus Institute, “Afghanistan: Free Trade and Regional Transformation”, http://www.cacianalyst.org/Publications/Starr_Asia_Society_Afghanistan.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">However great </span><span style="font-family: Times;">the</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> economic and social </span><span style="font-family: Times;">…… </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> which </span><span style="font-family: Times;">world security</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> is grounded. </span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Accelerating this dialogue alone solves extinction </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hays ‘10</span>
(Peter, PhD and director of the U.S. Air Force Institute for National Security Studies, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower” 12-13 http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Other </span><span class="Underline">impediments to</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> further developing </span><span class="Underline">……. </span>improve our odds for survival<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Unilateral action is key to start the cooperation**
**Stone, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> --- space policy analyst and strategist near Washington, DC (3/14/11, Christopher, “American leadership in space: leadership through capability,” </span>[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1|www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recently, Lou Friedman wrote a …… </span>__objectives “worthy of a great nation”.__</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Same pre-empts, added at the bottom of this advantage </span>
==1AC Greenhill Round Robin== 
===Economy Adantage=== 

**Advantage 1: The Economy**

**Global development of SPS is inevitable – The US needs to develop it to be competitive**

**Matai 10** – PhD in Engineering, won The Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the category of Innovation for Bespoke Security Architecture in 2003, authority on countering complex global threats; strategic risk management & visualisation; contingency planning; Information Operations (IO); electronic defence; biometric authentication; secure payment systems and Open Source hardened kernel solutions, DK, 6-13-2010, “Japan Takes Lead in Wireless Power? 21stC Global Energy Supply,” Asymmetric Threats Contingency Alliance, http://www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/frameset.php?pageid=http%3A//www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/press/130610.php//

//In the footsteps of Nikola … the 21st century and beyond!//

//**The US economy is on the brink of a recession- classical economic patterns prove**//
//**Keene and Del Giudice 8/22/11** *Editor for Bloomberg news AND **Bloomberg Reporter (Tom and Vincent, Bloomberg, “U.S. Economy Is ‘On the Precipice’ of Recession, Rosenberg Says: Tom Keene”, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-22/u-s-economy-to-slip-into-a-recession-by-winter-rosenberg-says-tom-keene.html SW)**//
//***David Rosenberg is an economist for an economic management firm in Canada**//

//**The U.S. economy is “one … into a recession,” he said.**//

//Obama’s new stimulus plan non-uniques your disads- but it fails//
//Riley, 7/9/11, **Writer for CNN (Charles, CNN, “Obama stimulus plan: Will it work?”, http://money.cnn.com/2011/09/07/news/economy/obama_stimulus_impact/index.htm SW)**//

//**Obama's proposal is expected to … infrastructure and aid to states.**//

//And, Obama’s stimulus targets the wrong place – Infrastructure spending doesn’t spillover to overall economic growth//
//Pender, 9/10/11 **Columnist for the San Francisco Chronicle (Kathleen, San Francisco Chronicle, “President Obama's jobs plan faces tough obstacles”, http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2011/09/10/BUCC1L2GCJ.DTL&type=business SW)**//

//**The part of the proposal … create jobs in other sectors.**//

//Sustained recession causes extinction//
//Austin ’09 **(Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman, Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6, http://www.aei.org/article/100187)**//

//**Conversely, global policymakers do not … coalesce into a big bang.**//

//Even a temporary slowdown in US economic growth causes Great Power Wars//
//Khalilzad, 11 **- Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992 (“The Economy and National Security,” National Review, 2/8, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad**//

//**Today, economic and fiscal trends … aggressive moves in their regions.**//



//Heg is key to global stability and accesses every major impact – Prevents Great Power War//
//Thayer, 6, **Professor of Strategic Studies – Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)**//

//**A grand strategy based on … the economic prosperity it provides.**//

//Only SSP solves//
//Our internal link is stimulus://

//Every minute counts – only massive stimulus today can stave off global depression//
//Watson 9/12 **(Steve, Sept 12, 2011, Prisonplanet.com, Renowned Economist Warns Of Severe Depression Without “Massive New Stimulus, Could hit as early as next year”, JC)**//

//**Renowned Economist Nouriel Roubini, says … it today.” the economist added.**//

//SSP jumpstarts private investment in the space economy – now is the key time for SSP – it permanently ensures economic strength, ends oil dependence, and prevents resource conflict//
//Hsu and Cox, 09 **– *Feng, Ph.D., NASA GSFC, Senior Fellow at the Aerospace Technology Working Group, and** Ken, Founder and Director of the Aerospace Technology Working Group (“Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development: A Unified Strategic Vision,” 3/29/09, Aerospace Technology Working Group, http://www.spacerenaissance.org/papers/A-UnifiedSpaceVision-Hsu-Cox.pdf)Red//

//6. And we must invest in … it today.” the economist added.//

//**Prefer our economic model – Stimulus is key to economic recovery – economic restrictions will fail – high tech jobs must be maintained – history proves**//
//**Newberry 08’**- Economist and Political Analyst, Wikipedia Pioneer and advisor to various governmental organizations (Stirling, “How Keynesian Stimulus Works”, The AgonistThe Agonist, November 2008, http://agonist.org/stirling_newberry/20081115/how_keynesian_stimulus_works//JC )

One of the most important … power for the next occurance.

**Protectionist backlash alone causes great power war**
**Panzer ’08** (Michael Panzner is faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, and a 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, Revised and Updated Edition, p. 136-138)

Continuing calls for curbs on … of a new world war.

===Cooperation Advantage=== 

**Advantage 2: Cooperation**

**Obama’s NSP provides no tangible areas for cooperation, US leadership in space is key to its success**

**Krepon 10** – Co-founder of the Stimson Center Michael, co-founder of the Stimson Center and the co-author and co-editor of Space Assurance or Space Dominance: The Case Against Weaponizing Space (2003), Open Skies, Arms Control and Cooperative Security (1992) and Commercial Observation Satellites and International Security (1990)., “The Obama Administration’s National Space Policy,” http://www.stimson.org/summaries/the-obama-administrations-national-space-policy/

After much delay, the Obama … international leadership on space issues.

**The US is still pursuing space dominance despite the NSP – Current policy is too vague and tied directly to DOD space control**
**Gilbert 10** – PhD Candidate @ Gilbert in Australia Jo-Anne, “A SPOON FULL OF SUGAR MAKES THE MEDICINE GO DOWN? AN ANALYSIS OF THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION’S ‘NEW’ NATIONAL SPACE POLICY,” Sustainable Security, http://sustainablesecurity.org/article/spoon-full-sugar-makes-medicine-go-down-analysis-obama-administration%E2%80%99s-%E2%80%98new%E2%80%99-national-space

On 28 June 2010, US … the inherent right of self-defense.”(7)

**Leadership in SSP development is key to space coop and exploration – agenda setting, interest groups, and consensus building – spills over to other US space infrastructure and spurs cooperative projects**
**NSSO ’07** (National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)

FINDING: The SBSP Study Group … a broad variety of sectors.

**Relationships key to U.S. space diplomacy – checks miscalc, debris, arms races**
**MacDonald ’09** (Brian,- Senior Director of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States. He is based at the United States Institute of Peace, Washington, DC. “Steps to strategic security and stability in space: a view from the United States” http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2907.pdf)

Although the United States has … security and stability in space.

**Miscalc from space debris causes nuclear war with Russia – warning systems mistake collision**
**Lewis, ‘4** – postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy [Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]

This is the second of … nuclear forces to operate safely.

**Unilateral action is key to start the cooperation**
**Stone, 11** --- space policy analyst and strategist near Washington, DC (3/14/11, Christopher, “American leadership in space: leadership through capability,” www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1, JMP)

Recently, Lou Friedman wrote a … “worthy of a great nation”.

===Plan=== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should deploy space solar power**

===Solvency=== 

**Next is solvency**

**SSP works- the tech has already been proven**
**Betancourt, 10** - third-year student at the University of Maryland School of Law, specializing in environmental and international law (Kiantar, “Space Based Solar Power: Worth the effort?,” 8/28, http://spaceenergy.com/AnnouncementRetrieve.aspx?ID=56407

I. Introduction To address the future … discovery or invention is necessary.[34]

**Government investment is key to stimulate the private sector --- your DAs are all wrong, multiple reasons**
**Smith ’08** (M.V.,- Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon “Weaponization, Environmental Risk, and Multinational Approaches”)

“Your concern about weaponization of … done in the business sector.

**China perceives the US as weaponizing space now**
**The China Post 10** [The China Post, “Weapons of the Future the Sky should be the Limit” December 7, http://www.chinapost.com.tw/editorial/world-issues/2010/12/07/282551/Weapons-of.htm]

Dec. 3, 2010 may go … with potential first-strike capability.

**A plethora of countries including China, India, Russia, North Korea, and Iran are developing comprehensive ASAT systems now**
**Kramnik 10**-RIA Novotsi (think tank) military commentator, military commentator for the Russian News Service [Ilya, Space War, “Possible Space Wars in the Near Future,” January 18, http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Possible_Space_Wars_In_The_Near_Future_999.html]

The U.S. media suspects China … development of military space systems.

=Negative= 



==T== 
===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">T Development</span>=== 

**Of means space is the object for development**
**Collins World English Dictionary, 9** (dictionary.com)
of (<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ɒ</span>v, ( unstressed ) <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ə</span>v) — prep 1. used with … breathing of clean air (object)

**Development is expansion of commercial activities**
**Livingston 7** – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, [[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]])

Eric Westling is a science … manned commercial projects in space.
==K== 
===Fear=== 

**The affirmative is a product of a death drive that will kill us all because of its will to sustain life.**

**__ZUPANCIC IN 2003__**[Alenka; Researcher at the Institute of Philosophy, Slovene Academy of Sciences, Ljubljana; //The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two//; Cambridge: The MIT Press; 2003; p. 63-65; 47-49]

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(63-65):</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">So far, we have been ... to life as a sub­ject.</span>

**The affirmative’s permanent state of crisis reproduces a dangerous economy of enjoyment that makes life meaningless.**

**__ZUPANCIC IN 2K3__** [Alenka; Researcher at the Institute of Philosophy, Slovene Academy of Sciences, Ljubljana; //The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two//; Cambridge: The MIT Press; 2003; p. 49-53]

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The core of the ascetic ... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">concludes in our not willing.</span>__**

**Our alternative is an ethic of joy. Embracing the joy of the present without linking it to a better world of the future has massive life affirming potential. We embrace the current world, the status quo, for all its faults, to find the joy in it, DO NOT link this joy of the present to a solution for the future.**

**__MASSUMI AND ZOURNAZI IN 2002__** [Brian Massumi is Associate Professor of Communications at the Université de Montréal; Mary Zournazi is a Philosopher and Ph.D in Cultural Theory; //Hope: New Philosophies for Change//; New York: Routledge; 2002; p. 241-242]

//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Yes, and there is a ... </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">or for </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">more to life.</span>__**







===Ehrenfeld Kritik=== 

**The aff’s worship of a technological solution to the world’s problems creates a view of humanity as useless and incomplete and makes their solution inevitably fail**
**Ehrenfeld, 81** – (David, professor of biology at Rutgers University, studied at Harvard, Ph.D in Zoology from University of Florida, known author, The Arrogance of Humanism, Ch. 3 Pg. 84-86) Idriss

Here we see a remarkable … and replaced by bionic substitutes.

**The worship of technology legitimizes violence that culminates in nuclear extinction**
**Ehrenfeld, 81** – (David, professor of biology at Rutgers University, studied at Harvard, Ph.D in Zoology from University of Florida, known author, The Arrogance of Humanism, Ch. 3 Pg. 103-104) Idriss

Despite the prevalence of the … God seem welcome by comparison.

**The alternative is to embrace humanity’s inability to manage the world.**

**Only by acknowledging our inability to manage the world can the atrocities of humanism be solved**
**Ehrenfeld, 81** – (David, professor of biology at Rutgers University, studied at Harvard, Ph.D in Zoology from University of Florida, known author, The Arrogance of Humanism, Ch. 7 Pg. 261-262) Idriss

To understand that we are … for, and it is enough.

===Cosmic Enchantment=== 
**The search to know, reveal, and dominate space is entrenched in rationalist thinking, our view is obscured by the drive to understand**
<span class="Underline">**Sheehan 7** </span>- Distinguished Fellow at the Center on Law and Security (2007, Michael, pp. 5-19 “The International Politics of Space,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://bib.tiera.ru/dvd64/Sheehan%20M.%20-%20The%20International%20Politics%20of%20Space(2007)(248).pdf]]</span>)

The fact that Outer Space … activities beyond the Earth’s atmosphere. Xx

**This drive to know the mystic has caused the world to become disenchanted, stripping humanity’s actions of any meaning**
**Bauerschmidt**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**1** Associate professor of theology, Loyola college, [FC, “The Politics of Disenchantment.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1741-2005.2001.tb01764.x/full]]</span>]

Rationalization, being a progressive and … but no longer signify anything."

<span class="Underline">**The quest to know the mystic is the most visible example of human ego-centrism, it will inevitably lead to our destruction**</span>
**Beckman,** Emeritus Professor of Philosophy at Harvey Mudd, **2000** [Tad, Harvey Mudd College, Martin Heidegger and Environnmental Ethics, page @ <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www2.hmc.edu/~tbeckman/personal/HEIDART.HTML]]</span>]

The threat of nuclear annihilation … need to fabricate convincing arguments?

**The alternative is to view space through a lens of co-habitation rather than competition, spills over to thinking on earth**
Elizabeth **Lockard 08** - Ph.D. Candidate, Department of Political Science, Hawaii Center for Futures Studies (American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics “‘Symbiocracy’: The Structuring of New Societies in Space Based on the Principles of Mutualism and Symbiotization”)

Symbiocracy, a proposed concept for … for living in the cosmos.

===The Eye=== 



**We begin with Bataille’s solar anus as the sight of transgression of the sun as a figure of illumination and knowledge and the knowing gaze. bataille presents us instead with a sun that blinds the gaze, loves its inverse, and discovers its own impotence. it is precisely at the moment that the sun, knowledge, attempts to assert its dominance over the dark mysteries of night that it must have its throat slashed, must be rendered the black solar anus.**
**Bataille 85** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Georges, French pervert, “Visions of Excess: Selected Writings, 1927-1939” Ed. By Allan Stoekl, //The Solar Anus//, p. 9)</span>

Love, then, screams in my … the //anus// is the //night.//


**IT IS WITH THIS IN MIND THAT WE TURN TO THE FIRST AFFIRMATIVE CONSTRUCTION. THE 1AC’S SUBMISSION OF KNOWLEDGE UNDER THE SIGN OF VISIBLE, THEIR IMPLIED ASSERTION THAT THEY ARE ABLE TO PERFECTLY SEE AND DIAGNOSE THE WORLD, PLACES ALL OF KNOWLEDGE AND REALITY UNDER THE DOMINANCE OF THE VISUAL. THEY BELIEVE IN THE VIRILE POWER OF THE SUN TO ILLUMINATE THE WORLD PERFECTLY BEFORE THEIR PENETRATING GAZE. THIS SUBMISSION IS NOT WITHOUT CONSEQUENCE – IT IS THE VERY LOGIC OF THE PRIMACY OF VISION, THE PANOPTIC TRIUMPH THAT UNDERPINS THE CLINICAL GAZE AT THE HEART OF BIOPOLITICAL CONTROL. AT THE HEART OF THE NOTION THAT POPULATIONS CAN BE DIAGNOSED AND ANESTHETIZED IS THE ASSUMED ABILITY OF THE STATE TO PERFECTLY SEE AND KNOW THE BODY POLITIC.**
**Siisiäninen 2008** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lauri, political science researcher @ U of Jyväskylä, “From the Empire of the Gaze to Noisy Bodies: Foucault, Audition, and Medical Power” //Theory and Event//, 11:1)</span>
* <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 7.5pt;"> When it comes to the …</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of the gaze without partitions</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 7.5pt;"> (//l'empire sans cloison du regard//)." </span>[[http://muse.jhu.edu.leo.lib.unomaha.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v011/11.1siisiainen.html#_edn19|19]]

**THIS REVALS THE BLINDSPOT IN THEIR OBSERVING - THE DARK UNDERSIDE OF THEIR KNWOING SUN, THE UGLINESS OF THE AFFIRMATIVE’S UNDERSTANDING OF POLITICS AND KNOWLEDGE AS A VISIBILE BODY TO BE SURVEILLED, MANAGED, PROJECTED, AND ULTIMATELY DIAGNOSED AND CURED IS THE POWER TO ASSIGN VALUE AND ELIMINATE UNDERSIRABLE ELEMENTS WHICH PLAYS OUT AS RACISM AND GENOCIDE DEPLOYED IN THE NAME OF DEFENDING LIFE AND TRUTH.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Giroux 6 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Henry, the Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability,” College Literature, Vol. 33, No. 3)</span>
Within the last few decades, …<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to exercise its sovereign power”</span> (258).


**//“When I was a little kid my mother told me not to stare into the sun. So once when I was six, I did. The doctors didn't know if my eyes would ever heal. I was terrified, alone in that darkness.”*// FOR THE ALTERNATIVE WE TURN ONCE AGAIN TO GEORGES BATAILLE. bataille’s notion of the blind, uprooted eye IN THE STORY OF THE EYE implodes the cartesian underpinings of the modern understanding of vision that attempts to perfectly see and thus perfectly know the world. Bataille does this through TRANSGRESSION, WHICH is pushing a concept to its limit until it explodes. in terms of visuality then bataille presents an eye that is torn out and blinded. THE STORY OF THE EYE FURTHERMORE SIGNALS MOMENT WHEN LANGUAGE EXPLODES AND RADICALLY CHALLENGES ITSELF BY DISCOVERING THE CONNECTION BETWEEN DEATH AND LANGUAGE IN THE CONNECTION BETWEEN LIMIT AND BEING. THE REPULSIVE NATURE OF BATAILLE’S STORY IS ESSENTIAL TO IT’S TRANSGRESSION.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Focault ’63</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michel, “A Preface to Transgression”, Religion and Culture Michel Foucault, ed. By Jeremy Carrette, pp 57-71) *Max Cohen in “Pi” by Darren Aronofsky. </span>
Essentially the product of fissures, … exterior through language of dialectics.


==CP== 
===Commissions CP=== 
**Text – The United States Congress should establish an independent agency empowered by the executive to submit to Congress recommendations for space policy as per Newton and Atkins. Congress and the executive will delegate authority to the agency to create recommendations and allow 90 days to pass legislation maintaining existing legislative baselines. If Congress does not pass legislation revising the Commission’s recommendations within the specified period, those recommendations will enter into legal force. The Commission should recommend to Congress that [PLAN]**

**The CP solves --- avoids policy churn that tanks solvency**
**Newton and Atkins 10** (Elizabeth, Director for Space Policy- U Alabama-Huntsville, and Chuck, former Chief of Staff-House Science Committee, Take the Chaos Out of U.S. Space Policy, 10 May, 2010, [[http://spacenews.com/commentaries/100510-take-chaos-out-space-policy.html]])

Policy stability is not an … long-term benefit of the nation.

**Will pass and doesn’t drain capital**
**Mayer ’07** (Kenneth,- professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin, Madison “THE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE PROCESS: IS IT POSSIBLE TO MAKE RATIONAL POLICY?”)

The conventional wisdom was that … came anywhere close to passing.

===**OTEC CP**=== 
**Text:** **<span class="Taggin-New">The United States federal government should substantially increase incentives for the construction and commercialization of Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion by ----</span>**

**<span class="Taggin-New">-offering to split the cost of a prototype plant 50-50 with investors and reimburse 25% of the capital cost of other plant development</span>**
**<span class="Taggin-New">-establishing a $.32</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">/</span><span class="Taggin-New">kWH feed-in-tariff for OTEC energy,</span>**
**<span class="Taggin-New">-funding and completing a comprehensive resource assessment of OTEC potential in the US,</span>**
**<span class="Taggin-New">-delegating all authority over licensing and regulating OTEC facilities to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and apply a uniform regulatory standard simply requiring a broad public interest standard.</span>**

**<span class="Taggin-New">Incentives solve ---- spurs OTEC development</span>**
**<span class="Taggin-New">O’Neill ’07</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sean,- former Director of Public Affairs for U.S. Generating Company and founder of OREC, foundation dedicated to renewable technology development “Testimony Before the Committee on Science & Technology Subcommittee on Energy and Environment” http://democrats.science.house.gov/Media/File/Commdocs/hearings/2007/energy/17may/o'neill_testimony.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Q. 6 </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">What can Congress</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and/or the federal ... </span>for prototypes and demonstration projects.

**<span class="Taggin-New">Investment spurs OTEC --- solves energy security</span>**
**<span class="Taggin-New">Cohen ‘08 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert,- principal consultant at Energy for Sustainable Development and co-ordinator of the Europrosper and EPLABEL projects Aug. 23rd “Status and potential of ocean thermal energy technology” <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://i-r-squared.blogspot.com/2008/08/ocean-thermal-energy-conversion.html]]</span>) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unlike most renewable energy options, ... </span>means for mitigating global warming.

===GEO PIC=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its development of space beyond the earth’s mesosphere by developing and deploying a constellation of Space Solar Power for providing continuous power generation in Low Earth Orbit as per Zekavat.**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The CP solves the case better and avoids the GEO DA, environmental collapse</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zekavat ’10 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Seyed A,- professor in the department of Electrical Engineering and computer science at Michigan Tech University “A Novel Space-Based Solar Power Collection via LEO Satellite Networks: Orbital Management via Wireless Local Positioning Systems”)</span>
Climate change<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> coupled with rising … Figure 2 represents this scenario. </span>

**Net benefit –**


**<span style="color: #222222;">Plan causes conflicts over orbital slots – that breaks the OST</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Wallach, 10 </span>**<span style="color: #222222;">– </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">(Mark, JD Partner at Calfee, Halter & Griswold LLP, serves as Co-Chair of the Litigation Group of more than 40 attorneys,“Legal Issues for Space Based Solar Power,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/wallach.html) Idriss</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Another major, yet still</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> largely </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> space either efficiently or equitably."</span>

**<span style="color: #222222;">Those conflicts create space miscalculation</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Klotz 99</span>**<span style="color: #222222;">—Commander, Air Force Global Strike Command, Barksdale Air Force Base [Lt. Gen. Frank G. Klotz, Jan 1999, Space, Commerce, and National Security, Council on Foreign Relations, p.23-4]</span>
__<span style="color: #222222;">The scramble for geosynchronous slots</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__<span style="color: #222222;">is a case in point.</span>__


**<span style="color: #222222;">Independently, US withdrawal from the OST destroys it</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">Hickman and Dolman 2</span>** <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">(John Hickman is an associate professor in the Department of Government and International Studies at Berry College in Mt. Berry, Georgia. He has written many papers dealing with space policy and Everett Dolman, Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 2002 (“Resurrecting the Space Age: A State–Centered Commentary on the Outer Space Regime,” Comparative Strategy: Volume 21, Number 1 (2002), Page 20, Available Online to subscribing institutions at <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/014959302317350855]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> Thus a state party need … other celestial bodies might follow.</span>

**<span style="color: #222222;">That’s key to check space weaponization</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">Quinn 08</span>** <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">(J.D./M.B.A. Candidate 2010, University of Minnesota Law School and Carlson School of Management, Summer, LexisNexis Acedemic, “The New Age of Space Law: The Outer Space Treaty and the Weaponization of Space,” <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/]]</span>?)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> The possibility of space becoming … introduction of weapons to space.</span>

**Extinction**
**Mitchell, et al 1**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">)</span>

__A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.__


==DA== 
===Jay Dubya Ess Tea Tradeoff=== 

**James Webb will be funded now, but it’s still on the chopping block**
**Franzen, 9/16**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11 – (Carl, tech reporter at TPM Idea Lab, “Senate Appropriators Spare James Webb Space Telescope From The Chopping Block, For Now,” http://idealab.talkingpointsmemo.com/2011/09/senate-appropriators-spare-james-webb-space-telescope-from-the-chopping-block-for-now.php)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>James Webb<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Space Telescope - … Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland.</span>


**The plan forces a tradeoff**
**Morgan, ’10** – (7/8/10, Daniel, Congressional Research Service specialist in science and technology policy, Congressional Research Service, “The Future of NASA: Space Policy Issues Facing Congress,” opencrs.com/document/R41016/)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Issue for Congress: </span>Cost and <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the space shuttle program.</span>

**That destroys dark matter research – JWST funding is key**
**Roylance, 10/3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11 – (Frank, reporter for The Baltimore Sun, “Astronomers fret over Webb Telescope’s future,” [[http://articles.baltimoresun.com/2011-10-03/news/bs-md-webb-telescope-20111002_1_webb-telescope-webb-project-nasa]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Astrophysicists worry that </span>action<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in …</span> "dark matter,"<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the earliest galaxies. </span>

**Dark energy research is key to solve prolif**
**Acosta-Kane et. al. 07** – Department of Physics, Princeton University [12/3/07, D., “Discovery of underground argon with low level of radioactive 39Ar and possible applications to WIMP dark matter detectors,” http://arxiv.org/PS_cache/arxiv/pdf/0712/0712.0381v1.pdf DH]

__The existence of dark matter … **neutron detectors for port security.**__

**Prolif causes extinction**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">Krieger, 2009</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Pres. Nuclear Age Peace Foundation and Councilor –World Future Council, “Still Loving the Bomb After All These Years”,9-4, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/09/04_krieger_newsweek_response.php?krieger]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan Tepperman’s </span><span style="color: #00008e; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.newsweek.com/id/214248|article]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the … more rational than Mr. Tepperman?</span>

===Weaponization=== 
**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11**- senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]]</span>)

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">As is well understood, the … may lurk in these details.</span>

**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
**Dant, 11** - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Cooperation for contested and competitive … of responsible space-faring nations.</span>
**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**– president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span>)

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Perhaps of even greater concern … would be unacceptable to all.</span>

**Space control is impossible, countermeasures override deterrence and risk nuclear escalation**
**Krepon et al, 11**– President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space
Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">While some have compared space … use of force in space.</span>
==Politics DAs== 
===**SKFTA**=== 
**SKFTA will pass --- capital is key**
**Palmer 9-1** (Doug,- Reuters journalist [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902]])

This month business groups expect … agreements without TAA," said Trumka.

**The plan is perceived as a data sharing mechanism- empirically proven this has political ramifications**
**Weeden 10**- Brian Weeden, Technical Advisor for Secure World Foundation, Secure World Foundation Published 1 August 2010, The Norad Experience: Implications for International Space Surveillance Data-Sharing Executive http://swfound.org/media/1817/norad-exec-summ-bw-2010.pdf

A similar situation exists with … some level of data sharing.

**Key to U.S. leadership in Asia**
**Wharton School at U Penn, 1/12** (Knowledge at Wharton, “U.S.-South Korea Trade Pact: A Turning Point for American Exports?” 1/12/11, [[http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2671]], JMP)

What's more, the fate of … his reputation on the line."

**Collapses global hegemony and causes remilitarization, Taiwan conflict and instability in India-Pakistan and Korea**
**Goh, 8** – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database, JMP)

The centrality of these mutual … appear to be much worse.

**This causes great power nuclear conflict.**
**Gray, 05** – Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” http://www.carlisle.army. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm)
6. Interstate War, Down but Far … war: “fear, honor, and interest.”23

===Payroll Tax Cuts=== 

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Payroll tax break will pass now --- but capital is key</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Jackson 10-14 </span>
(David,- writer for USA Today “Obama, GOP push competing jobs plans”)
<span class="Underline">Look for</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> President </span><span class="Underline">Obama and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="Underline"> from vastly different talking points</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[Link] </span>

**Payroll tax cut portion of Jobs Bill needed to avert economic shock that will tip US back into a second recession**
**Washington Post, 9-8-11,** p. http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/just-how-effective-is-the-payroll-tax-cut/2011/09/08/gIQAodirCK_blog.html
President __Obama is expected to__ … __at least avert further degradation.__

**2. A double dip recession would be much worse than the first and trigger an economic depression**
**CNN Money, 8-10-11**, p. http://money.cnn.com/2011/08/10/news/economy/double_dip_recession_economy/index.htm
__Another recession could be even__ … __policy effort to counteract it.’’__

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Extinction</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Auslin ‘09 </span>
(Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman, Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6, http://www.aei.org/article/100187)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conversely, global policymakers do not … coalesce into </span>//a big bang//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


===Land and Water Conservation Fund=== 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Funding for the Land and Water conservation fund will pass now --- but capital is key</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Eilperin 10-11 </span>
(Juliet,- national environmental reporter for the Washington Post “Land and Water Conservation Fund under attack from Republicans in Congress”)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Land and Water Conservation … Conservation Fund's fiscal 2013 appropriations.</span>

**Economics prevent congressional support for SSP**
**__Mahan__ 7** (Rob, creator of citizens for //Space Based// Solar Power, C-SBSP, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://c-sbsp.org/sbsp-faq/]]</span>)
__The financial solution will admittedly … the highest hurdle of all.__


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The impact is a host of scenarios for environmental collapse, deforestation, warming and economic growth</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pope ’09 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Maddy,- Director of National Outreach, The Trust for Public Land) </span>
The LWCF is a vital<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> .. across the federal public lands. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">That’s key to the carbon cycle </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">National Science ‘98</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (America’s Amazing Carbon Sink, http://naturalscience.com/ns/articles/comment/ns_com07.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An article in the October 16, 1998 … </span> of biodiversit<span class="Underline">y</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has been clarified.</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Loss of these carbon sinks causes extinction</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Henderson ‘06 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bill Henderson, environmental scientist, “Runaway Global Warming Denial.” Countercurrents.org August 19, 2006. http://www.countercurrents.org/cc-henderson190806.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The scientific debate about human … leading to ever accelerating global. </span>

===Cybersecurity=== 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cybersecurity bill will pass --- top of the docket </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Christopherson 10-25 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Marc,- reporter for Insurance News “Legislators meet to determine a course of action for cybersecurity”)</span>
A //<span style="font-size: 10pt;">bipartisan</span>// cybersecurity bill may <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> come in the months ahead.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Capital key --- solves private sector security </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Etzioni ‘11 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Amitai,- University Professor and director of the Institute for Communitarian Policy Studies at The George Washington University “Cybersecurity in the Private Sector.” Issues in Science and Technology. 28.1, Fall) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">After major online breaches in … far from a secure bet. </span>

**The plan guarantees a political battle -- costs capital.**
**Boyle,** **11** (5/23/11, Rebecca, Popular Science, “As Congress Fusses Over Climate Semantics, the U.S. Faces a Weather Satellite Gap,” [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-05/satellite-funding-cuts-us-could-face-weather-satellite-gap]], Sawyer)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amid all this, </span><span class="Underline">the country’s</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span> danger of losing its funding.



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This is vital to secure critical infrastructure --- impact is the economy, food prices, energy shocks, and chemical industry</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sebastian ’09 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rohan,- research for the office of Virginia Senator Mark Warner CS Computer Science from UVA, 6-24 “The Federal Government’s Role in Preserving Cybersecurity for Critical Infrastructure”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The intersection of critical infrastructure …</span> political feasibility and industry acceptance<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Extinction </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Adhikari ’09 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard,- leading journalist on advanced-IP issues for several major publications, including The Wall Street Journal “Civilization's High Stakes Cyber-Struggle: Q&A With Gen. Wesley Clark (ret.)”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The conflicts in the Middle …</span> vitality and<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ultimately, </span>global civilization<span class="Underline">.</span>
==Case== 
====Case v. SSA (Whitney Young @ Greenhill Round Robin)==== 
=====Case – Heg===== 

**Current SSA solves**
**Krepon et al, 11** – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>)

Space situational awareness (SSA)—the … profession and space-industrial base.


<span class="Underline">**Even if war doesn’t escalate, desperate nations would not be deterred—takes out escalation solvency**</span>
**Morgan, 1o** – senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation (2010, Forrest E., RAND Corporation, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space”, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf)

The longer a conventional war … regimes and, potentially, their lives.

**No risk to hegemony – terrestrial back-up systems are providing the same benefits as satellites**
**Morgan, 10** - defense policy researcher working in RAND Corporation's Pittsburgh Office. Prior to joining RAND in January 2003, Dr. Morgan served a 27-year career in the U.S. Air Force (Forrest, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>

Another approach to reducing an … merit further exploration and development.

=====Case – Miscalculation===== 

**Aff doesn’t solve - multiple threats to satellites cannot be countered in space**
**DeBlois et al 4** (Bruce, Director of Systems Integration @ BAE Systems, Formerly Adjunct Fellow for Science and Tech @ CFR, Richard Garwin, IBM Fellow Emeritus @ Thomas Watson Research Center, Scott Kemp, Fulbright Fellow and Researcher @ Princeton, and Jeremy Maxwell, Furman Scholar @ NYU School of Law, “Space Weapons: Crossing the U.S. Rubicon,” International Security Vol 29 No 2, p. 50-84, http://www.fas.org/rlg/041100-rubicon.pdf, EMM)

The development of space weapons … space mine was in place.

**Cyberattacks will disable US space assets**
Donahue, 10 – USAF Major (Jack, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]</span>)

Another unpredictable driving force that … impact space systems for years.90

**No Russia Strike – Internal Stress**
**STRATFOR ‘01** (2001 annual forecast, January 1, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.stratfor.com/products/premium/read_article.php?selected=&id=101197&showForecasts=1&forecasts=1]]</span>)

Russia, likewise, is grossly unprepared … and bleed the country dry.

**Russia is not a military threat to the United States, and couldn’t do it if they tried**
**PEÑA ‘06** (Charles, senior fellow at the Independent Institute, a senior fellow with the Coalition for a Realistic Foreign Policy, a senior fellow with the George Washington University Homeland Security Policy Institute, an adviser to the Straus Military Reform Project, and an analyst for MSNBC television, antiwar.com, Feb. 16, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://antiwar.com/pena/?articleid=8546]]</span>)

With the demise of the … to equal the United States.

**Cubesats and rapid reconstitution abilities will avoid SSA – they are undetectable**
**Sweeting, 11** - Director of the Surrey Space Center, where he leads a team of 60 researchers investigating advanced small satellite concepts and techniques (Martin, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>)

It should also be borne … to 7.5 kilometers per second.


**US already making efforts to improve space situational awareness – partnerships and treaties**
**Overy 2011** - Professor of History at the University of Exeter [ Richard Overy. June 21, 2011. Review from the July-August issue. The National Interest. <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/bookreview/gods-flight-5452?page=3]]</span>. Accessed June, 23, 2011.]

The whole point of asymmetric … just twenty short years ago.

**The US already strong supports situational awareness and relaunch capabilities**
**Putnam, 2009** Maj. United States Air Force - Marine Corps Command and Staff College [Christopher, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&]
**Text: The United States federal government should mandate that all necessary U.S. military services undertake rigorous mission training without use of space systems. The United States federal government should develop alternative systems to space-based platforms including high-altitude, long endurance unmanned aerial vehicles, small stand-by satellites, and ground-based systems.**

**The CP solves the aff by removing U.S. space dependency and sending the perception that space attacks will fail, the CP also solves hegemony**
**Cheng, 8/16** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(8/16/11, Dean, Research Fellow in Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation, specializes in China’s military and foreign policy esp. in relationship with Asia and the U.S., “China’s Space Program: A Growing Factor in U.S. Security Planning,” [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]]) Idriss</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Increase alternatives to space systems. ... </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">in the event of conflict.</span>


===G=== 

====**T**==== 
**A. Interpretation**
**1. Increase means to become larger or greater in quantity**
**__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Encarta Online Dictionary</span>__**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 7pt;">. 2006. ("Increase." <http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620741>.)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">in·crease</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> [ in krss ]</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> transitive and intransitive verb (//past and past participle// in·creased, //present participle// in·creas·ing, //3rd person present singular// in·creas·es)Definition</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">: make or become larger or ... </span>****__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">number, quantity, or degree </span>__**noun (//plural// in·creas·es)

**2. ‘Its’ is a possessive pronoun showing ownership**
**Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 2005**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Mine, yours, his, hers, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">its ... </span>__that it belongs to me.)

**3. Specifically true on space policy**
**Berger, 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Houston Chronicle's space, weather and science reporter. (“NASA still being torn between commercial space and its own rockets,” Houston Chronicle Blog, 2/14, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://blog.chron.com/sciguy/2011/02/nasa-still-being-torn-between-commercial-space-and-its-own-rockets/]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">The president’s budget for NASA ... </span>NASA rocket and crew vehicle.


**4. Space development means the following**
**Weeks 04** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">-- E. E. Weeks currently lectures at Northern Arizona University in Flagstaff, Arizona in the US, and is writing a dissertation entitled The Politics of Space Law, in a Post Cold War Era. Weeks has published several articles and presented several papers at international conferences. After completing a Juris Doctors degree in Law from the University of Missouri-Columbia in 1987, Weeks worked in a number of laws firms and corporations performing legal research, he is the author of the “Outsiders' Guide to Understanding Outer Space Development” (E. E. Weeks, 2004, www.qpg.com/custom/1066021/powerpoint2.ppt)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Outer space development</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">means different ... </span><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 7pt;">n </span>__communication with extraterrestrial intelligence__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> To</span>


<span class="Underline">**Plan violates in 3 ways – doesn’t involve US action in space, no guarantee of development, and not permanent** </span>

<span class="Underline">**Dinkin, 04** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Sam, Ph.D. economist who specializes in auctions for privatization and industries in regulatory transition and has advised buyers and sellers in auctions for telecommunications and energy worth over $70 billion (“Property rights and space commercialization,” The Space Review, 4/10/04, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/141/1)</span><span class="Underline">**Red**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">While it is not really ... </span>time or lose the lease.

===St. Mark's Round 5 v. Kinkaid MR=== 

<span class="Underline">**Text: The fifty states and federal territorial governments should substantially increase necessary use and development of nanotechnology for beyond the]**</span>


====**States CP**==== 
<span class="Underline">**States can fund the plan, they provide infrastructure, facilities, and research support**</span>
**Nordan ’05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- Vice President Of Research, Lux Research, Inc ( Matthew M, Hearing, June, http://commdocs.house.gov/committees/science/hsy21950.000/hsy21950_0f.htm//JC)//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the NNAP report notes, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> State, and local nanotechnology activities.</span>//

//**State action solves – the states facilitate federal success in defense**//
//**FDI 05’** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Foreign Direct Investment, premier Financial Times Group publication for the business of globalization, “The Next Big Thing?”http://www.fdimagazine.com/news/fullstory.php/aid/1364/The_next_big_thing_.html</span>//JC)

__The US is by far__ …**__is government and defense related__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.72</span>

====**Vagueness**==== 
**A) Interpretation**
**The aff must defend its exploration and/or development in all instances**

**“Resolved” means a firm course of action**
**Merriam-Webster’s, 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(“Resolved,” [[http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/resolved]])</span>**Red**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">5: </span>**__to reach a firm decision__** …<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> disputed points in a text></span>


**B) Violation**
**1. THERE IS NO UNIVERSAL DEFINITION OF NANOTECHNOLOGY, ONLY OF RANDOM APPLICATIONS OF IT**
**Al-Rodhan, THEIR AUTHOR, 11** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nayef, Senior Member, St. Anthony’s College, Oxford University, and Director of Geopolitics of Globalization and Transnational Security Programme, Geneva Centre of Security Policy, __Politics of Emerging Strategic Technologies__, P. 127-128) Idriss</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The uncertainty surrounding the risks …</span> __of different sectors__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and industries.39 </span>



===St. Mark's Dou]=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Net benefit –</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Increased launches collapse ozone</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ross and Zittell 2k – Both PhDs in relevant fields</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Martin Ross, PhD from UCLA in Earth and Planetary Sciences, and Paul Zittel, PhD in Physical Chemistory, 6-2000, “Rockets and the Ozone Layer,” AeroSpace, http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html</span>
Rocket emissions have <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">two distinct …</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> stratosphere by natural atmospheric circulation.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thomas 6</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A Canadian atmospheric scientist warns …</span> shielding—but the stratosphere itself.

====**T - Mesosphere**==== 

**A. Interpretation – The mesosphere is the atmospheric region between 31-56 miles above the surface**
<span class="cite">National Weather Service, 11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Layers of the Atmosphere”, 2/11, http://www.srh.noaa.gov/jetstream//atmos/layers.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Stratosphere</span>
<span class="underline">The Stratosphere extends from the …</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> thermosphere is called the mesopause.</span>
**B. Violation –**
**2. Normal means is ground based – not specifying means that the plan isn’t topical**
**Bruneau and Lofquist-Morgan, 06**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - *Richard A., researcher at the Canadian Centre for Treaty Compliance (CCTC) in Ottawa, Canada, **Scott G., researcher with the Canadian Centre for Treaty Compliance (“Verification Models For Space Weapons Treaties: A Flexible, Layered Approach As a Negotiating Tool,” Building the Architecture for Sustainable Space Security Conference Report, Chapter 8, United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, March 2006, http://www.unidir.org/pdf/ouvrages/pdf-1-92-9045-185-8-en.pdf)Red</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Space situational awareness (SSA) is the … could also improve monitoring efforts.11</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]