[[toc]]
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Politics</span>= 

==SKFTA (Wake)== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Will Pass, Bipartisan support but Obamas key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Baker 9/27</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">(US Senate Tries To Push Pending FTA Approval by Leroy Baker, Tax-News.com, Washington27 September 2011[[http://www.tax-news.com/news/US_Senate_Tries_To_Push_Pending_FTA_Approval____51633.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #444444; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">The United States </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Senate has voted, on</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #444444; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;"> a bipartisan...</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama’s capital is necessary to pass trade deals – he needs to push to win over Democrats</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Palmer and Cowan 11</span> (Doug and Richard – Reuters, Boehner says Obama push needed to pass trade deals, 5/5/11,<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/05/05/us-usa-trade-boehner-idUSTRE74453V20110505]]</span>)
The U.S. House of Representatives hopes to pass...

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Free trade checks global nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Copley 1999</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (12/1, Copley News Service, Lexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">For decades, many children in America and other countries..</span>

==China Bashing (St. Marks-Ohio Valley)== 

China currency bill won’t pass now as long as Boehner and Obama are expending political capital to stop it
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Financial Times 10-4</span> (“US currency bill drama belies grind ahead” <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/ec234e82-eebc-11e0-959a-00144feab49a.html#axzz1bNkNv4XI|http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/ec234e82-eebc-11e0-959a-00144feab49a.html#axzz1bNkNv4XI]]</span>)
So, are they serious? Monday’s overwhelming vote….

Losing contentious spending fights kill Boehner’s capital
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">McManus 11</span> (Doyle, Washington Columnist for the LA Times. “Doyle McManus: No party for John Boehner”<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.limaohio.com/articles/boehner-63801-spending-federal.html]]</span>)
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Last week, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Boehner and Reid agreed to</span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">…</span>

Currency bill causes trade war, kills dollar heg, and kills relations
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">De Santis 10-7</span> (Hugh De Santis is a strategic analyst and consultant. He is a former career officer in the Department of State and senior official at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the RAND Corporation. “China Currency Manipulation: Protectionism Not The Answer” <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://acus.org/new_atlanticist/china-currency-manipulation-protectionism-not-answer]]</span>)
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Election-year politics aside, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">imposing tariffs</span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">…</span>

Trade war destroys global econom causing global war and risks nuclear war between the US and China
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Eland 05</span> (Ivan, Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute. “Avoid Threatening China Over Its Currency.” May 31, 2005 <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=1515]]</span>)
Some senators are already threatening to raise tariffs…

==Jackson-Vanik (Blake)== 
Lawmakers support a Jackson-Vanik repeal – state department push
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AFP 12-15</span>__**(“US lawmakers decry Russia vote, warn of blacklist” http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5iH9wxknv_vcycrpLJd0TnW12g0ng?docId=CNG.42d583e694cffdb6a1c0086c90997fa9.91)
<span class="Underline0">State Department officials urged the committee AND </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">move for US-Russia relations. </span>

Obama’s PC is key
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moscow Times 12-14</span>__**(“Russia in WTO: U.S. Congress Not Ready For Russian WTO Entry” http://www.themoscowtimes.com/business/article/russia-in-wto-us-congress-not-ready-for-russian-wto-entry/449843.html#ixzz1giqgHeOP)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Members of the World Trade Organization AND </span><span class="Underline0">the administration of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> President Bill </span><span class="Underline0">Clinton</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
Jackson-Vanik repeal key to Russian relations and the US economy
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miller 11</span>__**(Jacqueline McLaren, senior associate at the EastWest Institute. “The WTO and the Reset.” http://www.ewi.info/wto-and-reset)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="Underline0">Jackson-Vanik</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> amendment to AND </span><span class="Underline0">the U.S. economy. </span>

Increasing US Russia Relations key to solve prolif, nuclear terrorism and nuclear use
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perry and Scowcroft, ’09</span> (William and brent, Chairs CFR, april, “US Nuclear Weapons Policy”)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Despite nearly universal opposition, North AND </span><span class="underline" style="font-size: 11pt;">a high level of mutual trust</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">. </span>

==Payroll Tax Cut (MBA)== 
PTC will pass, Obama has the upper hand, it’s at the top of the docket and Obama’s pushing it
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WSJ 12-31</span>__**(Wall Street Journal. “WSJ: White House Looks To Shrunken 2012 Legislative Agenda” Factivia.)
<span class="Underline">The president's central focus after he AND </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and grandchildren to grow up in." </span>

[Insert Link]

Obama must use all of his PC to get it passed
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Philadelphia Inquirer 11</span>__**(“POINT: Don't expect miracles on job growth” http://articles.philly.com/2011-09-08/news/30130709_1_jobs-plan-american-economy-rare-tax)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fundamental problem in the American AND </span><span class="Underline">tax cut</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and continuing unemployment insurance. </span>

Failure to pass an extension causes a double-dip recession
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CNN Money 12-20</span>__**(“Economists: Payroll tax deadlock could hobble economy” http://www.chicagotribune.com/business/breaking/chi-economists-payroll-tax-deadlock-could-hobble-economy-20111220,0,7377025.story)
<span class="Underline">If Congress fails to pass an AND us much, much more growth." </span>

Double-dip recession would cause massive depression with no hope of recovery
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CNN Money 11</span>__**(“Recession 2.0 would hurt worse” 8-10. http://money.cnn.com/2011/08/10/news/economy/double_dip_recession_economy/index.htm)
<span class="Underline">Another recession could be even worse AND no policy effort to counteract it. </span>

Economic collapse would end U.S. leadership and start multiple international wars.
Aaron **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg</span>__**, Professor of politics at Witherspoon Institute, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span>__**Gabriel **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schoenfeld</span>__**, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, 10/28/20**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span>__**, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Then there are the dolorous consequences AND as the one we now face.</span>

=START DA= 
**Current US policy supports arms control and follows the new START treaty**
**Tauscher 11** (Ellen, Secretary for Arms Control and International Security, Speech given at Nuclear Treaty Conference in New York, Sep 23 11, http://www.uspolicy.be/headline/under-secretary-tauscher-nuclear-treaty-conference-new-york)
I am so pleased to be AND Treaty (**__NPT__**) Review Conference.

**If U.S. doesn’t consult Russia on SMD, they will withdraw from START**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Anton </span>****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kulikov</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jan 27**, 2011**Russia responds to USA with own air and space defense system [[http://english.pravda.ru/russia/politics/27-01-2011/116683-russia_defense_system-0/]]</span>
Russian Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov said AND __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">consultative committee,</span>__ reports RIA Novosti.

**START prevents accidental nuclear war**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DPC, 2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">http://dpc.senate.gov/docs/fs-111-2-30.html</span>
__The START Treaty has led to AND , and global security__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.[[http://dpc.senate.gov/docs/fs-111-2-30.html#_edn8|[8]]]</span>

=Mil DA= 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A. US is pursuing multilateral cooperation in all facets of space- prefer our evidence</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">DOS 11/17</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (U.S. Department of State. “Leading with Diplomacy to Strengthen Stability in Space.” http://www.state.gov/t/avc/rls/177306.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Orbital Debris Mitigation One </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">issue that AND </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">faring nations to begin similar dialogues. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">B. Space exploration is used as a tool of dominance --- unilateral actions are perceived as a demonstration of power regardless of actual use</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lele 10 </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Ajey, Research Fellow, Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, “An Asian Moon race?”, Space Policy)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">1. Asia in space </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Globally AND </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">against the backdrop of these realities.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">C. Space weaponization causes prolif, decreases relations, kills the environment, and causes terrorism, leading to extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Krepon 4,</span>** s co-founder of Stimson, and director of the South Asia and Space Security programs, in ‘4
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, Summer/Fall 2004, Safeguarding Space for All: Security and Peaceful Uses—Conference Report, 25–26 March 2004, United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (UNIDIR), 2005]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">The United States and the international AND barriers against the weaponization of space.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 15pt;">India Launch DA</span>= 


<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">A. US launches forces a tradeoff with India</span>
Taverna and Neelam 7
(Michael Taverna and Neelam Mathews, Aviation Week & Space Technology, “Changing Dynamics; NASA launch policy shift oculd add to ITAR woes, putting more pressure on US exports” October 8, 2007, Lexis-Nexis Academic)

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">U.S.</span>____<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">small satellite manufacturer...</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">shutting out supposed security threats.</span>


<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">B. Indian launch services are vital to Indian soft power and to the global economy</span>
Lele 7- Research Fellow at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi.
(Ajey, India Strategic, “Space Program Addin to India’s Brand Image” July 2007, <span style="color: #0d0d0d;">[[http://www.indiastrategic.in/topstories23.htm]]</span>)
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">International prestige in science and technolog...in space research and capabilities. </span>__

<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">C. That’s key to global democracy promotion – solves war, terrorism, environmental collapse, and disease</span>
Diamond 7 – senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University
(Larry, Times of India, "India, Take the Lead," 12-13-2007, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/Opinion/Editorial/LEADER_ARTICLE_India_Take_The_Lead/articleshow/2617945.cm]]</span>) // JMP

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Whether it wants to be so or not...setting dialogues, such as the G8.</span>