=1AC-Inh= 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention 1 is the status quo</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">No cooperation in space now, but coop in the future would create transparency</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Space.com 11/3</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">/11 (the world's No. 1 source for news of astronomy, skywatching, space exploration, commercial spaceflight and related technologies. “NASA Chief Says US Could Cooperate with China in Space”. http://www.space.com/13492-china-united-states-space-cooperation-nasa.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">While China and AND station by 2020.</span>


**NASA will leave the ISS now**

**Palmer** 10-30-**11** (Brian, “How long could the International Space Station last without astronauts?” http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/explainer/2011/08/the_space_station_without_us.html
NASA may have AND down in 1979.

=1AC-Plan= 


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its space exploration using the International Space Station, including an offer to the People’s Republic of China of participation in joint International Space Station activities. </span>

=1AC- Wep Adv= 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Our Advantage is Weaponization</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">China’s rapid militarization of space is caused by American unilateral space leadership, making a cycle of Chinese miscalculated space war inevitable in the status quo</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Zhang ’11</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Baohui Zhang is Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, Number 2, pg 311-313, JSTOR) TJL</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, in the AND planning and/or activity.</span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And China is making strategic long-term moves towards ASAT development</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Adams 10</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Jonathan. "China is on path to 'militarization of space'." Christian Science Monitor 28 Oct. 2010: N.PAG. Academic Search Premier. EBSCO) TJL</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">China looks set AND lead in space.</span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And the Chinese are on the verge of having full US satellite take-out capabilities </span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ressler 9 </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron R. U.S. Air Force Major, “Advancing Sino-U.S. Space Cooperation”, April 2009, p. 1-2, http://www.dtic.mil/cgibin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA539619) TJL</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition to AND in the future.</span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Current US space policy makes U.S.-China war and miscalculation inevitable </span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Zhang ’11</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Baohui Zhang is Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, Number 2, pg 314-315, JSTOR) TJL</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Although many U.S. AND take similar measures.</span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And space wars causes miscalculation and war – Draws in other powers</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell et al 01</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Gordon, Associate Professor of Communication at the University of Pittsburg, July 2001. ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defense no. 6, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6_paper.html. ) TJL</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">A buildup of AND conflict ever seen.</span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And US-Chinese space cooperation is a prerequisite to solving further ASAT deployment and miscalculation by increasing transparency</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ressler 9</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron R, Major, USAF, under the direction of Edwina S. Campbell, Ph.D, “Advancing Sino-US Space Cooperation”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA539619]]</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">)TJL</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">After reviewing Chinese AND of such activities.</span>


**US-China war causes extinction - Perception of rational escalation ensures nuclear arms race over Taiwan**

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Glaser 11</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, **PolSci Prof at Goerge Washington,**</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (Charles, March/April, “Will China’s Rise Lead to War?” Foreign Affairs, Vol 90 Issue 2, EbscoHost)</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">**Accommodation on Taiwan AND of U.S.-Chinese relations.**</span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">China wants cooperation now – US policy is the only thing stopping productive relations </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Martina,11</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Reuters correspondent on Chinese international affairs, “China astronaut calls for U.S. cooperation”,4/29/11, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/04/29/us-china-space-idUSTRE73S4BS20110429]]</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">China's most renowned AND of space exploration.</span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">No cooperation over space ensures that any attempt to boost relations will fail </span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens and Chen 8</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Theresa, Center for Defense Information, World Security Institute and David, CENTRA Technology, Inc, “Forging a Sino-US ‘‘grand bargain’’ in space” Space Policy 24 (2008) pg. 128–131, Available Online at Sciencedirect.com) TJL</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In Washington's space AND the Pacific region.</span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The ISS is key—it spills over to broader cooperation.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zhou 8</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Yi Zhou, Center for Space Science and Applied Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, George Washington University, "Perspectives on Sino-US cooperation in civil space programs", 7/14/08, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964608000404/avi|www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964608000404//]]</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">]</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Benefits for geopolitical AND and national benefits. </span>


=1AC- Slv= 



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention 2 is Solvency</span>


**China says yes – but only to the Plan**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">CCTV </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">11/11/**11** (national tv station for the People’s Republic of China. “China, U.S. vow to strengthen cooperative partnership”. http://english.cntv.cn/20111111/110546.shtml)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">China is willing AND Iran's nuclear issue.</span>


**China will say yes**

**Houpt, Master of Arts, Security Studies, Georgetown University, 2011**

(Daniel M., “Does China have a comprehensive, coordinated, and consistent space policy? Implications for U.S. policymakers,” p. 58-59)
Finally, the U.S. AND communication and trust.

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Revitalizing the ISS leads to new medical research that solves disease</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Dinerman 07</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Taylor, writing for a variety of publications including Ad Astra, The Wall Street Journal and the American Spectator. He was a regular contributor with a weekly piece for Jeff Foust's Space Review and now writes for the Hudson Institute New York, “Medical research on the ISS: will it payoff at last?” 4-23-07 [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/856/1%29TJL|http://www.thespacereview.com/article/856/1)TJL]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Based on limited AND NASA service provider. </span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">China will say yes – Official Chinese announcements prove</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hoffman 7 (Michael, staff editor at Daily Tech, “China wants to join International Space Station Project”10/16/7 </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dailytech.com/article.aspx?newsid=9290]]</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Chinese space officials AND plans for space. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">ISS cooperation is the only way to solve– increases transparency and solves relations</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Houpt, Master of Arts, Security Studies, Georgetown University, 2011</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Daniel M., “Does China have a comprehensive, coordinated, and consistent space policy? Implications for U.S. policymakers,” ProQuest, accessed 7/1/11, p. 58-59)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Finally, the U.S. AND communication and trust.</span>


=Contention 3= 
**Key to predictability- unlimited counterplans people can make up and experts don’t address them in the literature, undervalues their opinion and prevents in-depth discussion on them**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kagan 01, Visiting Professor @ Harvard Law, former Deputy Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and Deputy Director of the Domestic Policy Council, 2K1 (Elena, June, “Presidential Administration”, Harvard Law Review, Vol. 114, No. 8)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A more difficult AND the administrative enterprise.</span>**

**Collapses democratic accountability and triggers unintended consequences in EVERY crisis facing government**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">AALEP 05, umbrella organisation for the European Parliament Lobby Corps, (May, “The Case for Lobbyists”, The Lobby Radar Vol 1 No 5, Newsletter of the Association of Accredited Lobbyists to the European Parliament)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lobbyists represent diverse AND and less accountability. </span>**

**Reduced democratic accountability causes multiple scenarios for global destruction**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Boggs 97, Political Science Prof @ National University, (Carl, Dec, “The Great Retreat”, Theory and Society, Vol. 26, No. 6.)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The decline of AND from civil society.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">It isn’t ok if they have various cards that, put together, advocate their counterplan. The literature doesn’t respond to separate ideas that debaters can cram together. Experts just dismiss the nonsense. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hanson</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Prof of Econ @ George Mason University, </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2K7</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Feb 3rd, “What Evidence in Silence or Confusion”, </span>**[[http://www.overcomingbias.com/2007/02/what_evidence_i.html|**http://www.overcomingbias.com/2007/02/what_evidence_i.html**]]**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">My question is AND on the web.</span>**





=<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive; font-size: 30pt;">Negative</span>= 
==**Disadvantages**== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**Weaponization**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Obamas NSP is shaping a world of cooperation and moving towards arms control – our actions now are uniquely key to the future of space</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Smith 11 [Marci Smith, president of the space and technology policy group, former director of the space studies board, former senior analyst at the congressional research service a non partisan policy institute; 5/17/11 “Impact of the Obama Space Policy One Year On -- Experts Say It’s All in the Implementation” [[http://spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1639]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The upshot of the Secure World Foundation's (SWF's) … that "international engagement has been energized." Baseley-Walker went further, saying that the policy "changed the tone internationally" and "getting out early and loudly was great" from an international perspective.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**Altering military calculations in space collapses cooperation and results in weapons deployment**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Gallagher ’10 [Nancy, Associate Director for Research at the Center for International and Security Studies at Maryland, Senior Research Scholar at the University of Maryland's School of Public Policy; published in Astropolitics, Volume 8 Issue 2, May 2010 “ Space Governance and International Cooperation” [[http://www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/space_governance_and_international_cooperation.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Russian and Chinese arms control experts see a very … using a less adversarial, more ambitious, and more inclusive rationale.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**Extinction and turns the case**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Mitchell, et al 01 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July,[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble …could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

===**Russia Relations**=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**Russia and the U.S. are committed to space cooperation**</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Pasztor ’10</span>. <span style="font-size: 8px;">Andy-Senior special writer at the Los Angeles bureau of The Wall Street Journal, has more than 25 years experience covering local, national and international politics and business. “Russia Seeks Cooperation With U.S. in Space Effort.” Wall Street Journal 5-19-10</span>
Russian leaders are trying to use<span class="underline">...it's time to look beyond" low-earth orbit</span>.

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**S****pace cooperation is the lynchpin of US-Russia relations – acting without Russia in space destroys it-**</span>
Millar and Logsdon 1 <span style="font-size: 8px;">(John M. Logsdon is the Director of the Space Policy Institute of the George Washington University's Elliott School of International Affairs. He is also Professor of Political Science and International Affairs. James R. Millar is the Director of the Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies, and Professor of Economics and International Affairs, at the Elliott School of International Affairs, George Washington University. “U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight Assessing the Impacts” Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies Elliott School of International Affairs The George Washington University Washington, DC, February)</span>
Even though, this same participant noted, <span class="underline">"</span>Within<span class="underline"> this context of the evolution of US-Russian relations...</span>are critical to our future bilateral relationship<span class="underline">.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**Stabilizing coo****peration in space solves accidental war – resulting tech innovations prevent the erosion of early warning systems-**</span>
Millar and Logsdon 1 <span style="font-size: 8px;">(John M. Logsdon is the Director of the Space Policy Institute of the George Washington University's Elliott School of International Affairs. He is also Professor of Political Science and International Affairs. James R. Millar is the Director of the Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies, and Professor of Economics and International Affairs, at the Elliott School of International Affairs, George Washington University. “U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight Assessing the Impacts” Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies Elliott School of International Affairs The George Washington University Washington, DC, February)</span>
It was noted that "<span class="underline">an important issue is</span>....spillover may be a much more serious issue."

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive; font-size: 14px;">**Extinction**</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bostrom 2002</span>(Nick, PhD of Philosophy at Oxford, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span>)
<span class="underline">A much greater existential risk....humankind’s potential permanently</span>

===Death of The Natural=== 
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**<span style="font-size: 12px;"><span style="font-size: 14px;">We’re impact turning their extinction impact. Human extinction is good because it prevents inevitable human domination of the univers</span>e. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kochi and Ordan 2008</span><span style="color: #000000;">, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Tarik is a lecturer in the School of Law, Queen's University, Belfast, Northern Ireland. Noam is a linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, Israel. 'An argument for the global suicide of humanity', Borderlands, December)</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_6981/is_3_7/ai_n31524968/?tag=content;col1]]</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">In 2006 on an Internet forum called Yahoo! Answers a question was posted which read</span><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">.....would be the global suicide of humanity</span>.</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive; font-size: 14px;">**The capacity of nature to be different from us precedes all other sources of value. If humans survive, we will re-engineer everything—atoms, cells, ourselves, and even other planets. All natural Otherness from the molecular to the extra-terrestrial will be systematically eliminated. This the biggest impact**.</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;"> Keekok </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Lee</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">, Visiting Chair in Philosophy at Lancaster University, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">1999</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;"> [//The Natural and the Artefactual// p. 2-4]</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">To appreciate this dimension one needs to highlight the distinction between.... In this sense, ontology precedes axiology. </span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 14px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Destruction of non-living existence throughout the universe must be rejected. Extra-terrestrial nature will still have value even if we’re all dead because it has its own trajectory of existence</span>.** </span>
<span style="color: #000000;"> Keekok </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lee</span><span style="color: #000000;">, Visiting Chair in Philosophy at Lancaster University, </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">1999</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">[//The Natural and the Artefactual// p. 226-228]</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">We should not delude ourselves that the humanization of nature will stop at biotic nature or indeed be confined only to planet Earth..... nature's forms and processes embodying this value exist </span><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">whether human­kind is around or no</span>t.</span>


==**Qritiq**== 
==Deep Ecology== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**The sun does not revolve around the earth and the universe does not revolve around humanity. We are a speck floating a vast flux of creation and destruction. The cosmos expresses value beyond the boundaries of humanity or even life.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Chapman 2004, </span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Steven is the director of the Foundation for Ecology and Culture, a San Francisco-based non-profit working to promote new cultural paradigms for a sustainable future., ‘On the Question of Science in “The Inhumanist”’, Jeffers Studies - Jointly Sponsored by California State University, Long Beach, Volume 8, Fall)</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.jeffers.org/js/issues/vol8num2/v008_n002.pdf#page=36|http://www.jeffers.org/js/issues/vol8num2/v008_n002.pdf#page=36]]</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">“The Inhumanist,” the second narrative of The Double Axevolume....the context within which our human tragedies are played out</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Ethics is Thinking -Feeling-Acting. You CANNOT Objectively Survey Existence –Reject 1AC Anthropocentrism to Attune Your Decision to the Creative-Destructive Flows of the Cosm</span>**os.
**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;"> Henning 2k9</span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">,</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Brian, ‘TRuSTINg IN THE ‘EffICaCy Of BEauTy: A KAlocentric ApproAch to MorAl philosophy’, //Ethics and the Environment//)</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">Final truths (whether in religion, morality, or science) are unattainable...for others, and for the whole of reality</span>


**V<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">oting Negative Escapes the Despair of the Humans. You are Apes and Dirt; Stars and Rocks; Dinosaurs and Bacteria—Billions of Years of Cosmic Creativity. Value the Wonderful Aliveness of the Universe Beyond Your Capacity to Destroy</span>.**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Seed, 1995 </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">(John, “Beyond Anthropocentrism”, [[http://www.rainforestinfo.org.au/deep-eco/Anthropo.htm]]]</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">"Anthropocentrism" or "homocentrism" means human chauvinism...one that is sustainable and in harmony with life again.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**We must respect the extra-terrestrial abiotic—anything with formed integrity has value**</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Holmes </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rolston</span><span style="color: #000000;"> III, Professor of Philosophy at Colorodo State University, </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">1986</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">[//Beyond Spaceship Earth// p. 170-177]</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">Humans ought to preserve projects of formed integrity, wherever found....Rule‑4 is the forward­looking complement to Rule 3, a retrospective rule</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**Extra-terrestrial existence has value that is not reducible to its capacity for life**</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Holmes </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rolston</span><span style="color: #000000;"> III, Professor of Philosophy at Colorodo State University, </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">1986</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 16px; text-align: justify;">[//Beyond Spaceship Earth// p. 154-158]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12px;">Overlaying anthropic nature on accidental nature...pinnacle of, projective nature. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**We must give moral consideration to everything that projects growth and fulfillment, even beyond the limits of the Earth**</span>
<span style="color: #000000;"> J. Baird </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Callicott</span><span style="color: #000000;">, Professor of Philosophy at University of Wisconsin, </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">1986</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">[//Beyond Spaceship Earth// p. 247-251]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Anticipating the need for policy decisions regarding space exploration...that would cause a regional scale disaster.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**The bodies in the solar system all have value**</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Holmes</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rolston</span><span style="color: #000000;">III, Professor of Philosophy at Colorodo State University, </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">1986</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times;">[//Beyond Spaceship Earth// p. 164-168]</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">The advent and academic notoriety of the animal liberation/rights ethics...difference between the possession of moral rights and moral considerability.46</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**Solar ethics beyond consequentialism deontology**</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Michael A </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Peters</span><span style="color: #000000;">, Prof Education at University Illinois-Champagne, </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2008</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">[with Ruyu Hung “Solar Ethics: A New Paradigm for Environmental Ethics?” //Environmental Education: Identity, Politics and Citizenship//, ed. E. González-Gaudiano and M.A. Peters] </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">However, in our view, </span>the solar ethics is an ethical frame of mind....which may indicate an extension of environmental ethics and also a basis for the study of environmental education.

==Astropolitics== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**First, the affirmative’s discourse of space as a solution to apocalyptic threats to earth is trojan horse for the securitization of the heavens—their benign rhetoric will become a mask for militarism**</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Columba </span>//Peoples, 2010//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">, School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies, University of Bristol, The growing ‘securitization’ of outer space , Space Policy 26 (2010) 205-208</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Although it may feel like it at times, the militarization/weaponization debate...Focusing on militarization and weaponization alone simply isn’t sufficient</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**And, securitization commits itself to an ontological ordering of not only conflict and war, but life itself—this drive guarantees a reproduction of the mass graves and nuclear holocausts of the 20th century**</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Anthony </span>//Burke, 2007//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">, senior lecturer at University of New South Whales, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”, theory & Event, 10, 2</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">By itself, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">such an account of the nationalist ontology</span>...human lives are reduced to tools, obstacles, useful or obstinate matter.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**And, The alternative is to refuse securitization—the discourse of security needs to constantly reproduce itself in everyday debates on foreign policy—vote negative to interrupt the hegemony circulation of security knowledge**</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Anthony </span>//Burke, 2007//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">, Senior Lecturer in the School of Politics and Int. Relations at the Univ of New South Wales, Sydney, Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence, 52-3</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">It is perhaps easy to become despondent, but<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as countless struggles for freedom....and what its shimmering possibilities might be.</span></span>


==Satellites/Biopower== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**Even civilian satellite technology cultivates a strategic gaze that promotes militarism and violence—the view of the Earth from above desensitizes us to war**</span>
**Stahl 2010**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> [Roger Stahl, Associate Professor, Dept. of Speech Communication, University of Georgia, “BECOMING BOMBS: 3D ANIMATED SATELLITE IMAGERY AND THE WEAPONIZATION OF THE CIVIC EYE”, MediaTropes eJournal</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Vol II, No 2 (2010) http://www.mediatropes.com/index.php/Mediatropes/article/viewFile/11945/8827] </span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">The political economy of this military-media-geotech...constructive, theatrical process.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**This imperial strategy based on the view from space will end in nuclear extinction**</span>
**KROKER AND KROKER 2006**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> [Arthur Kroker is Canada Research Chair in Technology, Culture and Theory, Professor of Political Science, and Director of the Pacific Centre for Technology and Culture at the University of Victoria. Marilouise Kroker is Senior Research Scholar at the University of Victoria. Interview with William Wood published in “Culture, power, and history: studies in critical sociology”, Stephen J. Pfohl, ed., Google Books] </span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Krokers: The theory of viral power was written within...warfare in the darkness of space.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**Global vision destroys our relationship to being and renders life calculable—we should acknowledge ontology as a prior question**</span>
**TURNBULL 2006, -** <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Senior Lecturer in Philosophy and Social Theory at. Nottingham Trent University, [Neil, “The Ontological Consequences of Copernicus Global Being in the Planetary World”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">More generally, however,...ways of being-in-the-world.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**Rejection of First World technosubjectivity is necessary to form links with indigenous struggles against global vision and transnational capitalism—the sequence of this struggle means that no permutation can succeed**</span>
**KATO 93**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Masahide, dept of political science, U of Hawaii, “Nuclear Globalism: Traversing Rockets, Satellites, and Nuclear War via the Strategic Gaze,” Alternatives, Summer)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">The dialectic (if it can be still called such)...the "real" of the latter</span>

==Counter Proposals== 
===ESA CP=== 

T<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**ext: The European Space Agency should<insert plan>. The European Space Agency should provide all necessary support.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**The ESA is improving space exploration in the status quo – experiments prove**</span>
Thomas **Reiter 11** [Thomas Reiter is the head of ESA's manned space program]<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12px;">(</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">07.08. 2011</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">”Future of space exploration is bright, German astronaut says,” </span>__http://www.dw-world.de/dw/article/0,,15217461,00.html)__
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Mr. Reiter, you are responsible for the ISS within the ESA....of the people here on Earth.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**The ESA is comparatively better at space exploration than NASA or Russia**</span>
Thomas Reiter 11 [Thomas Reiter is the head of ESA's manned space program]<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12px;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">07.08. 2011</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">”Future of space exploration is bright, German astronaut says,” </span>__http://www.dw-world.de/dw/article/0,,15217461,00.html)__
How is the European space program in comparison<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">...decision-making process.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Ukraine CP </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">CP text: The United States federal government should grant permission to Ukraine Space Agency to launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory. The Ukraine Space Agency will share all data produced by the Deep Space Climate Observatory with the United States.</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ukraine wants to do the plan – and their rockets are better</span>**</span>

__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 16px;">Anderson 6</span>__ <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Mitchell, Vancouver based researcher and writer. He worked for eight years as a staff scientist at Sierra Legal Defence Fund and has written extensively on environmental and social policy issues for a variety of national and international publications, “Anyone for a DSCOVR Bake Sale?”, October 2nd, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.desmogblog.com/anyone-for-a-dscovr-bake-sale]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13.3333px;">)</span>
Sounds pretty important...sitting in box in Maryland