[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Plans Read (Reverse Chronological Order)== 

Text: The Department of Defense should develop and demonstrate space based solar power.

Text: The Department of Defense should develop and demonstrate elliptical orbit space-based solar power.

Text: The Department of Defense should create and demonstrate space-based solar power in elliptical Molniya orbit.


Text: The Department of Defense should develop non-geostationary space based solar power for its energy needs.

Text: The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should demonstrate non-geostationary space based solar power for its energy needs.
==State 1AC== 
===Card Added in Octos=== 
Specifically – Chinese nanotech development is rapid – government investment drives sector growth
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Huang and Wu ’11</span>, Can, researcher at the United Nations University, professor at Maastricht university, Yilan, Head of the Center of Applied Statistics at Renmin University in China, “State-led Technological Development: A Case of China’s Nanotechnology Development”, [[http://conferences.library.gatech.edu/acsip/index.php/acsip/ATLC11/paper/view/376/323]], DKreus
From here on the paper … 15 percent rates in annual growth.
===Offshore Balancing Advantage=== 
Advantage 3 is Offshore Balancing: Hegemony is unsustainable – 3 warrants
1—Rising powers
Layne ’12, Christopher Layne, prof of political science at Texas A&M, 1-04-2012, “This Time It’s Real: The End of Unipolarity and the Pax Americana”. International Studies Quarterly, doi: [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1468-2478.2011.00704.x/full]], DKreus

The ascent of new great … to challenge the United States.

2—Dollar collapse
Layne ’12, Christopher Layne, prof of political science at Texas A&M, 1-04-2012, “This Time It’s Real: The End of Unipolarity and the Pax Americana”. International Studies Quarterly, doi: [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1468-2478.2011.00704.x/full]], DKreus

America’s geopolitical preeminence hinges on … political and military predominance” (Kirshner 2008).

3—Defense cuts
Layne ’12, Christopher Layne, prof of political science at Texas A&M, 1-04-2012, “This Time It’s Real: The End of Unipolarity and the Pax Americana”. International Studies Quarterly, doi: [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1468-2478.2011.00704.x/full]], DKreus

With US defense spending currently … important drivers of American decline.

Transition is inevitable but American military power is key to prevent global chaos and extinction – there’s no alternative
Brzezinski, ’12 [Zbigniew Brzezinski, CSIS counselor and trustee and cochair of the CSIS Advisory Board, Robert E. Osgood Professor of American Foreign Policy at the School of Advanced International Studies @ Johns Hopkins University, cochair of the American Committee for Peace in the Caucasus and a member of the International Advisory Board of the Atlantic Council, recipient of numerous honors and awards. “After America”. Foreign Policy, Jan/Feb 2012. [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/03/after_america?page=0,1]]]

Not so long ago, a high-… a dangerous slide into global turmoil.

Transition of offshore balancing is coming now – but constraints on power ensure it will fail – air power, naval power, and mid-east withdrawal are k2 make it work
Layne ’12, Christopher Layne, prof of political science at Texas A&M, 1-27-2012“The (Almost) Triumph of Offshore Balancing”, [[http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/almost-triumph-offshore-balancing-6405?page=1]], DKreus

Although cloaked in the reassuring … military role must remain undiminished.

Only the plan solves –
First – only federal investment into SPS invigorates aerospace leadership

NSSO ’07, National Security Space Office, October 10,2007, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]], “Space Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, pg 15, 16. DKreus
FINDING: The SBSP Study Group … a powerful expression of this imperative.

Independently, that’s key to military force projection

Walker et al, ’02, - Robert Walker, Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, November 2002, [[http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf]], DKreus) Defending our nation against its … the world’s preeminent military power.

Second is Oil Dependency:
SSP turns the US into a net energy exporter
Chapman et al ’11 – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program, Phil, March, 2011, [[http://solarhigh.org/Overview.htmlThe|http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html]]

The expected cost of deploying … electricity as well as petroleum.

That solves military adventurism and prevents backlash
Collina ’05 [Tom Z. Collina, Executive Director of 20-20Vision; testimony in front of Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs United States Senate; “Oil Dependence and U.S. Foreign Policy: Real Dangers, Realistic Solutions” October 19, 2005; [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2005_hr/051020-collina.pdf]] STRONG]

If we do not seize … here in the United States. vi

Independently – that’s k2 facilitate sea basing Perry 9 (Michael, US Navy Commander, " IMPORTANCE OF SEABASING TO LAND POWER GENERATION," U.S. Army War College, 6/5, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA508337]], EMM)

This study reaches six conclusions … relative security of the sea.

Solves naval power Perry 9 (Michael, US Navy Commander, " IMPORTANCE OF SEABASING TO LAND POWER GENERATION," U.S. Army War College, 6/5, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA508337]], EMM)

Relationship of Seabasing to the … Strategies of the United States. 

===NASA Credibility (I/L - Kudos to Mountain Brook)=== 
NASA budget is on the chopping block – public interest is at an all time low – only SPS can restore credibility and funding – its specifically key to the human space program
Costa ’10 (Rebecca, Sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, [[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can]]- NASA-save-struggling-america/, EMM)

If we took a moment to … remote villages of the world.
Construction of the SPS itself is key to revitalize NASA as an agency – makes it relevant to the average American and ensures future funding and ambitious missions Pelton ’06, Director of the Space & Advanced Communications Research Institute @ George Washington University (Joseph, "Revitalizing NASA? A five-point plan," October 16, Science Direct, EMM)

The key question that everyone—i.e. … technical help to key projects.

Scenario 1 is James Webb Telescope:
James Webb is alive now – but barely – broad political support is key to maintain current funding
Hsu 2/27/12, Jeremy Hsu, Innovation News Daily Senior Writer, “Next Space Telescope Must Survive ‘Big Science’ Questions”, [[http://www.space.com/14690-space-telescope-survive-big-science-questions.html]], DKreus

NASA's newest space telescope project … sustain a megaproject over a long period."

Webb k2 exoplanet research
Coulter, 10 [Dauna Coulter is a Science Writer at Schafer Corporation for NASA, Senior Technical Writer at ADTRAN Senior Technical Writer at Lockheed Martin Technical Editor/Writer at Teledyne Brown Engineering. “Alien Planet Safari”, January 14th, 2010, [[http://nasascience.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/14jan_planetsafari/]] ]
The premiere observatory of the … wonders Webb's hunt will turn up."

K2 space colonization
Harrold, 08 – staff writer for the Gazette [July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis]

With less fanfare than H.G. Wells's … said it's okay to look."

Extinction’s inevitable on earth – colonization’s key to survival.

Matheny 07 (Jason G., Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University, 12/7, Risk Analysis, Vol 27, Iss 5, pg 1336, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction” Wiley Online Library) SE

We have some influence over … infinite hope, but not for us.”


Scenario 2 is Earth Sciences:
NASA credibility is key to effective Earth sciences - solves multiple scenarios for environmental destruction and extinction - specifically ozone destruction, air pollution, and ocean destruction
Killeen 5 (Timothy L., Director – National Center for Atmospheric Research, “NASA Earth Science”, CQ Congressional Testimony, 4-28, Lexis)
It is clear after decades … ecosystems to simultaneous multiple stresses.

Ozone depletion causes extinction
Smith and Daniel ’99, (Tyrrel W. Smith, Jr., Ph.D. TRW Space & Electronics Group and John R. Edwards Daniel Pilson Environmental Management Branch “Summary of the Impact of Launch Vehicle Exhaust and Deorbiting Space and Meteorite Debris on Stratospheric Ozone” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA414306]]) The ozone layer is critical … also may occur (Martin [1998], WMO [1998]).

Air pollution causes extinction
Driesen ’03, David, Professor of Law at Syracuse, Fall/Spring 2003, Buffalo Environmental Law Journal, Lexis Nexis
Air pollution can make … both of these concerns. n5

Ocean destruction causes extinction
Craig, 2003 [Robin Kundis, Associate Prof Law, Indiana U School Law, Lexis] Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments … most of the biosphere with us.



==UGA 1AC== 
===China De-Dev Advantage=== 
War with China inevitable now – Chinese growth, national pride, and an emboldened PLA make miscalc inevitable – tempering Chinese leadership and economic growth is k2 avert conflict
Carr ’10, (Edward, foreign affairs editor at The Economist Magazine, 12-2-10, “Less biding and hiding”, acclaimed public policy expert, Cambridge University Graduate, [[http://www.economist.com/node/17601475?story_id=17601475]], DKreus)
There are two possible reasons. … offensive has not altogether worked.

Extinction
The Straits Times, 6/25/2000 (Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan, p. lexis)
THE high-intensity scenario postulates a … see the destruction of civilisation.

And, Chinese growth spurs military modernization
Perkins ’06 (Dwight Perkins "Military Modernization in an Era of Uncertainty", [[http://www.nbr.org/publications/strategic_asia/pdf/Preview/SA05/SA05_ChinaBudget_preview.pdf]], DKreus
If China does manage to … stability in Asia more broadly.

That includes nano-weapons development
Navrozov ’07 [Lev, the winner of the Albert Einstein Prize for outstanding intellectual achievements, and more than twenty of his articles are in the United States Congressional Record. He is also president of the nonprofit Center for the Survival of Western Democracies, “Nanotech and Sun Tzu: China's secret weapons?”, Sept 3, [[http://www.worldtribune.com/worldtribune/WTARC/2007/lev8_31.asp]], DKreus]
In 1945, the ultimate super weapon … , and govern a territory of a world.

That O/Ws everything
Treder and Phoenix, ’08, (Mike , Executive Director of CRN, BS Biology, University of Washington, Research Fellow with the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies, a consultant to the Millennium Project of the American Council for the United Nations University AND Chris Phoenix, CRN’s Director of Research, has studied nanotechnology for more than 15 years. BS, Symbolic Systems, MS, Computer Science, Stanford University. Center For Responsible Nanotechnology, “Dangers of Molecular Manufacturing,” Last Updated Feb 7, [[http://www.crnano.org/dangers.htm]], DKreus)
Nanotech weapons would be extremely … -disruptive economic solution can develop.

China is investing in SPS development now – that’s crucial to the Chinese economy and Chinese national power – US development of SPS eviscerates it all
Stone ’11 (Christopher, (B.A., M.A.) is a space policy analyst and strategist near Washington DC, The Space Review, 10/3/2011“National Space Strategy: proactive or reactive?”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1938/1]]) Recently, the Chinese have committed … influence abroad and at home.

Specifically, China winning the race to SPS is k2 its economy
Pillai and Prakash ’11, [Dr. Rajeswari Pillai Rajagopalan is a Senior Fellow AND Rahul Prakash a Research Assistant at Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi, 9/21/11 “China Walks the US-India Space Solar Power Dream”, [[http://www.orfonline.org/cms/sites/orfonline/modules/analysis/AnalysisDetail.html?cmaid=25917&mmacmaid=25918]]]
While China may not have … and strategic gains for China.

No CCP good offense—growth causes rebellion
Yao ’10 ( Yang, is a Adjunct Professor of East Asian Studies B.S. of Geography, Beijing University, 1986 M.S. of Economics, Beijing University, 1989 Ph.D “The End of the Beijing Consensus” [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/65947/the-end-of-the-beijing-consensus?page=show]] //Donnie)
China's astronomic growth has left … growth and maintain social stability.

No economic collapse bad offense – … manage a soft landing without SPS The Diplomat ’12, “China set for Goldilocks landing?”, 1/23/12, [[http://the-diplomat.com/2012/01/23/china-set-for-goldilocks-landing/]], DKreus
Latest GDP growth data released … up 18.1 percent on a year earlier.
==Wake Forest 1AC== 
===Warming=== 
Warming is real and anthropogenic - most recent studies
Environmental Defense Fund '09, "Global Warming Myths and Facts",
[[http://mrgreenbiz.wordpress.com/2009/01/13/global-warming-myths-and-facts-2/]]

There is no debate among scientists about the basic facts... identify the most likely range for future climatic change.

Their authors lie – our models are accurate – they’re backed up by tests
Robert Hunter, cofounder of Greenpeace and a Canadian environmentalist, journalist, author and politician, 2003, “Thermageddon: Countdown to 2030”, pg. 76-77

At any point in history prior to the development ... other scientists and experts before it saw print.

Global warming causes extinction – only SPS can solve
Hsu, 10, Dr. Feng Hsu, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, former GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, Sr. Vice President, Systems Engineering, & Risk Management Space Energy Group, Winter 2010, Online Journal of Space Communication, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” ([[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]])

It has become increasingly evident that facing and solving the multiple issues... way that has a chance to make a difference.

And, we’re nearing the point of no return—holding the line on current emissions while transitioning to solar power key to check feedback cycles
Biello 10 (David Biello, award winning journalist and associate editor for Scientific American, 9/9/10, Scientific American, “How Much Global Warming Is Guaranteed Even If We Stopped Building Coal-Fired Plants Today?”, [[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=guaranteed-global-warming-with-existing-fossil-fuel-infrastructure]])

Humanity has yet to reach the point of no return when ... deployment of carbon-free sources of energy, perhaps 30 [terawatts] by 2050."

SPS is better than all other alternatives- it makes economic sense while being completely safe while solving oil dependence
Globus 07 (Al Globus, serves on the National Space Society Board of Directors and is a senior research associate for Human Factors Research and Technology at San Jose State University at NASA Ames Research Center, May 2007, [[http://www.space.com/3812-solar-power-space-strategy-america-world.html]])

Suppose I told you that we could build an energy source ... expensive, but it's a better, cheaper, safer strategy than military control of oil in far flung lands.



===Deterrence=== 
We isolate 3 internal links
First is Aerospace dominance—
Uncertain Space Policy is Crippling the Aerospace Industry- Government action is key
Maser ’11, [Jim, Chair of the Corporate Membership Committee – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and President – Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, “A Review of NASA’s Exploration Program in Transition: Issues for Congress and Industry”, U.S. House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Hearing, 3-30, [[http://www.prattwhitney.com/media_center/executive_speeches/jim_maser_03-30-2011.asp]]]

Access to space plays a significant part in the Department of Defense’s ... But the clock is ticking.

Infrastructure and tech advances of SPS provide a framework to ensure the US remains the aerospace leader
NSSO ’07, National Security Space Office, October 10,2007, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]], “Space Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, pg 15, 16. DKreus

FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that SBSP offers a path to... would be a powerful expression of this imperative.

Independently, that’s key to hard power
Walker et al, ’02, - Robert Walker, Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, November 2002, [[http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf]], DKreus)

Defending our nation against its enemies is the first and fundamental... as the world’s preeminent military power.

Second is DoD standardization
DoD involvement is vital to standardization in the private sector
Aerospace Industries ’05, Aerospace Industries Association of America, Inc. [“The future of aerospace standardization,” [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/library/reports/aerospace_standardization0105.pdf]]]

“The DoD is committed to increased defense ... DoD interests in industry standardization activities.

Standards in the aerospace industry are necessary to retain technological dominance.
Aerospace Industries ’05, Aerospace Industries Association of America, Inc. [“The future of aerospace standardization,” [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/library/reports/aerospace_standardization0105.pdf]]]

Aerospace has been at the center of America’s technological leadership ... most powerful mechanisms for propagating change.

Aerospace tech decline directly facilitates the emergence of hostile global rivals
Snead, ’07, - Mike Snead, Aerospace engineer and consultant focusing on Near-future space infrastructure development ,6/3/2007, “How America Can and Why America Must Now Become a True Spacefaring Nation,” Spacefaring America Blog, , [[http://spacefaringamerica.net/2007/06/03/6--why-the-next-president-should-start-america-on-the-path-to-becoming-a-true-spacefaring-nation.aspx]]

Great power status is achieved through competition between... administration should exercise.

Third is forward deployment
SPS is key to forward deployment and eliminates supply lines
Dinerman '08, Taylor Dinerman, senior editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York branch and co-author of the forthcoming Towards a Theory of Spacepower: Selected Essays, from National Defense University Press, 11/24/2008, “Space solar power and the Khyber Pass”, The Space Review, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1255/1]]

Last year the National Security Space Office released ... have helped them adapt to the modern world.

That solves conventional deterrence
Wald and Captain ’09 [ General Charles F. Wald (USAF Ret) Director and Senior Advisor, Aerospace & Defense Industry, Tom Captain Vice Chairman, Global and U.S. Aerospace & Defense Industry Leader, “ Energy Security America’s Best Defense” 2009, [[http://www.deloitte.com/assets/Dcom-UnitedStates/Local%20Assets/Documents/AD/us_ad_EnergySecurity052010.pdf]], Caplan]

Energy security and national security are closely interrelated...positioned to accelerate the development and deployment of such technologies.

Independently, that’s key to deter conflict
Gerson, ’09 – Michael S. Gerson, Research analyst @ Center for Naval Analyses, a federally funded research center, where he focuses on deterrence, nuclear strategy, counterproliferation, and arms control, Autumn 2009, “Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age,” Parameters

Conventional deterrence also plays an important role in preventing nonnuclear aggression ... provides opportunities for conventional aggression and coercion.

It’s not about the size of our military lead, but how we use it. A weakened American military invites counter-balancing and aggressive enemies
Spencer, 9/15/2000 (Jack - policy analyst for defense and national security at the Heritage Foundation, The Facts About Military Readiness, p. [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2000/09/BG1394-The-Facts-About-Military-Readiness]])

U.S. military readiness cannot be gauged by comparing ...regions of vital national interest, thereby preserving peace.

Now our impacts: US leadership is crucial to global peace and preventing multiple nuclear wars
Kagan ’11 (The Price of Power The benefits of U.S. defense spending far outweigh the costs Jan 24, 2011, Vol. 16, No. 18 • By ROBERT KAGAN Robert Kagan is a contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution.

Today the international situation is also one of... out from under a table and the table will not fall over.

Perception of American strength is critical to prevent aggressive nuclearization strategies that result in first-strikes and nuclear war
Talent and Hall, March 2010 (Jim - distinguished fellow in government relations at the Heritage Foundation, and Heath, Sowing the Wind, p. [[http://www.freedomsolutions.org/2010/03/sowing-the-wind-the-decay-of-american-power-and-its-consequences/]])

There is a reason that regimes like Iran and North Korea go to the time and expense... power without having to develop their own deterrent capability.[42]

Russian and Chinese militarization is inevitable. A weakened American military invites those nations to engage in aggressive foreign policy
Talent and Hall, March 2010 (Jim - distinguished fellow in government relations at the Heritage Foundation, and Heath, Sowing the Wind, p. [[http://www.freedomsolutions.org/2010/03/sowing-the-wind-the-decay-of-american-power-and-its-consequences/]])

C. THE EMERGENCE OF RUSSIA AND CHINA AS REGIONAL SUPERPOWERS ... on their perception of the deterrent strength of the United States.

China perceives American weakness. This results in aggressive policies Glaser and Morris, 7/9/2009 (Bonnie - senior fellow with the CSIS Freeman Chair in China Studies, and Lyle, Chinese Perceptions of U.S. Decline and Power, China Brief Vol. 9 Iss. 14, p. [[http://www.jamestown.org/programs/chinabrief/single/?tx_ttnews[tt_news]=35241&cHash=db9748f805]])

Chinese perceptions of American power are consequential... stage in ways that may be inconsistent with American interests.

Perceived weakness controls how China evaluates U.S. deterrence
Christensen, Spring 2001 (Thomas – professor of politics at Princeton, Posing problems without catching up, International Security, p. ebscohost)

On the active defense side, it appears that China is...only from defeat but also from significant harm.


US/China war results in extinction
The Straits Times, 6/25/2000 (Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan, p. lexis)

===Solvency=== 
Solar Power Satellites are cheap, feasible, and could be produced by 2020
Lior 11, Noam Lior, University of Pennsylvania, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, Philadelphia, PA, April 2011 “Solar orbital power: Sustainability analysis”, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544210005931]], Date accessed June 24, 2011

We have analyzed some economic, environmental and social aspects ... power an important alternative to other sustainable energy sources.

And, SPS is feasible – new solar panel tech solves concerns
NSS ’11, National Space Society, July 13, 2011, [[http://www.nss.org/]] , accessed July 18, 2011, DKreus

According to National Space Society Director Al Globus, the development ... appears that 1,380 w/kg can be achieved in a reasonable time scale.

Wireless power transmission works – no risk of inefficiency
Matai ‘10, DK Matai, chairman of Holistic Quantum Relativity Socratic Dialogue, chairman of the Philanthropia, chairman of the Asymmetric Threats Contingency Alliance (ATCA), global head of innovation, chief software architect, and CEO at mi2g (global Information Technology and Services company), expert on energy production and engineering, PhD in high performance computing from Imperial College London, 6-13-10, “Japan Takes Lead In Wireless Power? 21stC Global Energy Supply”, [[http://www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/frameset.php?pageid=http%3A//www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/press/130610.php]], DKreus

Reducing Losses via WPT One of the major ... recent focus on budget deficit reductions.

Demonstration solves – it catalyzes the private sector
Shea '10, Karen Cramer Shea, Research and Technology Directorate NASA Langley Research Center, Attendee of the International Space University Summer Session, Winter 2010, Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power Satellites, “Why Has SPS R&D Received So Little Funding?,” , ([[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html]])

Space solar power technology is still in its infancy because ... dollars a year abroad to insure that our energy needs are met.
==John's Creek 1AC (FULL TEXT)== 
===Warming=== 
Advantage 1 is Warming:
It’s try or die – 2012 is the deadline for us to get the only energy option off the ground
Schubert ’10, Peter J. Schubert, PhD in electrical and computer engineering from Purdue University, holds 30 US patents, 8 foreign patents, and has published over 60 technical papers and book chapters, 12-2010, “Costs, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP,” Online Journal of Space Communication, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html]]

The Energy Information Agency (EIA) of the US predicts that in the time between 2004 and 2030 the world's energy demand will almost double. An extra 8,500 GW of installed capacity is needed to meet the growing energy needs of an increasingly affluent and industrialized world. This amounts to 328 GW per year of installed baseload power generation. A typical terrestrial "mega-nuclear" plant having multiple reactors produces from 5 to 8 GW, takes 8 years to build, and costs 25 billion USD, or about 3.85 USD/watt. Worldwide, the translates into 1.25 trillion USD each year on power generation facilities. Renewable energy sources, such as hydroelectric, wind, biomass, geothermal, and solar (passive, concentrated, and photovoltaic) are limited, according to the EIA. Even if fully utilitized and cost-effective, these sources are barely capable of meeting energy needs in 2030, but inadequate to meet the projected needs in 2050. Therefore, SSP needs to become a large and growing segment of mankind's power needs by no later than 2030. The Manhattan Project took 6 years, and the first nuclear reactor came 9 years later. The Apollo project also took 6 years, and routine space travel via the STS began 12 years after that. Thus, the latest date at which SSP work must be started is 2012.

Consensus there is rapid anthropogenic warming now – numerous and best studies prove
Environmental Defense Fund, a US-based nonprofit environmental advocacy group, “Global Warming Myths and Facts,” 1/13/2009, [[http://mrgreenbiz.wordpress.com/2009/01/13/global-warming-myths-and-facts-2/There|http://mrgreenbiz.wordpress.com/2009/01/13/global-warming-myths-and-facts-2/]]

There is no debate among scientists about the basic facts of global warming. The most respected scientific bodies have stated unequivocally that global warming is occurring, and people are causing it by burning fossil fuels (like coal, oil and natural gas) and cutting down forests. The U.S. National Academy of Sciences, which in 2005 the White House called "the gold standard of objective scientific assessment," issued a joint statement with 10 other National Academies of Science saying "the scientific understanding of climate change is now sufficiently clear to justify nations taking prompt action. It is vital that all nations identify cost-effective steps that they can take now, to contribute to substantial and long-term reduction in net global greenhouse gas emissions." (Joint Statement of Science Academies: Global Response to Climate Change [PDF], 2005) The only debate in the science community about global warming is about how much and how fast warming will continue as a result of heat-trapping emissions. Scientists have given a clear warning about global warming, and we have more than enough facts — about causes and fixes — to implement solutions right now. MYTH Even if global warming is a problem, addressing it will hurt American industry and workers. FACT A well designed trading program will harness American ingenuity to decrease heat-trapping pollution cost-effectively, jumpstarting a new carbon economy. Claims that fighting global warming will cripple the economy and cost hundreds of thousands of jobs are unfounded. In fact, companies that are already reducing their heat-trapping emissions have discovered that cutting pollution can save money. The cost of a comprehensive national greenhouse gas reduction program will depend on the precise emissions targets, the timing for the reductions and the means of implementation. An independent MIT study found that a modest cap-and-trade system would cost less than $20 per household annually and have no negative impact on employment. Experience has shown that properly designed emissions trading programs can reduce compliance costs significantly compared with other regulatory approaches. For example, the U.S. acid rain program reduced sulfur dioxide emissions by more than 30 percent from 1990 levels and cost industry a fraction of what the government originally estimated, according to EPA. Furthermore, a mandatory cap on emissions could spur technological innovation that could create jobs and wealth. Letting global warming continue until we are forced to address it on an emergency basis could disrupt and severely damage our economy. It is far wiser and more cost-effective to act now. MYTH Water vapor is the most important, abundant greenhouse gas. So if we’re going to control a greenhouse gas, why don’t we control it instead of carbon dioxide (CO2)? FACT Although water vapor traps more heat than CO2, because of the relationships among CO2, water vapor and climate, to fight global warming nations must focus on controlling CO2. Atmospheric levels of CO2 are determined by how much coal, natural gas and oil we burn and how many trees we cut down, as well as by natural processes like plant growth. Atmospheric levels of water vapor, on the other hand, cannot be directly controlled by people; rather, they are determined by temperatures. The warmer the atmosphere, the more water vapor it can hold. As a result, water vapor is part of an amplifying effect. Greenhouse gases like CO2 warm the air, which in turn adds to the stock of water vapor, which in turn traps more heat and accelerates warming. Scientists know this because of satellite measurements documenting a rise in water vapor concentrations as the globe has warmed. The best way to lower temperature and thus reduce water vapor levels is to reduce CO2 emissions. MYTH Global warming and extra CO2 will actually be beneficial — they reduce cold-related deaths and stimulate crop growth. FACT Any beneficial effects will be far outweighed by damage and disruption. Even a warming in just the middle range of scientific projections would have devastating impacts on many sectors of the economy. Rising seas would inundate coastal communities, contaminate water supplies with salt and increase the risk of flooding by storm surge, affecting tens of millions of people globally. Moreover, extreme weather events, including heat waves, droughts and floods, are predicted to increase in frequency and intensity, causing loss of lives and property and throwing agriculture into turmoil. Even though higher levels of CO2 can act as a plant fertilizer under some conditions, scientists now think that the "CO2 fertilization" effect on crops has been overstated; in natural ecosystems, the fertilization effect can diminish after a few years as plants acclimate. Furthermore, increased CO2 may benefit undesirable, weedy species more than desirable species. Higher levels of CO2 have already caused ocean acidification, and scientists are warning of potentially devastating effects on marine life and fisheries. Moreover, higher levels of regional ozone (smog), a result of warmer temperatures, could worsen respiratory illnesses. Less developed countries and natural ecosystems may not have the capacity to adapt. The notion that there will be regional “winners” and “losers” in global warming is based on a world-view from the 1950’s. We live in a global community. Never mind the moral implications — when an environmental catastrophe creates millions of refugees half-way around the world, Americans are affected. MYTH Global warming is just part of a natural cycle. The Arctic has warmed up in the past. FACT The global warming we are experiencing is not natural. People are causing it. People are causing global warming by burning fossil fuels (like oil, coal and natural gas) and cutting down forests. Scientists have shown that these activities are pumping far more CO2 into the atmosphere than was ever released in hundreds of thousands of years. This buildup of CO2 is the biggest cause of global warming. Since 1895, scientists have known that CO2 and other greenhouse gases trap heat and warm the earth. As the warming has intensified over the past three decades, scientific scrutiny has increased along with it. Scientists have considered and ruled out other, natural explanations such as sunlight, volcanic eruptions and cosmic rays. (IPCC 2001) Though natural amounts of CO2 have varied from 180 to 300 parts per million (ppm), today's CO2 levels are around 380 ppm. That's 25% more than the highest natural levels over the past 650,000 years. Increased CO2 levels have contributed to periods of higher average temperatures throughout that long record. (Boden, Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center) As for previous Arctic warming, it is true that there were stretches of warm periods over the Arctic earlier in the 20th century. The limited records available for that time period indicate that the warmth did not affect as many areas or persist from year to year as much as the current warmth. But that episode, however warm it was, is not relevant to the issue at hand. Why? For one, a brief regional trend does not discount a longer global phenomenon. We know that the planet has been warming over the past several decades and Arctic ice has been melting persistently. And unlike the earlier periods of Arctic warmth, there is no expectation that the current upward trend in Arctic temperatures will reverse; the rising concentrations of greenhouse gases will prevent that from happening. MYTH We can adapt to climate change — civilization has survived droughts and temperature shifts before. FACT Although humans as a whole have survived the vagaries of drought, stretches of warmth and cold and more, entire societies have collapsed from dramatic climatic shifts. The current warming of our climate will bring major hardships and economic dislocations — untold human suffering, especially for our children and grandchildren. We are already seeing significant costs from today's global warming which is caused by greenhouse gas pollution. Climate has changed in the past and human societies have survived, but today six billion people depend on interconnected ecosystems and complex technological infrastructure. What's more, unless we limit the amount of heat-trapping gases we are putting into the atmosphere, we will face a warming trend unseen since human civilization began 10,000 years ago. (IPCC 2001) The consequences of continued warming at current rates are likely to be dire. Many densely populated areas, such as low-lying coastal regions, are highly vulnerable to climate shifts. A middle-of-the-range projection is that the homes of 13 to 88 million people around the world would be flooded by the sea each year in the 2080s. Poorer countries and small island nations will have the hardest time adapting. (McLean et al. 2001) In what appears to be the first forced move resulting from climate change, 100 residents of Tegua island in the Pacific Ocean were evacuated by the government because rising sea levels were flooding their island. Some 2,000 other islanders plan a similar move to escape rising waters. In the United States, the village of Shishmaref in Alaska, which has been inhabited for 400 years, is collapsing from melting permafrost. Relocation plans are in the works. Scarcity of water and food could lead to major conflicts with broad ripple effects throughout the globe. Even if people find a way to adapt, the wildlife and plants on which we depend may be unable to adapt to rapid climate change. While the world itself will not end, the world as we know it may disappear. MYTH Recent cold winters and cool summers don’t feel like global warming to me. FACT While different pockets of the country have experienced some cold winters here and there, the overall trend is warmer winters. Measurements show that over the last century the Earth’s climate has warmed overall, in all seasons, and in most regions. Climate skeptics mislead the public when they claim that the winter of 2003–2004 was the coldest ever in the northeastern United States. That winter was only the 33rd coldest in the region since records began in 1896. Furthermore, a single year of cold weather in one region of the globe is not an indication of a trend in the global climate, which refers to a long-term average over the entire planet. MYTH Global warming can’t be happening because some glaciers and ice sheets are growing, not shrinking. FACT In most parts of the world, the retreat of glaciers has been dramatic. The best available scientific data indicate that Greenland's massive ice sheet is shrinking. Between 1961 and 1997, the world’s glaciers lost 890 cubic miles of ice. The consensus among scientists is that rising air temperatures are the most important factor behind the retreat of glaciers on a global scale over long time periods. Some glaciers in western Norway, Iceland and New Zealand have been expanding during the past few decades. That expansion is a result of regional increases in storm frequency and snowfall rather than colder temperatures — not at all incompatible with a global warming trend. In Greenland, a NASA satellite that can measure the ice mass over the whole continent has found that although there is variation from month to month, over the longer term, the ice is disappearing. In fact, there are worrisome signs that melting is accelerating: glaciers are moving into the ocean twice as fast as a decade ago, and, over time, more and more glaciers have started to accelerate. What is most alarming is the prediction, based on model calculations and historical evidence, that an approximately 5.4 degree Fahrenheit increase in local Greenland temperatures will lead to irreversible meltdown and a sea-level rise of over 20 feet. Since the Arctic is warming 2-3 times faster than the global average, this tipping point is not far away. The only study that has shown increasing ice mass in Greenland only looked at the interior of the ice sheet, not at the edges where melting occurs. This is actually in line with climate model predictions that global warming would lead to a short-term accumulation of ice in the cold interior due to heavier snowfall. (Similarly, scientists have predicted that Antarctica overall will gain ice in the near future due to heavier snowfall.) The scientists who published the study were careful to point out that their results should not be used to conclude that Greenland's ice mass as a whole is growing. In addition, their data suggested that the accumulation of snow in the middle of the continent is likely to decrease over time as global warming continues. MYTH Accurate weather predictions a few days in advance are hard to come by. Why on earth should we have confidence in climate projections decades from now? FACT Climate prediction is fundamentally different from weather prediction, just as climate is different from weather. It is often more difficult to make an accurate weather forecast than a climate prediction. The accuracy of weather forecasting is critically dependent upon being able to exactly and comprehensively characterize the present state of the global atmosphere. Climate prediction relies on other, longer ranging factors. For instance, we might not know if it will be below freezing on a specific December day in New England, but we know from our understanding of the region's climate that the temperatures during the month will generally be low. Similarly, climate tells us that Seattle and London tend to be rainy, Florida and southern California are usually warm, and the Southwest is often dry and hot. Today’s climate models can now reproduce the observed global average climates over the past century and beyond. Such findings have reinforced scientist’s confidence in the capacity of models to produce reliable projections of future climate. Current climate assessments typically consider the results from a range of models and scenarios for future heat-trapping emissions in order to identify the most likely range for future climatic change.

Their authors lie – our models are accurate – they’re backed up by tests
Robert Hunter, cofounder of Greenpeace and a Canadian environmentalist, journalist, author and politician, 2003, “Thermageddon: Countdown to 2030”, pg. 76-77

At any point in history prior to the development of super-computers, the UN might as well have turned to witch doctors dancing around a fire, rattling bones. The art of predicting the future, however, has taken a quantum leap since the Second World War, and for the first time in history it is possible for scientists to deliver, if not absolute certainties, probabilities that are in the range of 95 percent or better. The most sophisticated tools of all are the three-dimensional General Circulation Models (GCMs), which use thousands of mathematical equations to represent the physical laws of nature that govern the interactions between the various components of the climate systems, such as oceans, atmosphere, ice, snow, albedo, carbon sinks, seasonal temperature cycles, humidity, precipitation, cloud cover, wind speeds, geographical variations, etc. These models allow scientists to create a “virtual Earth,” complete with all the major features of the current climate, which can then be run forward to see how climate evolves in a theoretically endless number of scenarios. And they are not untested, as critics like to claim. GCMs have proven their reliability by correctly predicting the cooling caused by the eruption of Mount Pinatubo, for instance. Models also anticipated the delayed response of plant life to warming and cooling episodes caused by El Nino. By way of testing their veracity, scientists have run the best of these models backwards and correctly replicated the climatic changes caused in the past by natural greenhouse-gas concentrations. In other words, the things have been test-driven. They work – although of course they remain limited by the amount of information we can put into them. Here again, humanity lucked out. What the IPCC had going for it was a combination of calculating power and accumulated data that was unprecedented. And these were just the tools and the raw material. Some two thousand scientists were brought together for the ﬁrst of dozens of conferences. Every word they wrote, every data-point they entered, every algorithm, every data-point they entered, every algorithm they used was peer-reviewed, meaning that each paper submitted for inclusion in the IPCC’s work was picked at mercilessly by other scientists and experts before it saw print.

Only the plan can solve for several reasons
1) A large US investment in SSP turns the US into a net energy exporter – that’s key to energy leadership Chapman et al ’11 – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program, Phil, March, 2011, [[http://solarhigh.org/Overview.htmlThe|http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html]]

The expected cost of deploying SBSP is ~$7,400/kW, including the rectenna as well as construction and launch of Block II satellites. Amortized over an expected life of 30 years at a discount rate of 5%, the contribution of this capital cost to the delivered cost of electric energy would be 5.6 cents/kWh. SBSP is thus much more promising than terrestrial solar as a replacement for fossil fuels or nuclear power. A strong US commitment to SBSP could •Solve the energy problem permanently, in the USA and around the world. •Offer clean, inexhaustible solar power almost anywhere on Earth. •Restore the status of the United States as an energy-exporting nation. •Create large international markets for export of our technology as well as energy. •Offer greatly reduced launch costs to all users of space, including the DoD, NASA and commercial interests. •Restore US preeminence in launch services. •Permit explosive growth in extraterrestrial enterprises. •Open the solar system as the domain of our species, eliminating most concerns about resource exhaustion. Serious studies of SBSP are under way in several countries, including Japan, China, India and the European Union. Continued US neglect of this vital technology means that we will not only suffer all the economic, political and strategic consequences of abdicating our leadership in space but also abandon control of our energy future. What we do about these issues in the next few years will determine whether we will restore American initiative or become a debt-ridden, second-rate nation that must import electricity as well as petroleum.


That’s independently gets China and India on board
Shepard ’11 – Natural Resources/Water Resources University Laboratory Teacher & Former Financial Representative and Army National Guard Accountant (Don, Article updated 5/22/11 – originally written in 2010, "U.S. Environmental Policy and Leadership," [[http://www.brighthub.com/environment/science-environmental/articles/39623.aspx]]. RG)

The Bush administration’s failure to see the big picture in reference to global environmental change can clearly be seen in the resulting outcomes of his eight years as president. The withdrawal of the U.S. from the Kyoto treaty is both an important symbol of American isolationism from Europe and a direct link as to why the country (and perhaps the world as a whole) has not reduced greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants that affect the global environment. The Kyoto agreement is not without flaws but the unwillingness to negotiate, or inaction, was not conducive to a good outcome for the global environment. "Greenhouse" Gases According to the Energy Information Administration (EIA) the United States greenhouse gas emissions went up by 1.4% in 2007. An article in the LA times states carbon dioxide emissions rose by nearly 2.0% in the U.S. in 2007 while Denmark’s went down by 8%, the U.K. and Germany 3%, and France and Australia 2%. Granted, this is only a single year, but considering the breadth of the consequences and that Bush had been in office since 2000, these numbers sum up rather well the effect of his administration on global environmental change. Bush Environmental Policies Overturned The ironic nature of the Bush administration’s response to environmental change is that the best aspect of it is reflected in policy’s that did not take effect. The administration made a habit of changing environmental regulations, many of which have been overturned by the Supreme Court. It's a tribute to our system that these efforts were not allowed to come to fruition. An example is the blocking of “changes to the rules that govern what kind of logging, mining or other activities can be allowed in national forests.” (Shogren, 2007) Carol Browner, head of the EPA in the Clinton administration and Obama energy “czarina”, is quoted as saying: "As dreadful as the Bush administration has been with respect to clean air and forests and all these environmental issues, the courts have been really our savior. And have time and time again in the last years [it has] stepped in." (Shogren, 2007) Another example of Bush environmental policy being thwarted is President Obama’s retracting of regulations inserted by Bush before he left office. One such regulation “would have opened 2 million acres of public land in Wyoming, Colorado, and Utah for oil-shale drilling.” (O'Carroll, 2009) Environment vs. Economy It appears that Bush was mired in the old ways of pitting the environment against the economy. In an April 2008 speech Bush states “The Kyoto Protocol would have required the United States to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The impact of this agreement, however, would have been to limit our economic growth…” (The White House Office of the Press Secretary, 2008) I maintain that this did not have to be, and that Obama has offered a glaring contrast to this outdated thinking. Obama campaigned on stimulating the economy in part by creating “green” jobs and fostering energy efficiency that will both save money and reduce fossil fuel use. Moving Forward There are numerous goals and programs of the new administration that were never considered by the Bush administration. These include a national Renewable Portfolio Standard, proposing a carbon cap and trade system, and already making it so states such as California can pass their own automobile fuel mileage standards that will likely be followed by other states. One of the biggest and perhaps controversial measures thus far is the April Environmental Protection Agency ruling making carbon dioxide a pollutant. A fairly novel idea being studied is to provide incentives for land owners (and money for planting in government owned forest land) to plant trees that can provide sinks for carbon. This is being carried out by a new department called the Office of Ecosystem Services and Markets. (Wilkinson, 2009) Will Obama Meet New Standards? Even with these goals and very early achievements it is unclear if the overall “political will”, no matter how different from the last eight years, is sufficient to tackle the challenges of global environmental change, particularly when the will of the presidential administration may not be enough. There are many representatives who do not share Obama’s enthusiasm for environmental issues. As pointed out previously, there have already been compromises made that have decreased funding for environmental initiatives. The American people can help by not letting the environmental agenda once again take a back seat, though only time will tell just how strong the will and influence of the Obama administration is. Opportunity for Leadership in Copenhagen The U.S. is the world superpower. I argue that the latest world economic troubles only serve to accentuate the extent to which this is true, as economies of the world are suffering due to the domino effect triggered by the collapse of the U.S. housing market. The Kyoto treaty was only a piece of paper without the U.S. on board. The other major polluting nations such as China and India will not take the problem of global environmental change seriously until America does. Copenhagen is a chance to right the ship before it is too late. Our nation is just as capable of steering the ship in the right direction as it is in the wrong direction. This means allowing Earth to take the helm, and remembering humanity adapts to her, not her to humanity. Update: Copenhagen; What happened? Dissapointment seems to be the predominant reaction from environmental organizations to the Copenhagen Climate Summit. Indeed, no binding agreement, or even a pledge to make a binding agreement in 2010 was achieved. This was not, however, the true test of the Obama administration's environmental policy. The real test is whether Obama can get a legitimate climate bill through the Senate. U.S. environmental leadership can still be the beacon it needs to be with a strong message from our lawmakers.

2) It will reduce emissions
Hempsell ’05, Mark Hempsell, Senior Lecturer in Astronautics at the University of Bristol in England, 6-14-2005, “Space Power as a Response to Global Catastrophe,” [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleURL&_udi=B6V1N-4K9C55C&_user=1458830&_rdoc=1&_fmt=&_orig=search&_sort=d&view=c&_acct=C000052790&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=1458830&md5=b7e3493d587e09f4d431ea9fd91d6522]])
In his seminal paper on Solar Power Satellites (SPSs), in which the “classic” space power concept was first technically outlined, Glasier (6) argued their role in overcoming many of the potential anthropogenic threats by removing human dependence on energy from the carbon cycle. Glasier's original argument was more centred on resource depletion limiting growth the more dominant concern of late 1960s environmental movement. Since then the dominant concerns have altered and global warming is now generally considered the most probable cause of global catastrophe in the 21st Century. If SPSs were used as the main energy generation system then the production of carbon dioxide would reduce to the extent anthropogenic warming would no longer be a major concern. This class of argument has been made by many others, for example, Erb (7) who compares all possible terrestrial energy sources and shows none can meet humanities projected energy requirements leaving space power as the only long term solution. It was represented in this context in the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro (8).

3) Only SPS can solve – it’s the most cost efficient, safe, and environmentally friendly option
National Space Society, 4-18-11, Space Solar Power, “Limitless clean energy from space,” ([[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/index.htm)The|http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/index.htm)]]

The United States and the world need to find new sources of clean energy. Space Solar Power gathers energy from sunlight in space and transmits it wirelessly to Earth. Space solar power can solve our energy and greenhouse gas emissions problems. Not just help, not just take a step in the right direction, but solve. Space solar power can provide large quantities of energy to each and every person on Earth with very little environmental impact. The solar energy available in space is literally billions of times greater than we use today. The lifetime of the sun is an estimated 4-5 billion years, making space solar power a truly long-term energy solution. As Earth receives only one part in 2.3 billion of the Sun's output, space solar power is by far the largest potential energy source available, dwarfing all others combined. Solar energy is routinely used on nearly all spacecraft today. This technology on a larger scale, combined with already demonstrated wireless power transmission (see 2-minute video of demo), can supply nearly all the electrical needs of our planet. Another need is to move away from fossil fuels for our transportation system. While electricity powers few vehicles today, hybrids will soon evolve into plug-in hybrids which can use electric energy from the grid. As batteries, super-capacitors, and fuel cells improve, the gasoline engine will gradually play a smaller and smaller role in transportation — but only if we can generate the enormous quantities of electrical energy we need. It doesn't help to remove fossil fuels from vehicles if you just turn around and use fossil fuels again to generate the electricity to power those vehicles. Space solar power can provide the needed clean power for any future electric transportation system. While all viable energy options should be pursued with vigor, space solar power has a number of substantial advantages over other energy sources. Advantages of Space Solar Power • Unlike oil, gas, ethanol, and coal plants, space solar power does not emit greenhouse gases. • Unlike coal and nuclear plants, space solar power does not compete for or depend upon increasingly scarce fresh water resources. • Unlike bio-ethanol or bio-diesel, space solar power does not compete for increasingly valuable farm land or depend on natural-gas-derived fertilizer. Food can continue to be a major export instead of a fuel provider. • Unlike nuclear power plants, space solar power will not produce hazardous waste, which needs to be stored and guarded for hundreds of years. • Unlike terrestrial solar and wind power plants, space solar power is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in huge quantities. It works regardless of cloud cover, daylight, or wind speed. • Unlike nuclear power plants, space solar power does not provide easy targets for terrorists. • Unlike coal and nuclear fuels, space solar power does not require environmentally problematic mining operations. • Space solar power will provide true energy independence for the nations that develop it, eliminating a major source of national competition for limited Earth-based energy resources. • Space solar power will not require dependence on unstable or hostile foreign oil providers to meet energy needs, enabling us to expend resources in other ways. • Space solar power can be exported to virtually any place in the world, and its energy can be converted for local needs — such as manufacture of methanol for use in places like rural India where there are no electric power grids. Space solar power can also be used for desalination of sea water. • Space solar power can take advantage of our current and historic investment in aerospace expertise to expand employment opportunities in solving the difficult problems of energy security and climate change. • Space solar power can provide a market large enough to develop the low-cost space transportation system that is required for its deployment. This, in turn, will also bring the resources of the solar system within economic reach. Disadvantages of Space Solar Power • High development cost. Yes, space solar power development costs will be very large, although much smaller than American military presence in the Persian Gulf or the costs of global warming, climate change, or carbon sequestration. The cost of space solar power development always needs to be compared to the cost of not developing space solar power. Requirements for Space Solar Power The technologies and infrastructure required to make space solar power feasible include: • Low-cost, environmentally-friendly launch vehicles. Current launch vehicles are too expensive, and at high launch rates may pose atmospheric pollution problems of their own. Cheaper, cleaner launch vehicles are needed. • Large scale in-orbit construction and operations. To gather massive quantities of energy, solar power satellites must be large, far larger than the International Space Station (ISS), the largest spacecraft built to date. Fortunately, solar power satellites will be simpler than the ISS as they will consist of many identical parts. • Power transmission. A relatively small effort is also necessary to assess how to best transmit power from satellites to the Earth’s surface with minimal environmental impact. All of these technologies are reasonably near-term and have multiple attractive approaches. However, a great deal of work is needed to bring them to practical fruition. In the longer term, with sufficient investments in space infrastructure, space solar power can be built from materials from space. The full environmental benefits of space solar power derive from doing most of the work outside of Earth's biosphere. With materials extraction from the Moon or near-Earth asteroids, and space-based manufacture of components, space solar power would have essentially zero terrestrial environmental impact. Only the energy receivers need be built on Earth. Space solar power can completely solve our energy problems long term. The sooner we start and the harder we work, the shorter "long term" will be.

Warming causes extinction -- scientific consensus it’s real and anthropogenic.
Morgan ’09[Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect]

As horrifying as the scenario of human extinction by sudden, fast-burning nuclear fire may seem, the one consolation is that this future can be avoided within a relatively short period of time if responsible world leaders change Cold War thinking to move away from aggressive wars over natural resources and towards the eventual dismantlement of most if not all nuclear weapons. On the other hand, another scenario of human extinction by fire is one that may not so easily be reversed within a short period of time because it is not a fast-burning fire; rather, a slow burning fire is gradually heating up the planet as industrial civilization progresses and develops globally. This gradual process and course is long-lasting; thus it cannot easily be changed, even if responsible world leaders change their thinking about ‘‘progress’’ and industrial development based on the burning of fossil fuels. The way that global warming will impact humanity in the future has often been depicted through the analogy of the proverbial frog in a pot of water who does not realize that the temperature of the water is gradually rising. Instead of trying to escape, the frog tries to adjust to the gradual temperature change; finally, the heat of the water sneaks up on it until it is debilitated. Though it finally realizes its predicament and attempts to escape, it is too late; its feeble attempt is to no avail— and the frog dies. Whether this fable can actually be applied to frogs in heated water or not is irrelevant; it still serves as a comparable scenario of how the slow burning fire of global warming may eventually lead to a runaway condition and take humanity by surprise. Unfortunately, by the time the politicians finally all agree with the scientific consensus that global warming is indeed human caused, its development could be too advanced to arrest; the poor frog has become too weak and enfeebled to get himself out of hot water. The Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change (IPCC) was established in 1988 by the WorldMeteorological Organization (WMO) and the United Nations Environmental Programme to ‘‘assess on a comprehensive, objective, open and transparent basis the scientific, technical and socio-economic information relevant to understanding the scientific basis of risk of humaninduced climate change, its potential impacts and options for adaptation and mitigation.’’[16]. Since then, it has given assessments and reports every six or seven years. Thus far, it has given four assessments.13 With all prior assessments came attacks fromsome parts of the scientific community, especially by industry scientists, to attempt to prove that the theory had no basis in planetary history and present-day reality; nevertheless, as more andmore research continually provided concrete and empirical evidence to confirm the global warming hypothesis, that it is indeed human-caused, mostly due to the burning of fossil fuels, the scientific consensus grew stronger that human induced global warming is verifiable. As a matter of fact, according to Bill McKibben [17], 12 years of ‘‘impressive scientific research’’ strongly confirms the 1995 report ‘‘that humans had grown so large in numbers and especially in appetite for energy that they were now damaging the most basic of the earth’s systems—the balance between incoming and outgoing solar energy’’; ‘‘. . . their findings have essentially been complementary to the 1995 report – a constant strengthening of the simple basic truth that humans were burning too much fossil fuel.’’ [17]. Indeed, 12 years later, the 2007 report not only confirms global warming, with a stronger scientific consensus that the slow burn is ‘‘very likely’’ human caused, but it also finds that the ‘‘amount of carbon in the atmosphere is now increasing at a faster rate even than before’’ and the temperature increases would be ‘‘considerably higher than they have been so far were it not for the blanket of soot and other pollution that is temporarily helping to cool the planet.’’ [17]. Furthermore, almost ‘‘everything frozen on earth is melting. Heavy rainfalls are becoming more common since the air is warmer and therefore holds more water than cold air, and ‘cold days, cold nights and frost have become less frequent, while hot days, hot nights, and heat waves have become more frequent.’’ [17]. Unless drastic action is taken soon, the average global temperature is predicted to rise about 5 degrees this century, but it could rise as much as 8 degrees. As has already been evidenced in recent years, the rise in global temperature is melting the Arctic sheets. This runaway polar melting will inflict great damage upon coastal areas, which could be much greater than what has been previously forecasted. However, what is missing in the IPCC report, as dire as it may seem, is sufficient emphasis on the less likely but still plausible worst case scenarios, which could prove to have the most devastating, catastrophic consequences for the long-term future of human civilization. In other words, the IPCC report places too much emphasis on a linear progression that does not take sufficient account of the dynamics of systems theory, which leads to a fundamentally different premise regarding the relationship between industrial civilization and nature. As a matter of fact, as early as the 1950s, Hannah Arendt [18] observed this radical shift of emphasis in the human-nature relationship, which starkly contrasts with previous times because the very distinction between nature and man as ‘‘Homo faber’’ has become blurred, as man no longer merely takes from nature what is needed for fabrication; instead, he now acts into nature to augment and transform natural processes, which are then directed into the evolution of human civilization itself such that we become a part of the very processes that we make. The more human civilization becomes an integral part of this dynamic system, the more difficult it becomes to extricate ourselves from it. As Arendt pointed out, this dynamism is dangerous because of its unpredictability. Acting into nature to transform natural processes brings about an . . . endless new change of happenings whose eventual outcome the actor is entirely incapable of knowing or controlling beforehand. The moment we started natural processes of our own - and the splitting of the atom is precisely such a man-made natural process -we not only increased our power over nature, or became more aggressive in our dealings with the given forces of the earth, but for the first time have taken nature into the human world as such and obliterated the defensive boundaries between natural elements and the human artifice by which all previous civilizations were hedged in’’ [18]. So, in as much as we act into nature, we carry our own unpredictability into our world; thus, Nature can no longer be thought of as having absolute or iron-clad laws. We no longer know what the laws of nature are because the unpredictability of Nature increases in proportion to the degree by which industrial civilization injects its own processes into it; through selfcreated, dynamic, transformative processes, we carry human unpredictability into the future with a precarious recklessness that may indeed end in human catastrophe or extinction, for elemental forces that we have yet to understand may be unleashed upon us by the very environment that we experiment with. Nature may yet have her revenge and the last word, as the Earth and its delicate ecosystems, environment, and atmosphere reach a tipping point, which could turn out to be a point of no return. This is exactly the conclusion reached by the scientist, inventor, and author, James Lovelock. The creator of the wellknown yet controversial Gaia Theory, Lovelock has recently written that it may be already too late for humanity to change course since climate centers around the world, . . . which are the equivalent of the pathology lab of a hospital, have reported the Earth’s physical condition, and the climate specialists see it as seriously ill, and soon to pass into a morbid fever that may last as long as 100,000 years. I have to tell you, as members of the Earth’s family and an intimate part of it, that you and especially civilisation are in grave danger. It was ill luck that we started polluting at a time when the sun is too hot for comfort. We have given Gaia a fever and soon her condition will worsen to a state like a coma. She has been there before and recovered, but it took more than 100,000 years. We are responsible and will suffer the consequences: as the century progresses, the temperature will rise 8 degrees centigrade in temperate regions and 5 degrees in the tropics. Much of the tropical land mass will become scrub and desert, and will no longer serve for regulation; this adds to the 40 per cent of the Earth’s surface we have depleted to feed ourselves. . . Curiously, aerosol pollution of the northern hemisphere reduces global warming by reflecting sunlight back to space. This ‘global dimming’ is transient and could disappear in a few days like the smoke that it is, leaving us fully exposed to the heat of the global greenhouse. We are in a fool’s climate, accidentally kept cool by smoke, and before this century is over billions of us will die and the few breeding pairs of people that survive will be in the Arctic where the climate remains tolerable. [19] Moreover, Lovelock states that the task of trying to correct our course is hopelessly impossible, for we are not in charge. It is foolish and arrogant to think that we can regulate the atmosphere, oceans and land surface in order to maintain the conditions right for life. It is as impossible as trying to regulate your own temperature and the composition of your blood, for those with ‘‘failing kidneys know the never-ending daily difficulty of adjusting water, salt and protein intake. The technological fix of dialysis helps, but is no replacement for living healthy kidneys’’ [19]. Lovelock concludes his analysis on the fate of human civilization and Gaia by saying that we will do ‘‘our best to survive, but sadly I cannot see the United States or the emerging economies of China and India cutting back in time, and they are the main source of emissions. The worst will happen and survivors will have to adapt to a hell of a climate’’ [19]. Lovelock’s forecast for climate change is based on a systems dynamics analysis of the interaction between humancreated processes and natural processes. It is a multidimensional model that appropriately reflects the dynamism of industrial civilization responsible for climate change. For one thing, it takes into account positive feedback loops that lead to ‘‘runaway’’ conditions. This mode of analysis is consistent with recent research on how ecosystems suddenly disappear. A 2001 article in Nature, based on a scientific study by an international consortium, reported that changes in ecosystems are not just gradual but are often sudden and catastrophic [20]. Thus, a scientific consensus is emerging (after repeated studies of ecological change) that ‘‘stressed ecosystems, given the right nudge, are capable of slipping rapidly from a seemingly steady state to something entirely different,’’ according to Stephen Carpenter, a limnologist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison (who is also a co-author of the report). Carpenter continues, ‘‘We realize that there is a common pattern we’re seeing in ecosystems around the world, . . . Gradual changes in vulnerability accumulate and eventually you get a shock to the system - a flood or a drought - and, boom, you’re over into another regime. It becomes a self-sustaining collapse.’’ [20]. If ecosystems are in fact mini-models of the system of the Earth, as Lovelock maintains, then we can expect the same kind of behavior. As Jonathon Foley, a UW-Madison climatologist and another co-author of the Nature report, puts it, ‘‘Nature isn’t linear. Sometimes you can push on a system and push on a system and, finally, you have the straw that breaks the camel’s back.’’ Also, once the ‘‘flip’’ occurs, as Foley maintains, then the catastrophic change is ‘‘irreversible.’’ [20]. When we expand this analysis of ecosystems to the Earth itself, it’s frightening. What could be the final push on a stressed system that could ‘‘break the camel’s back?’’ Recently, another factor has been discovered in some areas of the arctic regions, which will surely compound the problem of global ‘‘heating’’ (as Lovelock calls it) in unpredictable and perhaps catastrophic ways. This disturbing development, also reported in Nature, concerns the permafrost that has locked up who knows how many tons of the greenhouse gasses, methane and carbon dioxide. Scientists are particularly worried about permafrost because, as it thaws, it releases these gases into the atmosphere, thus, contributing and accelerating global heating. It is a vicious positive feedback loop that compounds the prognosis of global warming in ways that could very well prove to be the tipping point of no return. Seth Borenstein of the Associated Press describes this disturbing positive feedback loop of permafrost greenhouse gasses, as when warming already under way thaws permafrost, soil that has been continuously frozen for thousands of years. Thawed permafrost releases methane and carbon dioxide. Those gases reach the atmosphere and help trap heat on Earth in the greenhouse effect. The trapped heat thaws more permafrost and so on.’’ [21]. The significance and severity of this problem cannot be understated since scientists have discovered that ‘‘the amount of carbon trapped in this type of permafrost called ‘‘yedoma’’ is much more prevalent than originally thought and may be 100 times [my emphasis] the amount of carbon released into the air each year by the burning of fossil fuels’’ [21]. Of course, it won’t come out all at once, at least by time as we commonly reckon it, but in terms of geological time, the ‘‘several decades’’ that scientists say it will probably take to come out can just as well be considered ‘‘all at once.’’ Surely, within the next 100 years, much of the world we live in will be quite hot and may be unlivable, as Lovelock has predicted. Professor Ted Schuur, a professor of ecosystem ecology at the University of Florida and co-author of the study that appeared in Science, describes it as a ‘‘slow motion time bomb.’’ [21]. Permafrost under lakes will be released as methane while that which is under dry ground will be released as carbon dioxide. Scientists aren’t sure which is worse. Whereas methane is a much more powerful agent to trap heat, it only lasts for about 10 years before it dissipates into carbon dioxide or other chemicals. The less powerful heat-trapping agent, carbon dioxide, lasts for 100 years [21]. Both of the greenhouse gasses present in permafrost represent a global dilemma and challenge that compounds the effects of global warming and runaway climate change. The scary thing about it, as one researcher put it, is that there are ‘‘lots of mechanisms that tend to be self-perpetuating and relatively few that tend to shut it off’’ [21].14 In an accompanying AP article, Katey Walters of the University of Alaska at Fairbanks describes the effects as ‘‘huge’’ and, unless we have a ‘‘major cooling,’’ - unstoppable [22]. Also, there’s so much more that has not even been discovered yet, she writes: ‘‘It’s coming out a lot and there’s a lot more to come out.’’ [22]. 4. Is it the end of human civilization and possible extinction of humankind? What Jonathon Schell wrote concerning death by the fire of nuclear holocaust also applies to the slow burning death of global warming: Once we learn that a holocaust might lead to extinction, we have no right to gamble, because if we lose, the game will be over, and neither we nor anyone else will ever get another chance. Therefore, although, scientifically speaking, there is all the difference in the world between the mere possibility that a holocaust will bring about extinction and the certainty of it, morally they are the same, and we have no choice but to address the issue of nuclear weapons as though we knew for a certainty that their use would put an end to our species [23].15 When we consider that beyond the horror of nuclear war, another horror is set into motion to interact with the subsequent nuclear winter to produce a poisonous and super heated planet, the chances of human survival seem even smaller. Who knows, even if some small remnant does manage to survive, what the poisonous environmental conditions would have on human evolution in the future. A remnant of mutated, sub-human creatures might survive such harsh conditions, but for all purposes, human civilization has been destroyed, and the question concerning human extinction becomes moot. Thus, we have no other choice but to consider the finality of it all, as Schell does: ‘‘Death lies at the core of each person’s private existence, but part of death’s meaning is to be found in the fact that it occurs in a biological and social world that survives.’’ [23].16 But what if the world itself were to perish, Schell asks. Would not it bring about a sort of ‘‘second death’’ – the death of the species – a possibility that the vast majority of the human race is in denial about? Talbot writes in the review of Schell’s book that it is not only the ‘‘death of the species, not just of the earth’s population on doomsday, but of countless unborn generations. They would be spared literal death but would nonetheless be victims . . .’’ [23]. That is the ‘‘second death’’ of humanity – the horrifying, unthinkable prospect that there are no prospects – that there will be no future. In the second chapter of Schell’s book, he writes that since we have not made a positive decision to exterminate ourselves but instead have ‘‘chosen to live on the edge of extinction, periodically lunging toward the abyss only to draw back at the last second, our situation is one of uncertainty and nervous insecurity rather than of absolute hopelessness.’’ [23].17 In other words, the fate of the Earth and its inhabitants has not yet been determined. Yet time is not on our side. Will we relinquish the fire and our use of it to dominate the Earth and each other, or will we continue to gamble with our future at this game of Russian roulette while time increasingly stacks the cards against our chances of survival?


Even 1% risk justifies action – the consequences are too big
Strom, ’07, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA (Robert, , “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246)

Keep in mind that the current consequences of global warming discussed in previous chapters are the result of a global average temperature increase of only 0.5 'C above the 1951-1980 average, and these consequences are beginning to accelerate. Think about what is in store for us when the average global temperature is 1 °C higher than today. That is already in the pipeline, and there is nothing we can do to prevent it. We can only plan strategies for dealing with the expected consequences, and reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by about 60% as soon as possible to ensure that we don't experience even higher temperatures. There is also the danger of eventually triggering an abrupt climate change that would accelerate global warming to a catastrophic level in a short period of time. If that were to happen we would not stand a chance. Even if that possibility had only a 1% chance of occurring, the consequences are so dire that it would be insane not to act. Clearly we cannot afford to delay taking action by waiting for additional research to more clearly define what awaits us. The time for action is now.

Climate change comparatively outweighs all other impacts
Doebbler ’11,Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer. Two threats to our existence. Ahram Weekly. July 2011. [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htmClimate|http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm]]

Climate change is widely acknowledged to be the greatest threat facing humanity. It will lead to small island states disappearing from the face of the earth, serious global threats to our food and water supplies, and ultimately the death of hundreds of millions of the poorest people in the world over the course of this century. No other threat -- including war, nuclear disasters, rogue regimes, terrorism, or the fiscal irresponsibility of governments -- is reliably predicted to cause so much harm to so many people on earth, and indeed to the earth itself. The International Panel on Climate Change, which won the Nobel Prize for its evaluation of thousands of research studies to provide us accurate information on climate change, has predicted that under the current scenario of "business-as-usual", temperatures could rise by as much as 10 degrees Celsius in some parts of the world. This would have horrendous consequences for the most vulnerable people in the world. Consequences that the past spokesman of 136 developing countries, Lumumba Diaping, described as the equivalent of sending hundreds of millions of Africans to the furnace. Yet for more than two decades, states have failed to take adequate action to either prevent climate change or to deal with its consequences. A major reason for this is that many wealthy industrialised countries view climate change as at worst an inconvenience, or at best even a potential market condition from which they can profit at the expense of developing countries. Indeed, history has shown them that because of their significantly higher levels of population they have grown rich and been able to enslave, exploit and marginalise their neighbours in developing countries. They continue in this vein.


C02 turns oceans to acid killing all marine ecosystems
Stern ’07—Head of the British Government Economic Service—(Former Head Economist for the World Bank, I.G. Patel Chair at the London School of Economics and Political Science, “The Economics of Climate Change: The Stern Review”, The report of a team commissioned by the British Government to study the economics of climate change led by Siobhan Peters, Head of G8 and International Climate Change Policy Unit, Cambridge University Press, p. 72)

Ocean acidification, a direct result of rising carbon dioxide levels, will have major effects on marine ecosystems, with possible adverse consequences on fish stocks. For fisheries, information on the likely impacts of climate change is very limited – a major gap in knowledge considering that about one billion people worldwide (one-sixth of the world’s population) rely on fish as their primary source of animal protein. While higher ocean temperatures may increase growth rates of some fish, reduced nutrient supplies due to warming may limit growth. Ocean acidification is likely to be particularly damaging. The oceans have become more acidic in the past 200 years, because of chemical changes caused by increasing amounts of carbon dioxide dissolving in seawater.44 If global emissions continue to rise on current trends, ocean acidity is likely to increase further, with pH declining by an additional 0.15 units if carbon dioxide levels double (to 560 ppm) relative to pre-industrial and an additional 0.3 units if carbon dioxide levels treble (to 840 ppm).45 Changes on this scale have not been experienced for hundreds of thousands of years and are occurring at an extremely rapid rate. Increasing ocean acidity makes it harder for many ocean creatures to form shells and skeletons from calcium carbonate. These chemical changes have the potential to disrupt marine ecosystems irreversibly - at the very least halting the growth of corals, which provide important nursery grounds for commercial fish, and damaging molluscs and certain types of plankton at the base of the food chain. Plankton and marine snails are critical to sustaining species such as salmon, mackerel and baleen whales, and such changes are expected to have serious but as-yet-unquantified wider impacts.


Accelerating ocean loss causes extinction
Rogers and Laffoley 6/20/11 Alex David, Ph.D. in marine invertebrate systematics and geneticsfrom the University of Liverpool is a Professor in Conservation Biology at the Department of Zoology, University of Oxford and Dan, PhD on marine ecology at the University of Exeter, and Senior Advisor, Marine Science and Conservation Global Marine and Polar Programme (IPSO Oxford, “International earth system expert workshop on ocean stresses and impacts”, July 20, 2011, [[http://www.stateoftheocean.org/pdfs/1906_IPSO-LONG.pdf]])

The workshop enabled leading experts to take a global view on how all the different effects we are having on the ocean are compromising its ability to support us. This examination of synergistic threats leads to the conclusion that we have underestimated the overall risks and that the whole of marine degradation is greater than the sum of its parts, and that degradation is now happening at a faster rate than predicted. It is clear that the traditional economic and consumer values that formerly served society well, when coupled with current rates of population increase, are not sustainable. The ocean is the largest ecosystem on Earth, supports us and maintains our world in a habitable condition. To maintain the goods and services it has provided to humankind for millennia demands change in how we view, manage, govern and use marine ecosystems. The scale of the stresses on the ocean means that deferring action will increase costs in the future leading to even greater losses of benefits. The key points needed to drive a common sense rethink are: • Human actions have resulted in warming and acidification of the oceans and are now causing increased hypoxia. Studies of the Earth’s past indicate that these are three symptoms that indicate disturbances of the carbon cycle associated with each of the previous five mass extinctions on Earth (e.g. Erwin, 2008; Veron, 2008a,b; Veron et al., 2009; Barnosky et al., 2011). • The speeds of many negative changes to the ocean are near to or are tracking the worstcase scenarios from IPCC and other predictions. Some are as predicted, but many are faster than anticipated, and many are still accelerating. Consequences of current rates of change already matching those predicted under the “worst case scenario” include: the rate of decrease in Arctic Sea Ice (Stroeve et al., 2007; Wang & Overland, 2009) and in the accelerated melting of both the Greenland icesheet (Velicogna, 2009; Khan et al., 2010; Rignot et al., 2011) and Antarctic ice sheets (Chen et al., 2009; Rignot et al., 2008, 2011; Velicogna, 2009); sea level rise (Rahmstorf 2007a,b; Rahmstorf et al., 2007; Nicholls et al., 2011); and release of trapped methane from the seabed (Westbrook et al., 2009; Shakova et al., 2010; although not yet globally significant Dlugokencky et al., 2009). The ‘worst case’ effects are compounding other changes more consistent with predictions including: changes in the distribution and abundance of marine species (Beaugrand & Reid, 2003; Beaugrand 2004, 2009; Beaugrand et al., 2003; 2010; Cheung et al. 2009, 2010, Reid et al., 2007; Johnson et al., 2011; Philippart et al., 2011; Schiel, 2011; Wassmann et al., 2011; Wernberg et al., 2011); changes in primary production (Behrenfeld et al., 2006; Chavez et al., 2011); changes in the distribution of harmful algal blooms (Heisler et al., 2008; Bauman et al., 2010); increases in health hazards in the oceans (e.g. ciguatera, pathogens; Van Dolah, 2000; Lipp et al., 2002; Dickey & Plakas, 2009); and loss of both large, longklived and small fish species causing widespread impacts on marine ecosystems, including direct impacts on predator and prey species, the simplification and destabilization of food webs, reduction of resilience to the effects of climate change (e.g. Jackson et al. 2001; Pauly et al., 1998; Worm & Myers, 2003; Baum & Myers, 2004; Rosenberg et al., 2005; Worm et al., 2006; Myers et al., 2007; Jackson, 2008; Baum & Worm, 2009; Ferretti et al., 2010; Hutchings et al., 2010; WardkPaige et al., 2010; Pinskya et al., 2011). • The magnitude of the cumulative impacts on the ocean is greater than previously understood Interactions between different impacts can be negatively synergistic (negative impact greater than sum of individual stressors) or they can be antagonistic (lowering the effects of individual impacts). Examples of such interactions include: combinations of overfishing, physical disturbance, climate change effects, nutrient runoff and introductions of nonknative species leading to explosions of these invasive species, including harmful algal blooms, and dead zones (Rabalais et al., 2001, 2002; Daskalov et al., 2007; Purcell et al., 2007; Boero et al., 2008; Heisler et al., 2008; Dickey & Plakas, 2009; Bauman et al., 2010; VaquerkSunur & Duarte, 2010); increased temperature and acidification increasing the susceptibility of corals to bleaching (Anthony et al., 2008) and acting synergistically to impact the reproduction and development of other marine invertebrates (Parker et al., 2009); changes in the behavior, fate and toxicity of heavy metals with acidification (Millero et al., 2009; Pascal et al., 2010); acidification may reduce the limiting effect of iron availability on primary production in some parts of the ocean (Shi et al., 2010; King et al., 2011); increased uptake of plastics by fauna (Andrady 2011, Hirai & Takada et al. 2011, Murray & Cowie, 2011), and increased bioavailability of pollutants through adsorption onto the surface of microplastic particles (Graham & Thompson 2009, Moore 2008, Thomson, et al., 2009); and feedbacks of climate change impacts on the oceans (temperature rise, sea level rise, loss of ice cover, acidification, increased storm intensity, methane release) on their rate of CO2 uptake and global warming (Lenton et al., 2008; Reid et al 2009). • Timelines for action are shrinking. The longer the delay in reducing emissions the higher the annual reduction rate will have to be and the greater the financial cost. Delays will mean increased environmental damage with greater socioeconomic impacts and costs of mitigation and adaptation measures. • Resilience of the ocean to climate change impacts is severely compromised by the other stressors from human activities, including fisheries, pollution and habitat destruction. Examples include the overfishing of reef grazers, nutrient runoff, and other forms of pollution (presence of pathogens or endocrine disrupting chemicals (Porte et al., 2006; OSPAR 2010)) reducing the recovery ability of reefs from temperaturekinduced mass coral bleaching (Hoeghk Guldberg et al., 2007; Mumby et al., 2007; Hughes et al., 2010; Jackson, 2010; Mumby & Harborne, 2010) . These multiple stressors promote the phase shift of reef ecosystems from being coralkdominated to algal dominated. The loss of genetic diversity from overfishing reduces ability to adapt to stressors. • Ecosystem collapse is occurring as a result of both current and emerging stressors. Stressors include chemical pollutants, agriculture runkoff, sediment loads and overkextraction of many components of food webs which singly and together severely impair the functioning of ecosystems. Consequences include the potential increase of harmful algal blooms in recent decades (Van Dolah, 2000; Landsberg, 2002; Heisler et al., 2008; Dickey & Plakas, 2009; Wang & Wu, 2009); the spread of oxygen depleted or dead zones (Rabalais et al., 2002; Diaz & Rosenberg, 2008; VaquerkSunyer & Duarte, 2008); the disturbance of the structure and functioning of marine food webs, to the benefit of planktonic organisms of low nutritional value, such as jellyfish or other gelatinousklike organisms (Broduer et al., 1999; Mills, 2001; Pauly et al. 2009; Boero et al., 2008; Moore et al., 2008); dramatic changes in the microbial communities with negative impacts at the ecosystem scale (Dinsdale et al., 2008; Jackson, 2010); and the impact of emerging chemical contaminants in ecosystems (la Farré et al., 2008). This impairment damages or eliminates the ability of ecosystems to support humans. • The extinction threat to marine species is rapidly increasing. The main causes of extinctions of marine species to date are overexploitation and habitat loss (Dulvy et al., 2009). However climate change is increasingly adding to this, as evidenced by the recent IUCN Red List Assessment of reforming corals (Carpenter et al., 2008). Some other species ranges have already extended or shifted polekwards and into deeper cooler waters (Reid et al., 2009); this may not be possible for some species to achieve, potentially leading to reduced habitats and more extinctions. Shifts in currents and temperatures will affect the food supply of animals, including at critical early stages, potentially testing their ability to survive. The participants concluded that not only are we already experiencing severe declines in many species to the point of commercial extinction in some cases, and an unparalleled rate of regional extinctions of habitat types (eg mangroves and seagrass meadows), but we now face losing marine species and entire marine ecosystems, such as coral reefs, within a single generation. Unless action is taken now, the consequences of our activities are at a high risk of causing, through the combined effects of climate change, overexploitation, pollution and habitat loss, the next globally significant extinction event in the ocean. It is notable that the occurrence of multiple high intensity stressors has been a prerequisite for all the five global extinction events of the past 600 million years (Barnosky et al., 2009).

Positive feedbacks drive irreversible tipping points—only aff solvency claims are true—all their authors are media hype
Foster, 10 – Professor of Sociology at the University of Oregon (John B., December 2010, “Notes from the Editors”, [[http://www.monthlyreview.org/nfte101201.php]],)
***Citing James Hansen—Director of NASA’s Institue for Space Studies and Leading U.S. Climatologist

On October 16, MR editor John Bellamy Foster attended a lecture in Eugene, Oregon given by James Hansen, director of NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies. Hansen is the leading U.S. climatologist and the world’s foremost voice for carbon emissions reductions. According to Hansen, we are facing two major tipping points associated with climate change: (1) ice sheet disintegration in Antarctica and Greenland, leading to a massive global sea level rise; and (2) a sudden acceleration in species extinction rates (already 100 to 1,000 times the preindustrial “background rate”), as climate zones begin to move much faster than species can move in response. Matters are further complicated by positive feedback mechanisms such as the rapidly melting Arctic Ocean ice (which reduces the earth’s reflectivity) and the release of methane, a very potent greenhouse gas, from the tundra. Such factors will accelerate global warming. Empirical indications at present are alarming. The ice sheets of Greenland and Antarctica are losing mass at increasing rates. Glaciers are melting rapidly in mountainous regions. More than half the water in the Ganges and the Brahmaputra comes from melting ice. The result of global warming will be seasonal increases in floods and droughts. In the oceans, coral reefs are threatened, due to the bleaching of the corals and ocean acidification (resulting, like climate change, from excessive carbon emissions). Hansen’s message was clear: the future of the planet will be in many ways determined by what we do “in the next several years.” This, he insists, is not a problem to be left to the next generation, since we “could create a situation out of the control of young people by the time they become adults.” Hansen was also clear about what needs to be done: wean society from dependence on fossil fuels, and quickly. Fossil fuel production, he argues, is directly subsidized in the market, while its costs to the environment and human health are socialized. It is necessary to alter this and treat carbon dioxide emissions as a pollutant. He sees the chief tool in this respect to be a fee on carbon at the point of production or importation, to be distributed in full as dividends to the population on a per capita basis—so that those with less than average per capita emissions (the vast majority of the population) would receive a net increase in income. In the United States, a carbon fee of $115 per ton of carbon dioxide, which would increase the cost of gasoline by approximately $1 per gallon and the average cost of electricity by about 8 cents per kilowatt-hour, would generate over $600 billion in dividends or $2,000 to $3,000 a year per adult resident. Hansen is completely opposed to letting government have any of this revenue, since the support of the population for such a tax depends on the surety that the revenue would be returned to them on a per capita basis, making it a mere transfer payment. Carbon trading, the approach promoted in the Kyoto process, is, as Hansen has frequently noted, “worse than nothing,” since it allows emissions to rise appreciably, while giving the false impression that the problem is being addressed. A carbon fee, he argues, “is the only internationally viable approach.” He points to the fact that China—already a leader in alternative energy technology, such as solar panels, wind technology, etc.—is planning to impose such a fee, as among the most hopeful of current developments. Today coal is the number one enemy of the climate. So-called “clean coal” is nonexistent at present, and unlikely ever to become economically viable. Hansen argues that coal-fired plants need to be closed down, and the building of new ones stopped. As peak crude oil becomes more of a reality, a line has to be drawn to prevent a turn to dirtier fossil fuels: coal, tar sands, shale oil, and gas. In the United States both the executive and legislative branches have proven themselves unable to resist continual pressure from the vested interests to back away from any effective legislation on climate change. Media corporations have hyped the views of “denialists,” giving those who disavow global warming equal standing in the climate debate—despite their minuscule numbers among scientists, their inability to “stand up against real scientists,” and the fact that their ideas are supported by no scientific body on Earth. The result has been to increase rather than decrease the gap between scientific knowledge and public perceptions. Hansen now hopes that the judiciary will be less subject to external pressures from corporations than the other two branches of government, and that the courts will respond to scientific evidence, protecting the population through a series of injunctions. Hansen was most heavily questioned by his largely environmentalist audience in relation to his claim that nuclear power would be needed to replace coal in providing base-load electrical power, and that nuclear power (witness France) was safe. Hansen’s point was that continued fossil fuel use means certain catastrophe in the short term and already inflicts enormous environmental and health costs affecting millions of people, while nuclear power is, in comparison, far safer. But much of his audience was clearly not convinced that fourth-generation nuclear power could be part of the answer, or that governments are stable and responsible enough to be trustworthy caretakers in this respect.

SPS creation doesn't cause warming
Asakura, Professor @ Azabu University, 2k (Asakura, Keiichiro, Collins, Patrick, Nomura, Koji, Hayami, Hitoshi, and Yoshioka, Kanji, Department of Environmental Policy @ Azabu University, " CO2 Emission from Solar Power Satellite through its Life Cycle: Comparison of Power Generation Systems using Japanese Input-Output Tables," July, [[http://policy.rutgers.edu/cupr/iioa/AsakuraCollinsNomuraHayami&Yoshioka_LifeCycleCO2.pdf]], EMM)

In this paper we have analyzed the CO2 emission likely to be produced by a system of Solar Power Satellites in as much detail as possible, based on the DOE/NASA Reference System. Based on this analysis, in order to satisfy Japan's present electricity supply, some 18 SPSs of 5 GW output would be needed, which we have estimated would release some 470 million tons of CO2. Japan currently releases some 1.2 billion tons of CO2 per year, so it is clear that a large amount of CO2 is released when the SPS system is constructed. However, the overall CO2 output is of the same order as nuclear power stations at 20 kg per kWh. This is about 1/60 of the output of coal- red power stations, and 1/30 of the CO2 output of LNG- red power stations. Furthermore, the SPS-Breeder scenario shows significant improvement in CO2 emissions at only 11g per kWh. Of course SPS is a future technological system, and potential problems concerning various parts and components remain to be resolved, but our result suggests that the SPS is one of the most effective alternative technology for further CO2 reduction in electric power generation. One of the ways to solve Earth-wide environmental problems is to generate electric power in environmentally clean ways. The SPS system may give us the opportunity to solve this problem and to initiative the escape from a 'closed-Earth' industrial-economic system.

===Deterrence=== 
Advantage 2 is deterrence
We isolate 3 internal links
First is Aerospace dominance— Infrastructure and tech advances of SPS provide a framework to ensure the US remains the aerospace leader NSSO ’07, National Security Space Office, October 10,2007, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]], “Space Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, pg 15, 16. DKreus

FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that SBSP offers a path to address the concerns over US intellectual competitiveness in math and the physical sciences expressed by the Rising Above the Gathering Storm report by providing a true “Manhattan or Apollo project for energy.” In absolute scale and implications, it is likely that SBSP would ultimately exceed both the Manhattan and Apollo projects which established significant workforces and helped the US maintain its technical and competitive lead. The committee expressed it was “deeply concerned that the scientific and technological building blocks critical to our economic leadership are eroding at a time when many other nations are gathering strength.” SBSP would require a substantial technical workforce of high‐paying jobs. It would require expanded technical education opportunities, and directly support the underlying aims of the American Competitiveness Initiative. FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that SBSP directly addresses the concerns of the Presidential Aerospace Commission which called on the US to become a true spacefaring civilization and to pay closer attention to our aerospace technical and industrial base, our “national jewel” which has enhanced our security, wealth, travel, and lifestyle. An SBSP program as outlined in this report is remarkably consonant with the findings of this commission, which stated: The United States must maintain its preeminence in aerospace research and innovation to be the global aerospace leader in the 21st century. This can only be achieved through proactive government policies and sustained public investments in long‐term research and RDT&E infrastructure that will result in new breakthrough aerospace capabilities. Over the last several decades, the U.S. aerospace sector has been living off the research investments made primarily for defense during the Cold War…Government policies and investments in long‐term research have not kept pace with the changing world. Our nation does not have bold national aerospace technology goals to focus and sustain federal research and related infrastructure investments. The nation needs to capitalize on these opportunities, and the federal government needs to lead the effort. Specifically, it needs to invest in long‐term enabling research and related RDT&E infrastructure, establish national aerospace technology demonstration goals, and create an environment that fosters innovation and provide the incentives necessary to encourage risk taking and rapid introduction of new products and services. The Aerospace Commission recognized that Global U.S. aerospace leadership can only be achieved through investments in our future, including our industrial base, workforce, long term research and national infrastructure, and that government must commit to increased and sustained investment and must facilitate private investment in our national aerospace sector. The Commission concluded that the nation will have to be a space‐faring nation in order to be the global leader in the 21st century—that our freedom, mobility, and quality of life will depend on it, and therefore, recommended that the United States boldly pioneer new frontiers in aerospace technology, commerce and exploration. They explicitly recommended that the United States create a space imperative and that NASA and DoD need to make the investments necessary for developing and supporting future launch capabilities to revitalize U.S. space launch infrastructure, as well as provide Incentives to Commercial Space. The report called on government and the investment community must become more sensitive to commercial opportunities and problems in space. Recognizing the new realities of a highly dynamic, competitive and global marketplace, the report noted that the federal government is dysfunctional when addressing 21st century issues from a long term, national and global perspective. It suggested an increase in public funding for long term research and supporting infrastructure and an acceleration of transition of government research to the aerospace sector, recognizing that government must assist industry by providing insight into its long‐term research programs, and industry needs to provide to government on its research priorities. It urged the federal government must remove unnecessary barriers to international sales of defense products, and implement other initiatives that strengthen transnational partnerships to enhance national security, noting that U.S. national security and procurement policies represent some of the most burdensome restrictions affecting U.S. industry competitiveness. Private‐public partnerships were also to be encouraged. It also noted that without constant vigilance and investment, vital capabilities in our defense industrial base will be lost, and so recommended a fenced amount of research and development budget, and significantly increase in the investment in basic aerospace research to increase opportunities to gain experience in the workforce by enabling breakthrough aerospace capabilities through continuous development of new experimental systems with or without a requirement for production. Such experimentation was deemed to be essential to sustain the critical skills to conceive, develop, manufacture and maintain advanced systems and potentially provide expanded capability to the warfighter. A top priority was increased investment in basic aerospace research which fosters an efficient, secure, and safe aerospace transportation system, and suggested the establishment of national maintain advanced systems and potentially provide expanded capability to the warfighter. A top priority was increased investment in basic aerospace research which fosters an efficient, secure, and safe aerospace transportation system, and suggested the establishment of national technology demonstration goals, which included reducing the cost and time to space by 50%. It concluded that, “America must exploit and explore space to assure national and planetary security, economic benefit and scientific discovery. At the same time, the United States must overcome the obstacles that jeopardize its ability to sustain leadership in space.” An SBSP program would be a powerful expression of this imperative.

Independently, that’s key to hard power
Walker et al, ’02, - Robert Walker, Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, November 2002, [[http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf]], DKreus)

Defending our nation against its enemies is the first and fundamental commitment of the federal government.2 This translates into two broad missions—Defend America and Project Power—when and where needed. In order to defend America and project power, the nation needs the ability to move manpower, materiel, intelligence information and precision weaponry swiftly to any point around the globe, when needed. This has been, and will continue to be, a mainstay of our national security strategy. The events of September 11, 2001 dramatically demonstrated the extent of our national reliance on aerospace capabilities and related military contributions to homeland security. Combat air patrols swept the skies; satellites supported real-time communications for emergency responders, imagery for recovery, and intelligence on terrorist activities; and the security and protection of key government officials was enabled by timely air transport. As recent events in Afghanistan and Kosovo show, the power generated by our nation’s aerospace capabilities is an—and perhaps the—essential ingredient in force projection and expeditionary operations. In both places, at the outset of the crisis, satellites and reconnaissance aircraft, some unmanned, provided critical strategic and tactical intelligence to our national leadership. Space-borne intelligence, command, control and communications assets permitted the rapid targeting of key enemy positions and facilities. Airlifters and tankers brought personnel, materiel, and aircraft to critical locations. And aerial bombardment, with precision weapons and cruise missiles, often aided by the Global Positioning System (GPS) and the Predator unmanned vehicle, destroyed enemy forces. Aircraft carriers and their aircraft also played key roles in both conflicts. Today’s military aerospace capabilities are indeed robust, but at significant risk. They rely on platforms and an industrial base—measured in both human capital and physical facilities—that are aging and increasingly inadequate. Consider just a few of the issues: • Much of our capability to defend America and project power depends on satellites. Assured reliable access to space is a critical enabler of this capability. As recently as 1998, the key to near- and mid-term space access was the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV), a development project of Boeing, Lockheed Martin and the U. S. Air Force. EELV drew primarily on commercial demand to close the business case for two new launchers, with the U.S. government essentially buying launches at the margin. In this model, each company partner made significant investments of corporate funds in vehicle development and infrastructure, reducing the overall need for government investment. Today, however, worldwide demand for commer-cial satellite launch has dropped essentially to nothing—and is not expected to rise for a decade or more—while the number of available launch platforms worldwide has proliferated. Today, therefore, the business case for EELV simply does not close, and reliance on the economics of a com-mercially-driven market is unsustainable. A new strategy for assured access to space must be found. • The U.S. needs unrestricted access to space for civil, commercial, and military applications. Our satellite systems will become increasingly impor- tant to military operations as today’s information revolution, the so-called “revolution in military affairs,” continues, while at the same time satellites will become increasingly vulnerable to attack as the century proceeds. To preserve critical satellite net-works, the nation will almost certainly need the capability to launch replacement satellites quickly after an attack. One of the key enablers for “launch on demand” is reusable space launch, and yet within the last year all work has been stopped on the X-33 and X-34 reusable launch programs • The challenge for the defense industrial base is to have the capability to build the base force struc-ture, support contingency-related surges, provide production capacity that can increase faster than any new emerging global threat can build up its capacity, and provide an “appropriate” return to shareholders. But the motivation of government and industry are different. This is a prime detrac-tion for wanting to form government-industry partnerships. Industry prioritizes investments toward near-term, high-return, and high-dollar programs that make for a sound business case for them. Government, on the other hand, wants to prioritize investment to ensure a continuing capa-bility to meet any new threat to the nation. This need is cyclical and difficult for businesses to sus-tain during periods of government inactiv-ity. Based on the cyclic nature of demand, the increasing cost/complexity of new systems, and the slow pace of defense modernization, aerospace companies are losing market advantages and the sector is contracting. Twenty-two years ago, today’s “Big 5” in aerospace were 75 separate companies, as depicted by the historical chart of industry con-solidation shown in Chapter 7. • Tactical combat aircraft have been a key compo-nent of America’s air forces. Today, three tactical aircraft programs continue: the F/A-18E/F (in production), the F/A-22 (in a late stage of test and evaluation), and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (just moving into system design and development). Because of the recentness of these programs, there are robust design teams in existence. But all of the initial design work on all three programs will be completed by 2008. If the nation were to con- clude, as it very well may, that a new manned tac- tical aircraft needs to be fielded in the middle of this century, where will we find the experienced design teams required to design and build it, if the design process is in fact gapped for 20 years or more? • More than half of the aerospace workforce is over the age of 404, and the average age of aerospace defense workers is over 50.5Inside the Department of Defense (DoD), a large percent of all scientists and engineers will be retirement eligible by 2005. Given these demographics, there will be an exodus of “corporate knowledge” in the next decade that will be difficult and costly to rebuild once it is lost. There will be a critical need for new engineers, but little new work to mature their practical skill over the next several decades. Further, enrollment in aerospace engineering programs has dropped by 47 percent in the past nine years6, and the interest and national skills in mathematics and science are down. Defense spending on cutting-edge work is at best stable, and commercial aircraft programs are struggling and laying workers off. As the DoD’s recent Space Research and Development (R&D) Industrial Base Study7 concluded, “[s]ustaining a talented workforce of sufficient size and experience remains a long-term issue and is likely to get worse.” In short, the nation needs a plan to attract, train and maintain a skilled, world-class aerospace workforce, but none currently exists. • The current U.S. research, development, test and evaluation (RDT&E) infrastructure has a legacy dating back to either World War II or the expan- sion during the Space Age in the 1960s. It is now suffering significantly from a lack of resources required for modernization. In some cases, our nation’s capabilities have atrophied and we have lost the lead, as with our outdated wind tunnels, where European facilities are now more modern and efficient. In the current climate, there is inad- equate funding to modernize aging government infrastructure or build facilities that would support the development of new transformational capabil- ities, such as wind tunnels needed to design and test new hypersonic vehicles. The aerospace indus-try must have access to appropriate, modern facil- ities to develop, test and evaluate new systems. Throughout this dynamic and challenging environ-ment, one message remains clear: a healthy U.S. aerospace industry is more than a hedge against an uncertain future. It is one of the primary national instruments through which DoD will develop and obtain the superior technologies and capabilities essential to the on-going transformation of the armed forces, thus maintaining our position as the world’s preeminent military power.


Second is DoD standardization
DoD involvement is vital to standardization in the private sector
Aerospace Industries ’05, Aerospace Industries Association of America, Inc. [“The future of aerospace standardization,” [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/library/reports/aerospace_standardization0105.pdf]]]
“The DoD is committed to increased defense contractor productivity and improved acquisition efficiency. Standardization documents play an important role in this context, and must be selected and properly applied with this objective in mind. They provide the framework by which requirements are defined.” 22 These words regarding the importance of standards and contained within the DoD’s documentation for the use of standards, commits the government to the use of standards for acquisition. But if the DoD is committed to the use of industry standards to support the acquisition of new platforms and programs, then they need to ensure that DoD requirements are contained in and met by these standards. The move to use industry standards does not mean that the DoD no longer has to concern itself with the management and maintenance of these documents. This couldn’t be farther from the truth. Key to DoD acquisition policy is the use of commercial best practices and industry standards. The National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act, Public Law 104-113, requires federal agencies and departments to use technical standards that are developed or adopted by voluntary consensus standards bodies as long as those standards meet the government’s needs. Government agencies and the Department of Defense recognize the huge cost and time savings through the dual use of technology – technology defined by standards. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-119, “Federal Participation in the Development and Use of Voluntary Standards” has resulted in reducing government costs. DoD efforts to replace military specifications with commercial item specifications have saved procurement funds and reduced the need for suppliers to maintain separate military and commercial production capabilities.23 For aerospace, industry working closely with DoD is key to the creation of standards which will be value-added for both military and commercial use and will allow each to take advantage of best practices developed by the other. And to ensure that DoD requirements are contained in industry standards, DoD subject matter experts need to participate fully in the development and maintenance of industry standards. One of the greatest threats today to the lack of suitable standards for logistics support is the under funding and underrepresentation of DoD interests in industry standardization activities.

Standards in the aerospace industry are necessary to retain technological dominance.
Aerospace Industries ’05, Aerospace Industries Association of America, Inc. [“The future of aerospace standardization,” [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/library/reports/aerospace_standardization0105.pdf]Aerospace|http://www.aia-aerospace.org/library/reports/aerospace_standardization0105.pdf]]]

Aerospace has been at the center of America’s technological leadership for the last century. The advances in science, technology, engineering, and manufacturing represented by the civil, military and space sectors are extraordinary. And underpinning all these accomplishments is the vast wealth of technical data housed, maintained, and disseminated through standards. Standards form the single largest source of technical data used in the design, build, and support of aerospace products. And the fact that standards are critical to the production and safe operation of aerospace products and platforms, lead the President’s Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry in their 2002 report to state that “Global standards and regulations are critical to the efficient operation of the global aviation system and international markets”. The Aerospace Industries Association (AIA), at the request of their Board of Governors, established the Future of Aerospace Standardization Working Group in September of 2003 to follow-up on the Commission’s report and take an in-depth look at the health of the aerospace standards and to identify actions that industry needs to take to ensure its health in the future. The Working Group examined the current aerospace standardization systems and processes, defined requirements for standards and standards systems which will support continued and future growth of the aerospace industry, and established a set of recommendations for ensuring the optimum standards infrastructure to carry the aerospace industry into the future. A Call to Action The findings of the Future of Aerospace Standardization Working Group, and the recommendations made, extend beyond just the membership of the Aerospace Industries Association to include all stakeholders in aerospace. These recommendations are much more far reaching and strategic than can be tackled by the AIA alone. If they are to have any impact, these recommendations must be endorsed and implementation directed by all industry stakeholder leaders including Government policy makers, Industry CEO's and senior management, down to the subject matter experts throughout the aerospace industry. The impact of not taking prompt action will be the continued erosion of the effectiveness and benefits of this collective body of worldwide aerospace technical information. Without effective leadership in aerospace standardization, an ever increasing percentage of the technical data that supports our industry will be developed in venues controlled outside of aerospace. This means that a greater and greater percentage of our air vehicles will be defined by technical documentation developed in standards committees where the aerospace industry has little influence or the industry is represented by a surrogate on a one nation one vote basis. It is believed that this report represents the most comprehensive evaluation of aerospace standardization ever undertaken. If the Working Group’s conclusions are correct, then inaction is perilous for virtually all stakeholders of aerospace industry – primes, every tier of supplier, customers, both civil and defense, standards developers, and those who rely on the quality, safety, and reliability of the products the aerospace industry produces. It is imperative, therefore, that action be swift, and that it be directed from the very highest levels of industry and government. The actions need to be led from the executive suite and implementation guided by the senior VP level. Standardization, at its most fundamental level, is tactical, but an industry-wide approach to standardization is clearly strategic. The industry can not afford to neglect the development of the technical documentation that supports the design, build, operation, and maintenance of aerospace products. With action, however, the US will continue to be a leader in the development of standards essential to our aerospace capability. Leadership can focus resources on critical standardization needs and cease dispersing engineering talent over so many venues that standardization is lost through the diffusion of efforts. With leadership we claim the highroad of standards defined by technical excellence and market relevance, developed through responsive venues involving all stakeholders, and using tools and formats that allow this critical data to seamlessly integrate with all other product data. These recommendations represent a “Call to Action” for the aerospace industry to protect this critical body of technical knowledge and ensure that it will carry the industry successfully into the future. Chapter 1. Vision: Standards – Enabling the Future of Aerospace According to an extensive study done in 1987, 39% of all aerospace engineering data and 38% of all manufacturing data is derived from standards. Standards are fundamental to all business aspects of aerospace as the vehicles for interoperability and interconnectivity; the common requirements to ensure reliability, repeatability and quality; the basis for safety and certification; and one of the most powerful mechanisms for propagating change.

Aerospace tech decline directly facilitates the emergence of hostile global rivals
Snead, ’07, - Mike Snead, Aerospace engineer and consultant focusing on Near-future space infrastructure development ,6/3/2007, “How America Can and Why America Must Now Become a True Spacefaring Nation,” Spacefaring America Blog, , [[http://spacefaringamerica.net/2007/06/03/6--why-the-next-president-should-start-america-on-the-path-to-becoming-a-true-spacefaring-nation.aspx]], DKreus

Great power status is achieved through competition between nations. This competition is often based on advancing science and technology and applying these advancements to enabling new operational capabilities. A great power that succeeds in this competition adds to its power while a great power that does not compete or does so ineffectively or by choice, becomes comparatively less powerful. Eventually, it loses the great power status and then must align itself with another great power for protection. As the pace of science and technology advancement has increased, so has the potential for the pace of change of great power status. While the U.S. "invented" powered flight in 1903, a decade later leadership in this area had shifted to Europe. Within a little more than a decade after the Wright Brothers' first flights, the great powers of Europe were introducing aeronautics into major land warfare through the creation of air forces. When the U.S. entered the war in 1917, it was forced to rely on French-built aircraft. Twenty years later, as the European great powers were on the verge of beginning another major European war, the U.S. found itself in a similar situation where its choice to diminish national investment in aeronautics during the 1920's and 1930's—you may recall that this was the era of General Billy Mitchell and his famous efforts to promote military air power—placed U.S. air forces at a significant disadvantage compared to those of Germany and Japan. This was crucial because military air power was quickly emerging as the "game changer" for conventional warfare. Land and sea forces increasingly needed capable air forces to survive and generally needed air superiority to prevail. With the great power advantages of becoming spacefaring expected to be comparable to those derived from becoming air-faring in the 1920's and 1930's, a delay by the U.S. in enhancing its great power strengths through expanded national space power may result in a reoccurrence ₪ stopped here at 08:06 ₪ of the rapid emergence of new or the rapid growth of current great powers to the point that they are capable of effectively challenging the U.S. Many great powers—China, India, and Russia—are already speaking of plans for developing spacefaring capabilities. Yet, today, the U.S. retains a commanding aerospace technological lead over these nations. A strong effort by the U.S. to become a true spacefaring nation, starting in 2009 with the new presidential administration, may yield a generation or longer lead in space, not just through prudent increases in military strength but also through the other areas of great power competition discussed above. This is an advantage that the next presidential administration should exercise.

Third is forward deployment
SPS is key to forward deployment and eliminates supply lines Taylor Dinerman, senior editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York branch and co-author of the forthcoming Towards a Theory of Spacepower: Selected Essays, from National Defense University Press, 11/24/2008, “Space solar power and the Khyber Pass”, The Space Review, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1255/1Last|http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1255/1]]

Last year the National Security Space Office released its initial report on space solar power (SSP). One of the primary justifications for the project was the potential of the system to provide power from space for remote military bases. Electrical power is only part of the story. If the military really wants to be able to operate for long periods of time without using vulnerable supply lines it will have to find a new way to get liquid fuel to its forward operating forces. This may seem impossible at first glance, but by combining space solar power with some of the innovative alternative fuels and fuel manufacturing systems that are now in the pipeline, and given enough time and effort, the problem could be solved. The trick is, of course, to have enough raw energy available so that it is possible to transform whatever is available into liquid fuel. This may mean something as easy as making methanol from sugar cane or making jet fuel from natural gas, or something as exotic as cellulosic ethanol from waste products. Afghanistan has coal and natural gas that could be turned into liquid fuels with the right technology. What is needed is a portable system that can be transported in standard containers and set up anywhere there are the resources needed to make fuel. This can be done even before space solar power is available, but with SSP it becomes much easier. In the longer run Pakistan’s closure of the Khyber Pass supply route justifies investment in SSP as a technology that landlocked nations can use to avoid the pressures and threats that they now have to live with. Without access to the sea, nations such as Afghanistan are all too vulnerable to machinations from their neighbors. Imagine how different history would be if the Afghans had had a “Polish Corridor” and their own port. Their access to the world economy might have changed their culture in positive ways. Bangladesh and Indonesia are both Muslim states whose access to the oceans have helped them adapt to the modern world.


That destroys conventional deterrence
Wald and Captain ’09 [ General Charles F. Wald (USAF Ret) Director and Senior Advisor, Aerospace & Defense Industry, Tom Captain Vice Chairman, Global and U.S. Aerospace & Defense Industry Leader, “ Energy Security America’s Best Defense” 2009, [[http://www.deloitte.com/assets/Dcom-UnitedStates/Local%20Assets/Documents/AD/us_ad_EnergySecurity052010.pdf]], Caplan]
Energy security and national security are closely interrelated: threats to the former are likely to translate as threats to the latter. The U.S. military, in its planning for the future, recognizes the ability of an adversary (or adversaries) to use the ‘oil weapon.’ The control over enormous oil supplies gives exporting countries the flexibility to adopt policies that oppose democratic interests and values — and the United States and its allies. Case in point — Russia has withheld natural gas supplies to both Ukraine and Georgia in the last few years alone, demonstrating that, as the Economist wrote in 2006, “when it comes to hydrocarbons, geopolitics, and geology are inextricable.” The global oil market is highly vulnerable to potential supply disruptions. Global energy reserves are heavily concentrated among a handful of major producers and the largest consuming centers are often far from producing basins. Chokepoints are narrow channels along widely used global sea routes. These “lines of communication” (LOCs) represent a critical part of the global energy security infrastructure due to the high percentage of the world’s daily energy supply that passes through their narrow straits. The Straits of Hormuz, Strait of Malacca, Suez Canal, Panama Canal, Bab el-Mandeb, and Bosporus/Turkish Straits are all extremely critical and vulnerable LOCs. Disruptions at any one of these chokepoints could interrupt a significant percentage of the world’s daily requirement for fuel. The Straits of Hormuz is the world’s most important oil chokepoint, with over 17 million barrels of oil passing through it every day. That equates to roughly 40% of all seaborne traded oil and more than 20% of oil traded worldwide. At its narrowest point, the straits are 21 miles wide, and the shipping lanes consist of two-mile wide channels for inbound and outbound tanker traffic, as well as a two-mile wide buffer zone. In early 2009, the U.S. DoD Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics (AT&L), Dr. Ashton Carter, testified to Congress that “protecting large fuel convoys imposes a huge burden on the combat forces.” He went on to say that “reducing the fuel demand would move the department more towards efficient force structure by enabling more combat forces supported by fewer logistics assets, reducing operating costs, and mitigating budget effects caused by fuel price volatility.” At the U.S. Marines Corps’ (USMC) 2009 Energy Summit, Commandant General James Conway identified fuel convoy security in Afghanistan as one of his most pressing problems related to risk of casualties. General Conway said he was in the process of reorganizing the USMC/Headquarters (HQ) staff to better address energy problems and to more clearly focus on energy efficiency. During that conference, the U.S. Secretary of the Navy, the Honorable Ray Mabus, made the same comment regarding his U.S. Navy HQ staff. On any given day, the U.S. military hosts a substantial forward contingent abroad, serving in strategically critical support missions. Since the conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq began in 2001 and 2003, respectively, the amount of oil consumption at forward bases has increased tenfold. Every forward operating base (FOB) in Afghanistan requires a minimum of 300 gallons of diesel daily to satisfy its requirements. A typical USMC combat brigade alone requires over 500,000 gallons of fuel per day. High fuel requirements in forward deployed locations present the military with a significant logistical burden. More importantly, the transport of this fuel via truck convoy represents casualty risks, not only from IEDs and enemy attacks, but also rough weather, traffic accidents, and pilferage. DoD officials reported that in June 2008 alone, a combination of these factors caused the loss of some 44 trucks and 220,000 gallons of fuel. The following pictures illustrate the logistical difficulty in fuel transport and distribution in theaters of war. They dramatically illustrate the magnitude, vulnerability, and conditions that the operation consists of in the type of expeditionary warfare experienced in the last 20 years. According to a 2001 Defense Science Board (DSB) report, over 70% of the tonnage required to position today’s U.S. Army into battle is fuel. With the logistics, fuel convoys and distribution requirements to transport fuel into battle, it is not surprising that U.S. adversaries are targeting one of its most vulnerable assets. In addition, the number of fuel convoys — trucks traveling over unimproved roads in remote areas — has skyrocketed in the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts, in order to supply the engines of the personnel carriers, camp generators, jeeps, tanks and other equipment requiring a continuous oil supply to operate. Between July 2003 and May 2009, IEDs accounted for some 43% of U.S. fatalities in Iraq. For many months between 2005 and 2008, the IED-related fatality rate exceeded 50% (as seen in the chart below). Convoys, whose primary tonnage is fuel, represent a substantial target of IED-related assaults. Over the past five fiscal years (FY 2005 through FY 2009), IEDs accounted for about 38% of U.S. fatalities in Afghanistan. In contrast to the situation in Iraq where IED related U.S. casualties declined both in absolute numbers and as a percentage of total U.S. casualties beginning in the second half of 2007, the situation in Afghanistan has only worsened, both in absolute numbers and as a percentage of total U.S. fatalities, as seen in the chart below. Indeed, the total U.S. IED-related fatalities in Afghanistan for just the two months of July and August 2009 were 50% higher than they were for the entirety of FY 2007. For FY 2009, IEDs will likely have accounted for slightly more than half of all U.S. fatalities in Afghanistan. Furthermore, the following chart correlates the number of total U.S. casualties in Afghanistan — killed in action and wounded — from 2002 through the present, to the increasing consumption of fuel by U.S. forces. This demonstrates that the number of convoys required to transport an ever increasing requirement for fossil fuels is itself a root cause of casualties, both wounded and killed in action. As mentioned, the use of improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and roadside bombs by U.S. adversaries has been an especially effective means to disable friendly fighting forces by disrupting their supply of energy. The chart shows that the current Afghan conflict may result in a 124% increase in U.S. casualties through 2014 (17.5% CAGR), should the war be prosecuted with a similar profile to Operation Iraqi Freedom. Beyond the danger to lives — the most important issue raised here — there is the issue of cost. Beyond the basic purchase cost of fuel are other ‘hidden’ costs, including maintaining fuel transport equipment, training personnel, and maintaining and protecting the oil supply chain. The military currently pays between $2 and $3 per gallon for fuel depending on market conditions. The process of getting the fuel to its intended destination, even assuming that no protection is provided to the convoys during transport, increases the cost to nearly $15 a gallon. Protection of fuel convoys in combat zones requires an enormous show of force in the form of armored vehicles, helicopters, and fixed wing aircraft, forcing costs even higher. Protecting fuel convoys from the ground and air costs the DoD upward of 15 times the actual purchase cost of fuel, depending on the level of protection required by the convoy and the current market prices of the fuel commodity. Fuel costs grow exponentially as the delivery distance increases or when force protection is provided from air. The following chart illustrates the fully burdened costs of fuel and shows how high the cost is to protect and transport this fuel to its final destination, bringing the cost per gallon to almost $45 per gallon, compared to the average cost at the retail gas pump of approximately $3 per gallon in 2009. The business case for alternative energy development has rested first on the concept of a sustainable planet, resulting in reductions in hydrocarbons and other harmful emissions in the creation and use of fossil fuels. With the dramatic rise in the price of oil seen in 2008, and increased recognition that the oil supply may be limited, the business case has shifted emphasis to the economic benefit for developing and using renewable energy sources. This study demonstrates that the development and use of alternative energy can be a direct cause for reductions in wartime casualties and may rank on par with the business cases for development of ever more effective offensive weapons, sophisticated fuel transport tankers, mine resistant armored vehicles, and net-centric sensing technologies. Aerospace and Defense firms, their government customers, and research labs around the world are well positioned to accelerate the development and deployment of such technologies.

Now our impacts:
US leadership is crucial to global peace and preventing multiple nuclear wars
Kagan ’11 (The Price of Power The benefits of U.S. defense spending far outweigh the costs Jan 24, 2011, Vol. 16, No. 18 • By ROBERT KAGAN Robert Kagan is a contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution.

Today the international situation is also one of high risk. • The terrorists who would like to kill Americans on U.S. soil constantly search for safe havens from which to plan and carry out their attacks. American military actions in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, Yemen, and elsewhere make it harder for them to strike and are a large part of the reason why for almost a decade there has been no repetition of September 11. To the degree that we limit our ability to deny them safe haven, we increase the chances they will succeed. • American forces deployed in East Asia and the Western Pacific have for decades prevented the outbreak of major war, provided stability, and kept open international trading routes, making possible an unprecedented era of growth and prosperity for Asians and Americans alike. Now the United States faces a new challenge and potential threat from a rising China which seeks eventually to push the U.S. military’s area of operations back to Hawaii and exercise hegemony over the world’s most rapidly growing economies. Meanwhile, a nuclear-armed North Korea threatens war with South Korea and fires ballistic missiles over Japan that will someday be capable of reaching the west coast of the United States. Democratic nations in the region, worried that the United States may be losing influence, turn to Washington for reassurance that the U.S. security guarantee remains firm. If the United States cannot provide that assurance because it is cutting back its military capabilities, they will have to choose between accepting Chinese dominance and striking out on their own, possibly by building nuclear weapons. • In the Middle East, Iran seeks to build its own nuclear arsenal, supports armed radical Islamic groups in Lebanon and Palestine, and has linked up with anti-American dictatorships in the Western Hemisphere. The prospects of new instability in the region grow every day as a decrepit regime in Egypt clings to power, crushes all moderate opposition, and drives the Muslim Brotherhood into the streets. A nuclear-armed Pakistan seems to be ever on the brink of collapse into anarchy and radicalism. Turkey, once an ally, now seems bent on an increasingly anti-American Islamist course. The prospect of war between Hezbollah and Israel grows, and with it the possibility of war between Israel and Syria and possibly Iran. There, too, nations in the region increasingly look to Washington for reassurance, and if they decide the United States cannot be relied upon they will have to decide whether to succumb to Iranian influence or build their own nuclear weapons to resist it. In the 1990s, after the Soviet Union had collapsed and the biggest problem in the world seemed to be ethnic conflict in the Balkans, it was at least plausible to talk about cutting back on American military capabilities. In the present, increasingly dangerous international environment, in which terrorism and great power rivalry vie as the greatest threat to American security and interests, cutting military capacities is simply reckless. Would we increase the risk of strategic failure in an already risky world, despite the near irrelevance of the defense budget to American fiscal health, just so we could tell American voters that their military had suffered its “fair share” of the pain? The nature of the risk becomes plain when one considers the nature of the cuts that would have to be made to have even a marginal effect on the U.S. fiscal crisis. Many are under the illusion, for instance, that if the United States simply withdrew from Iraq and Afghanistan and didn’t intervene anywhere else for a while, this would have a significant impact on future deficits. But, in fact, projections of future massive deficits already assume the winding down of these interventions.Withdrawal from the two wars would scarcely make a dent in the fiscal crisis. Nor can meaningful reductions be achieved by cutting back on waste at the Pentagon—which Secretary of Defense Gates has already begun to do and which has also been factored into deficit projections. If the United States withdrew from Iran and Afghanistan tomorrow, cut all the waste Gates can find, and even eliminated a few weapons programs—all this together would still not produce a 10 percent decrease in overall defense spending. In fact, the only way to get significant savings from the defense budget—and by “significant,” we are still talking about a tiny fraction of the cuts needed to bring down future deficits—is to cut force structure: fewer troops on the ground; fewer airplanes in the skies; fewer ships in the water; fewer soldiers, pilots, and sailors to feed and clothe and provide benefits for. To cut the size of the force, however, requires reducing or eliminating the missions those forces have been performing. Of course, there are any number of think tank experts who insist U.S. forces can be cut by a quarter or third or even by half and still perform those missions. But this is snake oil. Over the past two decades, the force has already been cut by a third. Yet no administration has reduced the missions that the larger force structures of the past were designed to meet. To fulfill existing security commitments, to remain the “world’s power balancer of choice,” as Leslie Gelb puts it, to act as “the only regional balancer against China in Asia, Russia in eastern Europe, and Iran in the Middle East” requires at least the current force structure, and almost certainly more than current force levels. Those who recommend doing the same with less are only proposing a policy of insufficiency, where the United States makes commitments it cannot meet except at high risk of failure. The only way to find substantial savings in the defense budget, therefore, is to change American strategy fundamentally. The Simpson-Bowles commission suggests as much, by calling for a reexamination of America’s “21st century role,” although it doesn’t begin to define what that new role might be. Others have. For decades “realist” analysts have called for a strategy of “offshore balancing.” Instead of the United States providing security in East Asia and the Persian Gulf, it would withdraw its forces from Japan, South Korea, and the Middle East and let the nations in those regions balance one another. If the balance broke down and war erupted, the United States would then intervene militarily until balance was restored. In the Middle East and Persian Gulf, for instance, Christopher Layne has long proposed “passing the mantle of regional stabilizer” to a consortium of “Russia, China, Iran, and India.” In East Asia offshore balancing would mean letting China, Japan, South Korea, Australia, and others manage their own problems, without U.S. involvement—again, until the balance broke down and war erupted, at which point the United States would provide assistance to restore the balance and then, if necessary, intervene with its own forces to restore peace and stability. Before examining whether this would be a wise strategy, it is important to understand that this really is the only genuine alternative to the one the United States has pursued for the past 65 years. To their credit, Layne and others who support the concept of offshore balancing have eschewed halfway measures and airy assurances that we can do more with less, which are likely recipes for disaster. They recognize that either the United States is actively involved in providing security and stability in regions beyond the Western Hemisphere, which means maintaining a robust presence in those regions, or it is not. Layne and others are frank in calling for an end to the global security strategy developed in the aftermath of World War II, perpetuated through the Cold War, and continued by four successive post-Cold War administrations. At the same time, it is not surprising that none of those administrations embraced offshore balancing as a strategy. The idea of relying on Russia, China, and Iran to jointly “stabilize” the Middle East and Persian Gulf will not strike many as an attractive proposition. Nor is U.S. withdrawal from East Asia and the Pacific likely to have a stabilizing effect on that region. The prospects of a war on the Korean Peninsula would increase. Japan and other nations in the region would face the choice of succumbing to Chinese hegemony or taking unilateral steps for self-defense, which in Japan’s case would mean the rapid creation of a formidable nuclear arsenal. Layne and other offshore balancing enthusiasts, like John Mearsheimer, point to two notable occasions when the United States allegedly practiced this strategy. One was the Iran-Iraq war, where the United States supported Iraq for years against Iran in the hope that the two would balance and weaken each other. The other was American policy in the 1920s and 1930s, when the United States allowed the great European powers to balance one another, occasionally providing economic aid, or military aid, as in the Lend-Lease program of assistance to Great Britain once war broke out. Whether this was really American strategy in that era is open for debate—most would argue the United States in this era was trying to stay out of war not as part of a considered strategic judgment but as an end in itself. Even if the United States had been pursuing offshore balancing in the first decades of the 20th century, however, would we really call that strategy a success? The United States wound up intervening with millions of troops, first in Europe, and then in Asia and Europe simultaneously, in the two most dreadful wars in human history. It was with the memory of those two wars in mind, and in the belief that American strategy in those interwar years had been mistaken, that American statesmen during and after World War II determined on the new global strategy that the United States has pursued ever since. Under Franklin Roosevelt, and then under the leadership of Harry Truman and Dean Acheson, American leaders determined that the safest course was to build “situations of strength” (Acheson’s phrase) in strategic locations around the world, to build a “preponderance of power,” and to create an international system with American power at its center. They left substantial numbers of troops in East Asia and in Europe and built a globe-girdling system of naval and air bases to enable the rapid projection of force to strategically important parts of the world. They did not do this on a lark or out of a yearning for global dominion. They simply rejected the offshore balancing strategy, and they did so because they believed it had led to great, destructive wars in the past and would likely do so again. They believed their new global strategy was more likely to deter major war and therefore be less destructive and less expensive in the long run. Subsequent administrations, from both parties and with often differing perspectives on the proper course in many areas of foreign policy, have all agreed on this core strategic approach. From the beginning this strategy was assailed as too ambitious and too expensive. At the dawn of the Cold War, Walter Lippmann railed against Truman’s containment strategy as suffering from an unsustainable gap between ends and means that would bankrupt the United States and exhaust its power. Decades later, in the waning years of the Cold War, Paul Kennedy warned of “imperial overstretch,” arguing that American decline was inevitable “if the trends in national indebtedness, low productivity increases, [etc.]” were allowed to continue at the same time as “massive American commitments of men, money and materials are made in different parts of the globe.” Today, we are once again being told that this global strategy needs to give way to a more restrained and modest approach, even though the indebtedness crisis that we face in coming years is not caused by the present, largely successful global strategy. Of course it is precisely the success of that strategy that is taken for granted. The enormous benefits that this strategy has provided, including the financial benefits, somehow never appear on the ledger. They should. We might begin by asking about the global security order that the United States has sustained since Word War II—the prevention of major war, the support of an open trading system, and promotion of the liberal principles of free markets and free government. How much is that order worth? What would be the cost of its collapse or transformation into another type of order? Whatever the nature of the current economic difficulties, the past six decades have seen a greater increase in global prosperity than any time in human history. Hundreds of millions have been lifted out of poverty. Once-backward nations have become economic dynamos. And the American economy, though suffering ups and downs throughout this period, has on the whole benefited immensely from this international order. One price of this success has been maintaining a sufficient military capacity to provide the essential security underpinnings of this order. But has the price not been worth it? In the first half of the 20th century, the United States found itself engaged in two world wars. In the second half, this global American strategy helped produce a peaceful end to the great-power struggle of the Cold War and then 20 more years of great-power peace. Looked at coldly, simply in terms of dollars and cents, the benefits of that strategy far outweigh the costs. The danger, as always, is that we don’t even realize the benefits our strategic choices have provided. Many assume that the world has simply become more peaceful, that great-power conflict has become impossible, that nations have learned that military force has little utility, that economic power is what counts. This belief in progress and the perfectibility of humankind and the institutions of international order is always alluring to Americans and Europeans and other children of the Enlightenment. It was the prevalent belief in the decade before World War I, in the first years after World War II, and in those heady days after the Cold War when people spoke of the “end of history.” It is always tempting to believe that the international order the United States built and sustained with its power can exist in the absence of that power, or at least with much less of it. This is the hidden assumption of those who call for a change in American strategy: that the United States can stop playing its role and yet all the benefits that came from that role will keep pouring in. This is a great if recurring illusion, the idea that you can pull a leg out from under a table and the table will not fall over.


Russian and Chinese militarization is inevitable. A weakened American military invites those nations to engage in aggressive foreign policy
Talent and Hall, March 2010 (Jim - distinguished fellow in government relations at the Heritage Foundation, and Heath, Sowing the Wind, p. [[http://www.freedomsolutions.org/2010/03/sowing-the-wind-the-decay-of-american-power-and-its-consequences/]])
C. THE EMERGENCE OF RUSSIA AND CHINA AS REGIONAL SUPERPOWERS The last few years have seen the reemergence of Russia and China as regional superpowers. Both nations have strong militaries in which they are heavily investing,[43] substantial—and in China’s case—growing economies,[44] demonstrated indifference to human rights,[45] authoritarian regimes that show no signs of becoming democratic and—in Russia’s case—is moving away from democracy,[46] and nationalistic ambitions that are at odds with their neighbors and the United States.[47] Russia and China have been significantly increasing military spending;[48] and unlike the United States, which must pay high manpower costs to sustain a volunteer military, can spend their defense budget mostly on modernizing and procuring their weapons programs.[49] Russia increased military spending by approximately 30% in 2007, 27% in 2006, and 22% in 2005.[50] It is modernizing its submarine fleet and building new short and long-range ballistic missiles. It has highly developed cyber weapon capability,[51] and its army and navy performed far above expectations in the recent invasion of Georgia.[52] The Russians have threatened to use energy as a weapon against Europe and certainly could do so;[53] they control half of the natural gas Europe receives and are promoting an international natural gas cartel similar to OPEC.[54] Russia is building Iran’s nuclear reactor[55] and has systematically obstructed international attempts to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.[56] It has sold sophisticated weapons to Iran,[57] Syria,[58] and Venezuela,[59] and it has long been the source of China’s most sophisticated weaponry, including advanced fighter aircraft and carrier killer supersonic missiles.[60] Russia is controlled by a man—Vladimir Putin—who announced to his Parliament in 2005 that the most tragic event of the 20th century was the collapse of the Soviet Union.[61] China admits to spending approximately $60 billion per year on its military, and to increasing spending by an average of 17% to 18% each year.[62] American intelligence believes that China’s expenditures are actually two to three times higher than it admits.[63] China has money to spend on its armed forces; its economy is growing exponentially, and within the next decade China will have the largest industrial sector in the world.[64] China believes its national interests are served by promoting proliferation, tyranny, and even genocide. It is committing ethnic genocide itself in Tibet,[65] and is supporting genocide in Sudan,[66] oppression in Burma,[67] repression and political terror in Zimbabwe,[68] and nuclear proliferation in North Korea and Iran.[69] China has threatened Taiwan militarily on numerous occasions,[70] and its current military doctrine and procurement policies are aimed at excluding American naval power from the Western Pacific[71] and particularly the Straits of Taiwan.[72] China has an arsenal of submarines armed with carrier killer missiles which it purchased from the Russians,[73] as well as sophisticated fighters;[74] and it is rapidly building up a fleet of modern nuclear submarines, [75] for which it has opened up a base on the island of Hainan.[76] China is ruled by an authoritarian oligarchy that has shown the resiliency to survive the introduction of something like freedom into its economic system. Like Vladimir Putin, the Chinese leaders believe that asserting themselves abroad is a way of unifying their people and stabilizing the regime. In addition, and again like Russia, the Chinese have a history of dominating their part of the world.[77] The Russians and the Chinese have formed a cooperative organization and held unprecedented joint military maneuvers in 2005[78] and again in 2008. They will undoubtedly continue to pursue their national ambitions, particularly in Asia, Eastern Europe, and the former states of the Soviet Union;[79] whether or not they use aggressive tactics depends, as a threshold matter, on their perception of the deterrent strength of the United States.
US/China war results in extinction The Straits Times, 6/25/2000 (Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan, p. lexis) THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China. If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and near and -- horror of horrors -- raise the possibility of a nuclear war. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. If China were to retaliate, east Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe’s political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a new and dangerous phase. Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -- truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, there is little hope of winning a war against China 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its “non first use” principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilisation.


Statistical evidence shows power transitions explain 80% of war occurrence
Efird, Kugler, and Genna ’03 member of the Sentia Group --- and --- Professor of IR at Claremont Graduate U – and --- Prof of political science at Winona State University (Brian, Jacek, and Gaspare, FROM WAR TO INTEGRATION: GENERALIZING POWERTRANSITION THEORY, International Interactions, 29:293–313, 2003

Since our interest is in developing a closer description of the dynamic process driving the likelihood of war and peace, we choose instead to use annual data to more precisely capture the changes in relative power in relation to the likelihood of war and peace. The first test focuses on Great Power dyad-years from 1816–1992. We use the definition of Great Powers established by the MIDs data set (Jones, Bremer, and Singer, 1996), which are the top 5 nations in the world system at any given time. This test evaluates the fit of the model to the original propositions generated for the global region. The second test focuses on all dyads including all politically relevant minor powers—assessing the general explanatory power of our specification for the global and regional hierarchies. This section focuses on the application of our specification to the degree of conflict and integration. We estimate the following statistical model: CI = β1•RP – β2•S•(RP3) + β3•RPc*Hc + β4•RPd*Hd + ε The constant term is excluded to conform more closely to the proposed specification. We present the results for only this specification in this article for simplicity. Efird (2001) provides a comprehensive sensitivity analysis on both the data used to measure each of these variables and the constant term. Table 2 presents the results for Great Powers in Model 1 and all politically relevant dyads in Model 2. The results demonstrate that this characterization successfully accounts for the incidence of both conflict and integration over the last two centuries. The adjusted R2 shows that the model explains over 80 percent of the variance for both the global and regional hierarchies. All coefficients take the expected sign, are highly significant, and have relatively small standard errors. The relative power term is positive and highly significant. This confirms the implication that challengers are more likely to initiate as they grow larger vis-à-vis the defender. Again as anticipated, in both levels of aggregation the interactive term is negative and is also highly significant. This suggests that while relative power is more important, challenges occur in the presence of dissatisfaction and parity, and integration occurs in the presence of asymmetry and high levels of satisfaction— particularly after a power overtaking. As expected, the hierarchy terms are positive and highly significant. The coefficient for the defender’s hierarchy constraint is much larger than for the challenger’s hierarchy constraint, demonstrating that regional hierarchies affect defenders more than challengers. This result flows naturally from the argument that defenders are risk averse, and therefore more likely to respond to regional constraints than are challengers, who are risk acceptant since they have more to gain from a reordering of the status quo (Kugler and Zagare, 1990).

===Solvency=== 
Contention 2 is Solvency
Solar Power Satellites are cheap, feasible, and could be produced by 2020
Lior 11, Noam Lior, University of Pennsylvania, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, Philadelphia, PA, April 2011 “Solar orbital power: Sustainability analysis”, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544210005931]], Date accessed June 24, 2011

We have analyzed some economic, environmental and social aspects of sustainability for electricity production in solar space power plants using current technology. While space solar power is still way too expensive for launches from the Earth, there are several technological possibilities to reduce this price. For a large scale application of orbital power stations both environmental impact and costs can be significantly reduced. The first option is to build and employ reusable space vehicles for launching the satellites, instead of rockets, which is the main recommendation by NASA, and the second option is to build the satellites and rockets in space (e.g. on the Moon). An old NASA estimate shows that this would be economical for as few as 30 orbital satellites with 300 GWe of total power [17]. The costs could be even further reduced, if the first satellite is launched into the low Earth orbit, and then uses its produced energy to lift itself into a higher GEO orbit or even to the Moon [35]. If the satellites and rockets are then built on the Moon in robotic factories, we estimate that:- The environmental impact of the orbital solar power plants would become significantly lower than for any Earth-based power plant except perhaps nuclear fusion. Measured by CO2 emissions, it would be about 0.5 kg per W of useful power, and this number would even decrease with improved technology and larger scope;- The production cost of the orbital solar power plants could also become significantly lower than for any Earth-based power plant except perhaps nuclear fusion. It is estimated as about US $1 per W of useful power, and would also decrease with improved technology and larger scope;- The social impact of cheap and clean energy from space is more difficult to estimate, because space power satellites seem to be connected to a significant loss of jobs. It is however difficult to estimate the benefits of a large amount of cheap clean energy, which would most likely more than offset the negative effects of lost jobs, and we estimate that about 3 jobs would be created in the economy per 1 MW of installed useful power. One could therefore expect a net positive effect of solar power satellites on sustainability. These effects seem to be the most positive, if thermal power satellites are used, which are built in a robotic factory on the Moon and then launched into the GEO orbit. The concept presented in this paper has some significant advantages over many other proposed concepts for large scale energy production on Earth. For example, nuclear fusion promises to become a clean and cheap source of energy, however even in the best case scenario it can’t become operational before 2040. Solar orbital power concept can become operational in less than a decade and produce large amounts of energy in two decades. It is also important that the price as well as environmental impact of solar orbital power are expected to decrease with scale. In addition to expected increase in employment this makes solar orbital power an important alternative to other sustainable energy sources.


And, SPS is feasible – new solar panel tech solves concerns
NSS ’11, National Space Society, July 13, 2011, [[http://www.nss.org/]] , accessed July 18, 2011, DKreus
According to National Space Society Director Al Globus, the development of thin-film solar cells may bring the reality of space solar power closer than ever. Solar power originated roughly 50 years ago to power the satellites just beginning to orbit the Earth. From those roots it spawned a terrestrial-based power industry. Ironically, the same technology has, until recently, been prohibitively expensive for space based solar power. Thin-film solar cells are now changing the equation. The terrestrial solar power industry relies upon a type of photovoltaics that uses a crystalline structure. Manufacturing costs of crystalline PV modules over the past few decades has decreased substantially. Combined with the ability to assemble each unit in a modular fashion, crystalline. Industry people measure the effectiveness of a solar cell by its specific power, or output per weight. The unit of measurement is Watts per Kilogram (W/kg). The goal is to achieve 1000 W/kg. Recently, thin-film photovoltaics have exceeded this critical point. Very thin (10-25 micrometers) metallic PV is now a viable source of power. Space solar power using crystalline photovoltaics is expensive because the mass is high and launch costs tend to dominate substrates can achieve and exceed the required specific power targets. According to Globus, this may bring space solar power within our grasp. Thin-film solar cells currently in use in space on the Ikaros solar sail achieve approximately 1,250 w/kg for power generation. However, this does not include the rest of the system (power beaming, ground receivers, etc.). Using current day technology, a thin-film based PowerSat could probably achieve around 275 w/kg. If we assume a reasonable R&D program to develop the basic technologies, it appears that 1,380 w/kg can be achieved in a reasonable time scale.

Wireless power transmission works – no risk of inefficiency
Matai ‘10, DK Matai, chairman of Holistic Quantum Relativity Socratic Dialogue, chairman of the Philanthropia, chairman of the Asymmetric Threats Contingency Alliance (ATCA), global head of innovation, chief software architect, and CEO at mi2g (global Information Technology and Services company), expert on energy production and engineering, PhD in high performance computing from Imperial College London, 6-13-10, “Japan Takes Lead In Wireless Power? 21stC Global Energy Supply”, [[http://www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/frameset.php?pageid=http%3A//www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/press/130610.php]], DKreus

Reducing Losses via WPT One of the major issues in global power systems is the loss which occurs during the transmission and distribution of electrical power. As the demand increases day by day, the power generation increases and the power loss is also increased. The percentage of loss of power during transmission and distribution is approximated at 25% or much higher. The main reason for power loss during transmission and distribution is the resistance of wires used for the grid. The efficiency of power transmission can be improved to a certain extent by using high strength composite over head conductors and underground cables that use high temperature super conductors. But the transmission is still inefficient. WPT can significantly reduce the terrestrial losses by providing a highly efficient quantum jump -- near 10% pickup in efficiency -- for alternative energy power transfer and distribution. That is an important incremental step because it also allows for the extension of electricity to transportation. One could simply argue that the less fuel that is used in transportation the safer, greener, and more efficient we get. This is a positive by itself, because of the incremental nature of the gains. USA: NASA and DoE In the US, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the Department of Energy (DoE) have spent significant sums over three decades in not so coherent -- somewhat sporadic -- efforts to study solar generation in space, according to a 2007 report by the US National Security Space Office. The deployment of WPT was not effectively pursued until the 1960s when the US Air Force funded the development of a microwave-powered helicopter platform. A successful demonstration of a microwave beam-riding helicopter was performed in 1965. This demonstration proved that a WPT system could be constructed and that effective microwave generators and receivers could be developed for efficient conversion of microwaves into DC electricity. In 1975, a successful demonstration of microwave wireless power transmissions was performed at the NASA Deep Space Antenna facility at Goldstone, California. In this demonstration of point-to-point WPT, 30 kW of microwaves were beamed over a distance of one mile to a receiving antenna. Microwaves were converted directly into DC at an average efficiency of 82%, confounding critics who claimed that such high conversion efficiencies could not be achieved. By 1976 engineering, environmental, and economic analyses of several Solar Power Satellite (SPS) concepts had been performed by NASA. WPT systems have not been considered seriously for civilian purposes by US government agencies since 1980. However, the mood has been changing in favour of WPT in recent years. However, nascent efforts in regard to Space Solar Power (SSP) and WPT by NASA are likely to be trimmed by the recent focus on budget deficit reductions.

Demonstration solves – it catalyzes the private sector Karen Cramer
Shea, Research and Technology Directorate NASA Langley Research Center, Attendee of the International Space University Summer Session, Winter 2010, Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power Satellites, “Why Has SPS R&D Received So Little Funding?,” , ([[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html)Space|http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html)]]

Space solar power technology is still in its infancy because of the lack of R&D funding and the absence of agency leadership. Since Dr. Peter E. Glaser came up with the idea for solar power satellites in 1968, this important solution to our global energy crisis has received only an estimated $80 million[1] in research funding. Both NASA and the DOE have had space solar power research programs but these have all been disbanded. How can agency interest in and funding for SSP be increased and sustained? How can launch costs be r educed sufficiently to make space solar power self-supporting so that agency support is no longer needed? Historical Perspective Over 40 years ago, Dr. Glaser of Arthur D. Little Company first proposed the concept of placing satellites in geosynchronous orbit to collect energy from the Sun for the purpose of transmitting the energy back to the earth. Possible implementation of Dr. Glaser's idea was studied by DOE and NASA during the 1970's. In 1975, the Goldstone Deep Space Communications Complex did experiments in wireless power transmission. In 1999, NASA undertook further review of space solar power. In 2007, the Pentagon's National Security Space Office issued a report on space based solar power that included a discussion of its use to power forward military bases. In 2008, the Discovery Channel aired a television documentary featuring John Mankins and his Japanese colleagues testing wireless power transmission between two Hawaiian Islands, a key space solar power technology. In 2009, Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E) announced an agreement to buy 2000 MW of space solar power starting in 2016.[4] Also in 2009, the Japanese made SSP a national priority and indicated they may spend $21 billion to build a space solar power satellite over the next 30 years.[5] The United States is estimated to have invested $80 Million (adjusted for inflation) studying SPS since the idea was first proposed. This includes funding from DOE and NASA for 3 years during the 1970's[2] and the NASA funding in 1999 and 2000.[3] As a comparison, DOE is estimated to have invested $21 Billion in fusion energy research since the 1950s.[1] Space Solar Power has suffered from a policy dilemma. The Department of Defense (DOD) wants to use solar power satellites (SPS) to deliver electrical power to its forward military bases but that agency cannot build them, since SPS is clearly not in its mission. The DOD is developing lasers and microwave beams for offensive military purposes, but taking a lead in using lasers and microwaves for the beaming of electrical power would be politically unacceptable. The DOD is very interested in being an SSP customer because this satellite energy application would dramatically improve efficiency and reduce costs of supplying power to its troops in the field. Another consideration is in reducing costs in lives, as the generator fuel trucks are easy targets. Space solar power has been studied by both NASA and the DOE. Unfortunately, NASA considers SSP to be an energy issue and the DOE considers it to be a space issue. Neither is currently funding SSP research. Added to this, NASA is in crisis with the retirement of the Space Shuttle, while trying to operate the International Space Station and return to the Moon with a launch system that is behind schedule, over budget and losing capability. The 2009 Augustine Committee called for a $3 billion increase in the NASA budget just to keep up with its current commitments. NASA clearly cannot take the lead in SPS research and development. In the past, DOE has been interested in nuclear technology because of its connection to defense and DOE was interested in distributed systems for renewable energy. Now the DOE is putting emphasis on clean coal and biofuels. DOE has not shown any renewed interest in Solar Power Satellites. The DOE thinks launch costs are too high to ever be profitable, and space solar power is unproven both in terms of commercial viability and safety. To confirm safety and commercial viability requires funding. Many groups are working on reducing launch costs. SSP development should be funded in anticipation of launch cost reductions. Current Situation The timing would seem ideal for securing SPS development funding in today's world situation. Energy prices are rising at the same time that the demand for energy is increasing. Public and scientific concerns about climate change are growing based on current levels of carbon dioxide, accelerating in the burning of fossil fuels to meet energy requirements. Cap and Trade legislation and renewable energy mandates are being proposed. Also to be mentioned is the Japanese plan to spend $21 Billion on space solar power development and the Solaren contract in California with the utility Pacific Gas and Electric to deliver 200 megawatts of electrical energy from space starting in 2016. The questions now about SPS are mainly not if but specifically who, what, when, where and how best? For example, is solar voltaic or solar thermal the most efficient approach? Which are the best types of solar collectors to use? Which types of solar cells best balance cost, mass and durability issues? Which is the best wireless transmission method: lasers or microwaves? Where and how do we best build the receiving stations? What manufacturing techniques are most scalable? Which frequency is best for power beaming considering size, electronics, atmospheric and International Telecommunications Union issues? What safety precautions need to be taken with SPS? How can we transmit the power from place to place safely, efficiently and economically? When in this century will the cost of energy rise high enough and Moore's law reduce the cost of the technology sufficiently for space solar power to be profitable? Who will control the SPS market? In 2050, will the U.S. be buying power from space from the Japanese or selling it to Saudi Arabia? Which U.S. agency, if any, will take charge of this issue and invest in space solar power? Proposed Solution Since neither the DOE nor NASA considers space solar power to be in its mandate and each refuses to fund its development, maybe it is time for Americans to consider whether there are other U.S. government agencies that might see these developments within their mandate. The Department of Commerce is an agency that deals with space and is concerned about the nation's energy future. The Commerce Department currently hosts the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), one of the world's largest civilian space agencies. Commerce is concerned with all aspects of the U.S. economy and energy definitely affects the US economy. The Department of Commerce is the perfect agency to take the lead on space solar power. From its Web site, one can see that Commerce's mission includes "promoting the Nation's economic and technological advancement," "strengthening the international economic position of the United States," "improving comprehension and uses of the physical environment," and "ensuring effective use and growth of the Nation's scientific and technical resources." Space solar power development will be key to U.S. future economic and technological development. SPS is an excellent example of a way to help strengthen our international economic position, to improve use of our physical environment and effectively exploit our scientific and technical resources. Space solar power is clearly within the mandate of the Department of Commerce. Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke is in a good position from which to champion space solar power development. He was the two-time governor of the State of Washington; thus is very aware of the importance of aerospace to the U.S. economy since Boeing is a pillar of the state's economy. He has strong leadership skills. The Commerce Department currently hosts the Office of Space Commercialization, National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), National Institute of Standards & Technology, National Telecommunications & Information Administration, National Technical Information Service and Economic Development Administration. All of these can be expected to contribute to and benefit from the effort to develop a system of Solar Power Satellites. The Office of Space Commercialization is presently the only civilian government group interested in space solar power. The Department of Commerce has a history of cooperation with both DOE and NASA. Today, NOAA works closely with NASA on its weather satellite launches. Gary Locke and Dr. Steven Chu, Secretary of the Department of Energy, work together well, making many joint appearances. If Commerce will fund SSP development, the issue of launch costs will still need to be addressed. Launching satellites and related materials into space has remained extremely expensive for decades because the current market isn't big enough to justify the major investment required to develop new technology. Given the potential size of this new energy source, it would make sense for the US government to put money into R&D. It would also help if the government subsidized launch costs for the first four full scale solar power satellites in return for a percent of the power produced for the life of the satellite. This could help to get the energy market moving in the direction of space. It may also help to address some of the power needs of our Department of Defense. To meet the demands of launching the components of four solar power satellites into geosynchronous orbit, the launch industry would have to rapidly up-size. Putting the power of the government behind this effort would assure development of improved facilities and technologies. Four satellites would allow the SSP technology to go through several generations of improvement while the market was being established. Once their capabilities are proven, with four electricity generating satellites in orbit, the industry will have a track record on which to secure investment capital for additional launches. It is hoped that because of the investment and new technologies applied launch costs will have been lowered. Significance Space solar power is stuck because of two dilemmas, the difficulty of finding an agency to fund space solar power and high launch costs. NASA considers space solar power to be energy and the Department of Energy considers space solar power to be space. Space solar power has such huge launch demands that present launch costs make it unaffordable. Part of the reason that launch costs are so high is that the launch market is small. Since the market for solar energy from space is huge, the U.S. government should subsidize the launch of the initial four solar power satellites to drive the launch industry to a new level of capability. The Department of Commerce should be given authority to take the lead in space solar power development. Space solar power has no serious technical issues standing in its way, but it is facing crippling policy dilemmas. By taking a new policy approach, we may be able to get out of a decades-long quagmire. Energy and space are within the mandate of the Department of Commerce. Help with the deployment of four full scale space solar power satellites will incentivize the launch industry to develop new technologies and more efficient techniques and facilities. The time is now for the development of space solar power. If the U.S. government commits to it as a matter of public policy, a new SPS industry will emerge, repaying the public investment many times over. If the U.S. does not do so, Japan, China, India or Russia will take the lead in space solar power development and the U.S. will continue to send billions of dollars a year abroad to insure that our energy needs are met.
==Cards Added (Glenbrooks+MBA)== 
And, placing SPS in elliptical orbit avoids solvency deficits – generates more energy and is cheaper
Jones ’10, [Winter 2010, Royce Jones, degrees in Constuction Management , Computer Programing, and Aided Design, also a Space Technology entrepreneur, venture manager, IP Developer, and investor; Alternative Orbits A New Space Solar Power Reference Design, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/jones.html]]; DKreus]
Such approaches are of course counterproductive because economically unviable concepts actually limit progress not only for power production but also in development of new launch vehicles and space infrastructures. While a few investigators were discussing LEO and MEO space-based solar power (SBSP) satellites as far back as the 1970s, their ideas have been largely pushed aside in favor of the GEO location. (Drummond, 1980) This illogical addiction to an unnecessary GEO infrastructure is the principal reason so little progress has been made in SBSP. The Problem Most solar power system placement proposals are intended for geosynchronous orbit. This is one reason the GEO solar power satellite (SPS) systems end up having an initial start up cost of tens of billions of dollars. The largest single cost of GEO solar power satellites is the cost of launching the components into orbit. The second largest cost is moving the components from low Earth orbit (LEO) to geostationary (GEO). The problem with GEO SPS is the 36,000 kilometer distance. This distance from Earth requires large microwave transmitters and large ground receivers. The great distance also results in very high launch costs due to the transmitter size and mass and the very real prospect of interference with the large number of communication satellites located there. As noted in Figure 4, the reason that the solar power satellite must be so large at GEO has to do with the physics of power beaming. The smaller the transmitter array, the larger is the angle of divergence of the transmitted beam. A highly divergent beam will spread out over a wide land area, and may be too weak to activate the rectenna. In order to obtain a sufficiently concentrated beam, more power must be collected and fed into a large transmitter array. Power beaming from geostationary orbit by microwaves has the added difficulty that the required “optical aperture” sizes must be very large. The 1978 NASA SPS study required a 1km diameter transmitting antenna, and a 10 km diameter receiving rectenna, for a microwave beam at 2.45 GHz frequencies. Alternative Orbits Due to the mass-to-orbit requirements for geosynchronous SPS, other options should be considered. As will be shown, the closer the orbit to the Earth the more efficient space solar power systems can be. But there is a serious limitation. The primary problem with solar power satellites in LEO or MEO is transmission time over the receiver. We think a solution can be found in the use of Elliptical Orbits. Due to the second Kepler law of planetary motion, the satellite spends about two thirds of the time near its apogee where it provides what is very close to a stationary perspective centered over the high latitudes. A powersat operating in a low Molniya orbit can achieve a utilization rate of 70 percent. While this is less than the 100 percent rate of GEO powersats, the mass reduction possible by being located closer to earth more than offsets the handicap of reduced transmission time by allowing for satellites that are smaller and lower cost, which also means the launch costs can be less expensive. Medium Earth Orbits: Given the physics of wireless power transmission, when compared to geosynchronous (GEO) orbit at 36,000 km, medium (MEO) Earth orbits located at 10,000 km or less, should permit considerable reductions in the size of both the solar power transmitter and the ground receiver. Furthermore, a smaller ground receiver is better suited to servicing such high-density markets as exist in Japan and Western Europe. If the technical, economic and societal viability of MEO systems can be demonstrated, then space-based solar power systems in LEO could also prove to be of major interest, when the satellites are as close as the International Space Station more or less 600 km above Earth. The first step in demonstrating either of these possibilities is to move away from past concepts based on solar power satellites stationed 36,000 km from Earth. Elliptical Orbits: A highly elliptical orbit (HEO) is characterized by a relatively low-altitude perigee and an extremely high-altitude apogee over Earth. An elongated orbit can have the advantage of long dwell times over the receiver during the approach to and descent from apogee. Bodies moving through the long apogee dwell can appear still in the sky to the ground when the orbit is at the right inclination, and when the angular velocity of the orbit in the equatorial plane closely matches the rotation of the surface beneath. Elliptical orbits are useful for communications satellites. Sirius Satellite Radio uses HEO orbits to keep two satellites positioned above North America while a third follow-on satellite quickly rounds the southern part of its 24-hour orbit. A solar power satellite placed in a 3 hour elliptical Molniya Orbit would have a utilization rate of 70%. SPS in Elliptical Orbit Successful SPS designs will be those that are technically feasible and economically affordable. One way to shorten time-to-term, and thereby alleviate some of these constraints, will be to look for a workable non-GEO orbit. The author suggests a highly elliptic 3-hour Molniya orbit. These SBSP satellites will generate zero pollution and zero emission energy. There is no logic to placing SBSP Satellites in GEO. The only advantage is the ability to constantly remain over one area on the Earth’s surface. Clearly, this advantage is not worth the massive increase in satellite mass that this single advantage gives. For example, the transmitter mass difference between GEO 24-hour orbit and a circular 12-hour orbit is 50 percent. The mass of the transmitter is cut in half simply by moving it closer to Earth, the ground receiver is half the size and the system is more economically viable. To deliver energy to ground receivers 24 hours per day, the design calls for two equal satellite systems spaced 12 hours apart providing coverage to two ground stations (Figure 6). Each satellite will host a transmitter one-fourth the size of the GEO system. To further reduce satellite transmitter and receiver mass, the powersats can operate in a 3-hour sub-Molniya orbit. This orbit is preferred because it provides more beam time per ground station than a circular orbit. Because the orbit is elliptical, the satellites slow down near apogee and speed up near perigee. This provides a “hang time” of about 2 hours over the receiver.

==Add-ons Read== 
===Japanese Nuclearization=== 
<span class="StyleTimesNewRoman12ptBold">Our Kagan evidence says that US credibility is key to check Japanese nuclearization – that causes nuclear war</span>
Rosen ’05, Stephen Rosen, Harvard College Professor and Beton Michael Kaneb Professor of National Security and Military Affairs at Harvard University, 2005. Foreign Affairs, “After Proliferation: What to Do If More States Go Nuclear,” p. Lexis

Historical evidence suggests that arms races sometimes ...those that would be posed by a nuclear Middle East.

===Free Trade=== 
Kagan says hegemony is key to maintain free trade – That solves war
CNS ’99, Copley News Service, December 1, 1999, “Commentary”

For decades, many children in America and other countries went to bed ... protesting world trade. They should be celebrating it.

===Reconstitution=== 
SSP solves aerospace launch capability – that’s k2 satellite reconstitution – that’s NSSO and Walker

Prevents ASAT attacks
Butterworth, ’08 - President, Aries Analytics, Inc. Fellow, George C. Marshall Institute (Robert, “Assuring Space Support Despite ASATs,” [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/575.pdf]]

Responses Satellites can be defended against some kinds ... scarcely be considered escalatory.

Nuclear war
Krepon, Hitchens and Katz-Hyman, ’11 [Michael Krepon = Director of the Space Security Project @ Stimson Center & President/CEO of the Henry L. Stimson Center, Theresa Hitchens is Director of World Security Institute’s Center for Defense Information, Michael Katz-Hyman is research associate for the Space Security. Project of the Henry L. Stimson Center. “Chapter 20: Preserving Freedom of Action in Space: Realizing the Potential and Limits of U.S. Spacepower”, Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]]

Second, the dilemma of the profound vulnerability of essential ... on their nuclear forces.
===Small Satellites=== 
Turn – small satellites The plan is key to small satellites and reconstitution
Ramos 2k (Kim, USAF Major and professor at the Air Command and Staff College Air University, “Solar Power Constellations Implications for the US Air Force.” April 2000.<[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_73510976-ad5e-4d5d-a51c-a7103406f67d/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]>)

As outlined in Air University … repositioning to meet warfighter requirements.

Independently, small satellites k2 victory in Afghanistan
(Mike, SPACE.com Senior Writer, “U.S. Army Wants Tiny Satellites as Orbital Spies,” 5-25-11, [[http://www.space.com/11771-military-space-army-tiny-spy-satellites.html]])

The United States Army is … and weighs just 9 pounds (4 kilograms).

Nuclear War
Carafano ’10, senior research fellow for national security at The Heritage Foundation and directs its Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, (James, “Obama must win fast in Afghanistan or risk new wars across the globe,” 1/2 [[http://gazettextra.com/news/2010/jan/02/con-obama-must-win-fast-afghanistan-or-risk-new-wa/)Not|http://gazettextra.com/news/2010/jan/02/con-obama-must-win-fast-afghanistan-or-risk-new-wa/)]]

Not much chance Obama will … into a very big, tragic war.


==2ACs== 
===AT: Space Militarization DA=== 
Space war with China now – new wikileaks prove
Sauser 11 (Brittany Sauser is a reporter and senior Web producer for Technology Space Shuttle Endeavour Lifts Off 02/03/2011 “Wikileaks Hints at U.S. and China Space Weapon Showdown” [[http://www.technologyreview.com/blog/deltav/26344/]] JT)

Documents released today show that anti-satellite ... about 150 miles above the Earth.

Weaponization inevitable but there’s no impact
Hoey 6 (Matthew Hoey is an Experienced International Security and Technology Consultant, Advisor at The Global Network Against Weapons and Nuclear Power in Space, Director at The Military Space Transparency Project. He is a former senior research associate at the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies (IDDS), a United Nations research organization. He served as the IDDS contributing editor for Amrs Control Reporter, specializing in nuclear forces, missile defense, military space systems and dual-use technologies. He has lectured at The Massachusetts Institute of Technology and MIT Science, Technology and Global Security Working Group. He was a prior consultant at The Secure World Foundation, Kurzweil Technologies, and United States Government. He graduated from Harvard University and Singularity University. February 27, 2006 “Military space systems: the road ahead” [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1]] JT)

Programs are in development, the defense ... defense system—should it be developed.

US perceived as developing space weapons now
Lasker 10 (John Lasker is a freelance journalist from Ohio. He has a new book out, "TECHNOIR: 13 Investigations from the Darkside of Technology". He specializes in cybewarfare and military technology, talking with Gagnon, director of the Global Network Against Weapons and Nuclear Power in Space. 27 May 2010 “US Space Weapon Now Circling the Globe” [[http://towardfreedom.com/home/content/view/1980/1/]] JT)

Like the X-37 and the Aurora, the Obama administration's future plans ... militarization, weaponization, and nuclearization of space."

XSS-11 is a space weapon with dual-use capabilities more offensive than the plan – proves their link nonunique
Hoey ’06 (Matthew Hoey is an Experienced International Security and Technology Consultant, Advisor at The Global Network Against Weapons and Nuclear Power in Space, Director at The Military Space Transparency Project. He is a former senior research associate at the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies (IDDS), a United Nations research organization. He served as the IDDS contributing editor for Amrs Control Reporter, specializing in nuclear forces, missile defense, military space systems and dual-use technologies. He has lectured at The Massachusetts Institute of Technology and MIT Science, Technology and Global Security Working Group. He was a prior consultant at The Secure World Foundation, Kurzweil Technologies, and United States Government. He graduated from Harvard University and Singularity University. February 27, 2006 “Military space systems: the road ahead” [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1]] JT)

Government development of military space systems is being accelerated specifically...could be tweaked into an anti-satellite weapon.

SPS isn’t a weapon and isn’t perceived as one
NSS 08 [NSS ‘8, National Space Society “Space-Based Solar Power,” Spring 2008, [[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]]

When first confronted with the idea of gigawatts of coherent energy ...conduct the research in an open environment.

SPS fosters international cooperation for the peaceful uses of outer space
Flourney et al 10 (Don, Professor at Online Journal of Space Communication, Scripps College of Communication, Ohio University, Athens, Robert Bell, Executive Director, Society of Satellite Professionals International, Mark Hopkins, Chairman, Executive Committee, National Space Society, Stephan Tennsel, Principal and CEO, Space Energy AG, Feng Hsu, Sr. VP of the Space Energy Group & Sr. Fellow of the Aerospace Technology Working Group, 7/13/10, International Cooperation in Space - Why Not Space Solar Power?,http://spaceenergy.com/AnnouncementRetrieve.aspx?ID=51945 THE JOEL LEE)


As members of the National Space Society...steps to bring space solar energy to earth.
===AT: SKFTA=== 
KORUS tanks US-Korea relations in the long term – reckless lawsuits and popular backlash
Jung-bae (member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Korea) 8/3 (Chun, 2011, U.S.-Korea trade deal is bad for both countries, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/foreign-policy/175169-us-korea-trade-deal-is-bad-for-both-countries]])

Contrary to the PR campaign by the Korean Embassy...country will only harm the Korea-U.S. relationship.

Passage of the FTA leads to SK adventurism and Asian conflicts
Lee and Kim ’09, Dong Sun Lee, Research Fellow, East West Center, Ph.D. Political Science, University of Chicago, and Sung Eun Kim, Research Fellow at the Asiatic Research Institute. "The Impact of a Free Trade Agreement on the U.S.-South Korean Alliance: A Theoretical and Empirical Assessment". Paper presented at the annual meeting of the ISA's 50th Annual Convention. February 15, 2009. [[http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/3/1/0/6/8/pages310681/p310681-1.php]]

In the long run, however, Seoul and Washington ...risks to its long enduring security alliance.

SK adventurism causes rapid escalation and nuclear war
Raska '10, Michael, Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the National University of Singapore, The Statesman "Why Can't South Korea Retaliate?" 11/25

However, this week’s North Korean artillery barrage on the Yeonpyeong Island...spillover into a broader regional crisis.

KORUS guts the economy
Jung-bae (member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Korea) 8/3 (Chun, 2011, U.S.-Korea trade deal is bad for both countries, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/foreign-policy/175169-us-korea-trade-deal-is-bad-for-both-countries]])

Moreover, this trade deal will have a negative impact on the middle-class ...and export that mistake to Korea.

Economic collapse causes global war
Auslin 9 – resident scholar at AEI (Michael “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2/6, [[http://www.aei.org/article/100044]]

As they deal with a collapsing world economy, policymakers in Washington and around the globe ...destroyed international systems in the past.

Doha will succeed now – it is only a question of effectiveness – leadership is key
Rueters 7/20, “U.S. Defends Doha Trade Strategy after Zoellick Barbs”, 7/20/2011, [[http://www.insurancejournal.com/news/international/2011/07/20/207130.htm]], DKreus

President Barack Obama’s administration on Tuesday fired ... framework can result in a successful outcome,” he said.

SKFTA kills multilateral trade
Bhagwati (professor of economics at Columbia) 7/25, (Jagdish, The Wrong Way to Free Trade, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/25/opinion/25bhagwati.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print]]), DKreus

LATE last week, a longstanding debate over free-trade agreements...unparalleled in other international institutions.

Multilateral trade makes war impossible
CNS ’99, Copley News Service, December 1, 1999, “Commentary”

For decades, many children in America and other countries ... shouldn't be protesting world trade. They should be celebrating it.
===AT: Ozone=== 
SPS won’t have a significant effect on the ozone layer.
Prado 02 Mark Prado, former advanced planner for Pentagon space program, 2002, “§ 5.12.3 Environmental Effects of SPSs on Earth” [[http://permanent.com/p-sps-bi.htm]]

Many people ask about the effects on the ozone layer of SPSs. Answer: none. The ... to Earth, even old satellites.

Solar energy from SPS would help mend the ozone.
Livestrong.com, 8-3-10, [[http://www.livestrong.com/article/192162-how-do-solar-panels-save-the-ozone-layer/Ozone|http://www.livestrong.com/article/192162-how-do-solar-panels-save-the-ozone-layer/]]

Ozone Benefits Ozone benefits the planet by acting as... company for more information.

Rockets have extremely minimal effect on ozone layer. Ross and Zittel, 00 [Martin Ross, Paul Zittel, staff writers for aerospace corporation magazine, [[http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html]Space|http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html]]]

Space transportation, once dominated by government, has... affecting the ozone layer today and to predict how they will affect it in the future.

Alt cause – cfcs cause the most ozone depletion
Coffey ’10 (Jerry Coffey, staff writer for Universe Today, 1/20/10, “Causes Of Ozone Depletion”, [[http://www.universetoday.com/51375/causes-of-ozone-depletion/)Chloroflourocarbons(CFC|http://www.universetoday.com/51375/causes-of-ozone-depletion/)]]

Chloroflourocarbons(CFC) are the ”big dog” as far as causes of ozone depletion... that they could stop using CFCs and HCFCs, also.

Alt causes – multiple alt causes
Wired.com, science section, 9-30-02, [[http://www.wired.com/science/discoveries/news/2002/09/55482The|http://www.wired.com/science/discoveries/news/2002/09/55482]]

The ozone hole over Antarctica is markedly... is also a key factor in ozone loss."

===AT: Security=== 
No prior questions—focus on critical theory makes it impossible to describe the world and act
Owen, ’02, David Owen, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7

Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that ‘[a] frenzy ... and so a potentially vicious circle arises.

Predictions are good enough to act on. Their critique sets the bar too high
Chernoff, ’09 (Fred, Prof. IR and Dir. IR – Colgate U., European Journal of International Relations, “Conventionalism as an Adequate Basis for Policy-Relevant IR Theory”, 15:1, Sage)

For these and other reasons, many social theorists and social...conclusions should be evident from the foregoing discussion.

And, studies prove conflicts have been decreasing – primacy is the reason
Drezner, international politics prof, 5—Daniel Drezner Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts U, BA from Williams, MA in Economics, PhD in Political Science from Stanford U (Daniel W., 25 May 2005, Gregg Easterbrook, war, and the dangers of extrapolation, [[http://www.danieldrezner.com/archives/002087.html]], )

Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, the Koreas staring at ...prospect of U.S. intervention would be equally daunting.

The alternative can’t solve the root cause of war – maintaining deterrence empirically key to reduce its likelihood
Moore ’04 – Dir. Center for Security Law @ University of Virginia, 7-time Presidential appointee, & Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law, Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace, John Norton Moore, pages 41-2.

If major interstate war is predominantly a product of a synergy ...deterrence are dramatically increased or decreased?

And, science is fact – the scientific method overwhelms investigative bias
DeGusta and Lewis, ’11, David DeGusta, at the Palaeoanthropology Institute in Oakland, CA, and Jason E. Lewis, in the anthropology department at Stanford University, CA, 7/23/11, “Taking the measure of Gould’s skulls”, New Scientist, No. 2822, print

Morton, though, had clear racial biases, which are stated explicitly in his books...biases. What a marvelous thing, this science.

Environmental security is good – only way to solve environmental problems
Barnett ’01, Research Council Fellow in the School of Social and Environmental Enquiry at the University of Melbourne, 2001 [Jon, The Meaning of Environmental Security: Ecological Politics and Policy in the New Security Era, Chapter 9, 137-41]

The question of whether it is valid to understand environmental ... ensue from the project of environmental security.
=Negative= 
==Specific Rounds/Requests== 
===Octos vs. Grady CD (SUSTAIN)=== 
====Militarization 1NC Link==== 
SUSTAIN is spun as militarization – depicted as a space weapons system
Jurist et al. ’09, John M. Jurist, Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences, David C. Hook, Planehook Aviation Services, David Livingston, Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences, April 30, 2009, “Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN): How to Do It and Use It as a Driver for Low-Cost Responsive Orbital Launch”, [[http://www.responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/Session%20I/1002_Jurist/1002P.pdf]], DKreus
Because SUSTAIN utilizes space for … not be overlooked or discounted.
====2NC Links==== 
Military space station – SUSTAIN launch requires a space fortress – THEIR AUTHOR
Space Transportation Technology Roadmap, ’10 – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO [October 21, [[http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf]]], DKreus
Ideally, the SUSTAIN capability calls … distance from its terrestrial objective.

That triggers the link – invites unprecedented backlash AND
Even if plan mechanism does not involve space fortress the military will use SUSTAIN as a justification for its creation
Admiral Olson et al. ’08, Admiral Eric Olson, USSOCOM, Brigadier General Remo Butler, USSOCOM, Lieutenant General Buck Bedard, USMC, November 18, 2008, “Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability”, [[http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport]], DKreus Ideally, the SOF SUSTAIN capability … that it will be approved.

====Solvency 1NC==== 
1—SUSTAIN is not feasible – earliest possible date of operation is 2035
Dinerman ’06, Taylor Dinerman, space writer and researcher “Low-cost access to orbit: space Marines to the rescue”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/530/1]], DKreus **Cites Military Generals
In his July 2003 statement to … a SUSTAIN-type vehicle sometime around 2020.

3—No parallel between SUSTAIN and existing tech – it’s not feasible
Popular Science ’06, “Semper Fly: Marines in Space”, [[http://www.popsci.com/military-aviation-space/article/2006-12/semper-fly-marines-space]], DKreus
There are other hurdles. Dwayne … normal propulsion and normal structures."

4—Rapid insertion is impossible – no landing capability
Jurist et al. ’09, John M. Jurist, Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences, David C. Hook, Planehook Aviation Services, David Livingston, Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences, April 30, 2009, “Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN): How to Do It and Use It as a Driver for Low-Cost Responsive Orbital Launch”, [[http://www.responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/Session%20I/1002_Jurist/1002P.pdf]], DKreus
Half way around the world … the absence of extensive infrastructure.
5—Anti-access tech guts solvency – SUSTAIN is not feasible until 2030
McGlaun ’08, Shane McGlaun, staff writer for Daily tech, citing military tech analyst Baker Spring, October 20, 2008, “U.S. Wants Soldiers Inserted into Troubled Areas via Rockets”, [[http://www.prisonplanet.com/us-wants-soldiers-inserted-into-troubled-areas-via-rockets.html]], DKreus

The technology needed for such…

6—Marines overheat after landing – that shatters rapid response capability
Jurist et al. ’09, John M. Jurist, Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences, David C. Hook, Planehook Aviation Services, David Livingston, Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences, April 30, 2009, “Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN): How to Do It and Use It as a Driver for Low-Cost Responsive Orbital Launch”, [[http://www.responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/Session%20I/1002_Jurist/1002P.pdf]], DKreus
Another safety issue relates to … to gain access for treatment.

7—Rapid response is impossible – mission planning time requires six hours
Space Transportation Technology Roadmap, ’10 – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO [October 21, [[http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf]]], DKreus
The RFI had defined the … not lend itself to quantification.

====Solvency 2NC==== 
=====Feasibility Extension===== 
And, their feasibility author flows neg – concedes that SUSTAIN doesn’t work until 2025
Space Transportation Technology Roadmap, ’10 – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO [October 21, [[http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf]]], DKreus
Mr. Bob Hickman presented USAF … during the period of 2011 to 2014.

And, their claims are wrong – even marine sources admit that SUSTAIN isn’t ready until 2030
Popular Science ’06, “Semper Fly: Marines in Space”, [[http://www.popsci.com/military-aviation-space/article/2006-12/semper-fly-marines-space]], DKreus T
he program is quickly gaining … service after 22 years of development.

=====Anti-Access Tech Extension===== 
And, high likelihood SUSTAIN is targeted – high speed and fog of war
Jurist et al. ’09, John M. Jurist, Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences, David C. Hook, Planehook Aviation Services, David Livingston, Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences, April 30, 2009, “Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN): How to Do It and Use It as a Driver for Low-Cost Responsive Orbital Launch”, [[http://www.responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/Session%20I/1002_Jurist/1002P.pdf]], DKreus
As a security consideration, warning of … crews to provide additional security.

====Rapid Response Bad==== 
Rapid intervention capability causes prolif – fear of pre-emption incentivizes rogue state nuclearization
Mearsheimer, Prof of Poli Sci, ’10, (John J.,12-6, “Imperial by Design”, R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, [[http://nationalinterest.org/print/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=1]], DKreus)

IF ALL of this were not enough, global dominance, especially ... will not follow Washington’s orders.

Proliferation causes nuclear war – it uniquely increases the risk and magnitude of conflicts
Sokolski, ’09 Henry, Executive Director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center and serves on the US congressional Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism, “Avoiding a nuclear crowd,” Policy Review, June/July

AT A MINIMUM, such developments will be a departure ... that neither the proponents of nuclear abolition, nor their critics, would ever want.
Rapid response freaks other countries out - results in counter-balancing which makes violent collapse inevitable
Kober, Ph.D in foreign policy, ’07, (Stanley. Research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, Ph.D. from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. April 3. “The Realignment of the World.” [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=3055]], Wake)

On March 11, the German ambassador in Islamabad hosted ... first president directly, rather than assert that it is promoting a more democratic and peaceful world.

Specifically, a Chinese-Russian counterbalance would violently collapse heg and cause extinction
Roberts, Senior Fellow at Stanford, ’07, Paul Craig, Senior Research Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, William E. Simon Chair in Political Economy, Center for Strategic and International Studies (“US Hegemony Spawns Russian-Chinese Military Alliance,” [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/roberts/roberts218.html]], Wake)
==Strategy== 
===Wake Forest=== 
====Round 2 vs Cathedral Prep HB==== 
1AC: James Webb Telescope - Heg + NASA funding w/ solar flares + colonization
1NC: Security Kritik, Japan replicate+launch CP, Space Militarization DA, Heg Bad, I/L defense to solar flares + colonization
2NC: Space Militarization DA, case defense
1NR: Heg Bad
2NR: Space Militarization DA, case defense

====Round 3 vs National Cathedral JS==== 
1AC: DSCVR - Solar Flares + warming
1NC: T-substantial, T-development, Russia CP, Russian Nationalism DA, Dedev, Case Defense
2NC: Dedev (war, environment, inevitability) + case defense
1NR: Dedev (warming)
2NR: Dedev + defense

====Round 5 vs Tampa Prep LW==== 
1AC: DSCVR - Solar Flares + warming
1NC: T-substantial, T-development, Russia CP, Russian Nationalism DA, Dedev, Case Defense
2NC: Dedev (war, environment, inevitability) + case defense
1NR: Dedev (warming)
2NR: Dedev + defense

====Doubles vs Thomas Johnson FG==== 
1AC: DSCVR - Solar Flares + warming adaption
1NC: T-substantial, T-development, Russia CP, Russian Nationalism DA, Dedev, Case Defense
2NC: Dedev (war, environment, inevitability) + case defense
1NR: Dedev (warming)
2NR: Dedev + defense

===Griffin=== 
====Round 1 vs Columbus ??==== 
1AC: Superfund for climate monitoring + debris clean up, space debris w/ econ !, russia war !, asteroids !, warming !
1NC: T-USFG(acronym)=meaningless, T-should not will, T-increase/FX, Security K, Japan CP, Militarization DA, Case D
2NC: T-increase/FX, Japan CP, Militarization DA
1NR: Case Defense
2NR: Japan CP, Militarization DA

====Round 3 vs Central Gwinnett ??==== 
1AC: Text= something like "The USFG should increase exploration and development, including china coop", china miscalc adv., china co-op adv
1NC: T-Increase/FX, T-Co-op not T, Security K, PIC out of exploration + development, Militarization DA, Case D
2NC: T-Co-op not T, PIC out of exploration+development, Militarization DA
1NR: T-Increase/FX, Case D
2NR: Exploration/Development PIC, Militarization DA

===Chattahoochee=== 
====Round 2 vs Tift County CP==== 
1AC: Asteroid mapping or deflection (i don't remember) w/ heg adv, asteroids adv, tech adv w/ nuclear primacy ! + innovation !
1NC: Security K, Japan CP, Case defense, Heg bad, militarization DA on case
2NC: Japan CP, Heg Bad, case D
1NR: case D + militarization DA on case
2NR: Heg Bad + Case D

====Round 3 vs Henry W. Grady DH==== 
1AC: SUSTAIN w/ power projection adv + terrorism adv
1NC: Security K, T-development is not militarizaiton, Militarization DA, heg bad, case D
2NC: Heg Bad, Case D
1NR: Militarization DA
2NR: Militarization DA + case D
===John's Creek=== 
====Round 1 vs Henry W. Grady HH==== 
1AC: SUSTAIN w/ power projection adv + terrorism adv
1NC: Security K, T-development is not militarizaiton, Militarization DA, heg bad, case D
2NC: Militarization DA, Case D
1NR: Heg Bad
2NR: Militarization DA + Case D

====Round 3 vs Marist AT==== 
1AC: Space Corps w/ Air Force Adv and space doctrine adv
1NC: T-increase, T-commercial, Pan K, Nanosats CP, Militarization DA (budget/doctrine link), case D
2NC: T-increase, case D
1NR: Militarization DA
2NR: Militarization DA + case D

====Round 5 vs Milton CT==== 
1AC: ORS w/ heg adv + miscalc adv
1NC: T-commercial, security k, code of conduct CP, Militarization DA, case D
2NC: Militarization DA, case D
1NR: Case D
2NR: Militarization DA, case D

====Quarters vs Westminster LS==== 
1AC: Asteroids w/ Large asteroids adv + cooperation adv + huge impact framing contention
1NC: T-probe (i don't remember the exact violation), Security K, Japan CP, Militarization DA, Case D
2NC: Security K, Case D
1NR: Japan CP, Militarization DA
2NR: Severance Perms Bad
===Alpharetta=== 
====Round 2 vs Calhoun BM==== 
1AC: Hardening w/ Econ !, China trade !, Food Scarcity !
1NC:T-commercial, security k, japan cp, militarization da, de-dev, case d
2NC: De-dev, case defense
1NR: De-dev
2NR: De-dev, case defense

====Round 4 vs Chattahoochee CK==== 
1AC: Nano-sats, Artic conflict advantage, deterrence adv
1NC: T-commercial, security k, militarization da, super-committee da
2NC: Super-committee da, deterrence
1NR: Artic conflict
2NR: Super-committee da, case defense


====Quarters vs Milton CV==== 
1AC: SSA w/ deterrence adv, miscalc adv
1NC: T-substantial(inherency), Security K, militarization DA, super-committee DA, case D
2NC: Super-committee DA, deterrence
1NR: Miscalc, T-substantial (inherency)
2NR: Super-committee DA, inherency

===Glenbrooks=== 
====Round 1 vs Cherry Creek RG==== 
1AC: SPS w/ cooperation adv, warming adv
1NC: T-human, Security K, LSP CP, super-committee DA, warming good, militarization DA (on case), case D
2NC: Militarization DA, case D, warming good
1NR: Super-committee DA
2NR: Militarization DA, case D

====Round 4 vs UCLab RH==== 
1AC: Internet Democracy Satellite w/ democracy adv, china war adv
1NC: Security K, super-committee DA, Japan CP, case D, china war good
2NC: China war good, case D
1NR: Super-committee DA
2NR: China war good, case D

====Round 5 vs Cathedral Prep BH==== 
1AC: Mars colonization w/ Colonization adv
1NC: Security K, Super-committee Da, Japan CP, case D
2NC: Case D
1NR: Super-committee DA
2NR: Super-committee DA, case D

===MBA=== 
====Round 1 vs Washington CR==== 
1AC: Asteroids w/ Asteroid adv, nuclear deflection adv
1NC: Security K, Jackson Vanik DA, Japan CP, Intentional Misuse DA (on case), case D
2NC: Intentional Misuse DA, case D
1NR: Jackson Vanik DA
2NR: Intentional Misuse DA, case D

====Round 4 vs Iowa City West==== 
1AC: ISS Laboratory w/ Science Diplomacy adv, Biotech adv
1NC: Security K, Jackson Vanik DA, Japan CP, China Soft Power DA, case D
2NC: China Co-op DA, case D
1NR: Jackson Vanik DA
2NR: China Soft Power DA, Jackson Vanik DA (answering straight turn), case D

====Round 5 vs Pembroke Hill==== 
1AC: UFO Search Aff w/ Anthro adv
1NC: T-human, Kappeler K, Jackson-Vanik DA, Japan CP, case D
2NC: T-human, case D
1NR: Jackson-Vanik DA
2NR: T-human

===Milton=== 
====Round 1 vs Westminster YZ==== 
1AC: Asteroids Aff w/ Asteroid adv, Science Diplomacy adv
1NC: T-commercial, Security K, Jackson-Vanik DA, Advantage CP (OTEC solves science diplomacy), Intentional Misuse DA (on case), case D
2NC: De-dev (on add-on), OTEC CP, Intentional Misuse DA, Case D
1NR: Security K
2NR: De-dev, OTEC CP, Case D

====Round 3 vs Alpharetta ??==== 
1AC: LSP Aff w/ Heg adv, Colonization adv
1NC: T-human, Plan Flaw (Federal Government), Security, Extinction Refuge CP, Jackson Vanik DA, Heg bad, Case D
2NC: Extinction Refuge CP, Heg Bad, Case D
1NR: Jackson Vanik DA, Case D
2NR: Jackson Vanik DA, Case D, Condo (4 minutes)

====Octos vs Grady CD==== 
1AC: SUSTAIN Aff w/ Terrorism adv, Rapid response adv
1NC: T-commercial, T-increase requires permanence, Security, Militarization DA, Rapid Response Bad (On Case), Case D, Solvency
2NC: Militarization DA, Solvency
1NR: Rapid Response Bad, Case D
2NR: Militarization DA, Solvency

===UGA=== 
====Round 1 vs Johns Creek ??==== 
1AC: Planetary Defense aff w/ asteroids adv, aliens adv, no war contention
1NC: T-human, Security, Militarization DA, Extinction Refuge CP, case D, yes war
2NC: Militarization DA, case D, yes war
1NR: Security K
2NR: Militarization DA, case D, yes war

====Round 3 vs Central Gwinett HZ==== 
1AC: China co-op aff w/ China adv, ISS adv
1NC: T-increase, security, jackson-vanik DA, PIC out of co-op offer, china war good, warming good, case defense
2NC: PIC out of co-op offer, China war good
1NR: Jackson-vanik DA, t-increase
2NR: PIC out of co-op, China war good

====Round 6 vs Johns Creek AS==== 
1AC: The Dispossessed aff w/ Narrative + Cap Bad
1NC: Framework, VTL impact turns/Util Good, Cap Good
2NC: FWork
1NR: Cap Good, VTL ! turns/Util Good
2NR: Framework

===State=== 
====Round 1 vs Chattahoochee C?==== 
1AC: Nanosats aff w/ drug trade adv, space deterrence adv
1NC: T-human, Security K, Weaponization DA, Near Space CP, Pre-emption DA, case d
2NC: Pre-emption DA, case d
1NR: Security K
2NR: Pre-emption DA, case d

====Round 3 vs Houston County HP==== 
1AC: Space Weaponization w/ Heg adv, China adv, space control adv
1NC: T-human, Security K, Weaponization DA, Nanosats CP, Case Defense
2NC: Security K, Case D
1NR: T-human, Weaponization DA
2NR: Security K

====Round 5 vs Marist AA==== 
1AC: Space Corps w/ heg adv, china adv
1NC: T-increase, security k, weaponization da(funding link), nanosats CP, case defense
2NC: Security K, Case D
1NR: T-increase, Weaponization DA
2NR: Security K

==Kritiks== 
===Security=== 
====1NC==== 
The Aff promotes a securitizing view of space exploration by justifying the plan through a politics of fear --- this is an intentional narrative that conceals ideological bias and serves as a pretext for militarization
Mellor, ’07, (Felicity, Lecturer in Science Communication – Imperial College (UK), “Colliding Worlds: Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space”, Social Studies of Science, 37(4), August, p. 499-502)

Since the late 1980s, a small group of astronomers and planetary scientists... that helped legitimize the militarization of space.

Disorder and insecurity are inevitable. Attempting to control danger is the impetus for global destruction
Der Derian, ’98, (James, Professor of Political Science – University of Massachusetts, On Security, Ed. Lipschutz, p. 24-25)

No other concept in international relations packs the metaphysical punch... identities calcifying into a fearful sameness.

The alternative is to vote negative to in favor of epistemological and ontological questioning --- that solves serial policy failure and is a prior question
Cheeseman, 96 [Graeme Cheeseman, Senior Lecturer at New South Wales, and Robert Bruce Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ, ’96 Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9

This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional ...legitimacy through policy-making processes.
=== === 
====Links==== 
=====Asteroids===== 
Their framing of asteroids as a natural inevitable enemy turns everything into a possible threat and strengthens the space defense industry – natural technological progression will solve the impact of asteroids for future generations
Mellor 7 – Lecturer in Science Communication in the Humanities Department at Imperial College London (Felicity, “Colliding Worlds: Asteroid Research and Legitimization of War in Space”, Sagepub, Social Studies of Science, 499(37), RG)

The asteroid impact threat was thus articulated within a ...beating swords into ploughshares’ (quoted in Matthews, 1997).

=====China===== 
Aff reps of China are a myth: the way we view China is not a product of objective study but rather of the way we view ourselves. The 1AC relies on a self-imagination in which the goal of all nations is to be more like American hegemon. All of the affirmative’s impact claims are false: they reflect how we feel about ourselves more than they describe an objective reality.
Pan ’04, Pan, PhD degree in Political Science and International Relations from the Australian National University, 2K4 [Chengxin, The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Vol. 29, 2004]

China and its relationship … seeks to make a contribution.
=====Cooperation===== 
The affirmative hides their drive for security behind the mask of cooperation—it’s only a political tool
Sheehan 7 (Michael Sheehan is Professor of International Relations at Swansea University. His publications include The International Politics of Space (2007), International Security: An Analytical Survey (2005) and National and International Security (2000). His current research focuses on European space policy, and on the relationship between liberalism, democracy and war. "The international politics of space" [[http://books.google.com/books?id=5LUR6CiBwusC&pg=PA55&dq="outer+space"+exploration+David+Campbell+and+Der+Derian&lr=&source=gbs_toc_r&cad=4#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=5LUR6CiBwusC&pg=PA55&dq="outer+space"+exploration+David+Campbell+and+Der+Derian&lr=&source=gbs_toc_r&cad=4#v=onepage&q&f=false]], jt)
The drama of the space race between the superpowers ... example Cuba, Vietnam, Morocco and Angola."1
=====Hegemony===== 
Third – Hegemony is founded upon a fantasy of control that must endlessly strike any potential threat- this aggressive stance turns perceived foes into real ones and makes war and overstretch inevitable- endless war isn’t a ‘necessary evil’, its exactly what the neocons want
Ira Chernus, Professor of Religious Studies and Co-director of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at the University of Colorado-Boulder, 2006, Monsters to Destroy: The Neoconservative War on Terror and Sin

The end of the cold … and enact the neocon story.


=====Terror Talk===== 
First – the affirmative's depiction of an imminent terrorist threat transforms the real people who commit terrorist acts into "the terr-ists," a group of shadowy monsters who are always just around the corner plotting their next attack. This framing of the terrorist threat sidesteps the question of why they hate us and normalizes a state of permanent national insecurity.
Chernus ’06, Ira, Professor of Religious Studies and Co-Director of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at the University of Colorado-Boulder, 2006 (Monsters to Destroy: The Neoconservative War on Terror and Sin, Published by Paradigm Publishers, ISBN 1594512752, p. 1-2)

Monsters are not real-unless … round of attack and counterattack.
Second—this turns the case – the affirmative’s framing of the terrorist threat entrenches a cycle of insecurity that makes attacks more likely.
Chernus ’06, Ira, Professor of Religious Studies and Co-Director of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at the University of Colorado-Boulder, 2006 (Monsters to Destroy: The Neoconservative War on Terror and Sin, Published by Paradigm Publishers, ISBN 1594512752, p. 3-4)

The structure is simple … will suffer another grievous attack.



====VTL !==== 
Security imposes a calculative logic that destroys the value to life
Dillon, ’96, (Michael, Professor of Politics – University of Lancaster, Politics of Security, p. 26)

Everything, for example, has now become possible... strategic discourse- even if the details have changed.

====Authors Biased==== 
Prefer our evidence – the Aff is epistemologically bankrupt. Their evidence is manufactured and distorted by the threat industry.
Pieterse, ’07, (Jan, Professor of Sociology – University of Illinois (Urbana), “Political and Economic Brinkmanship”, Review of International Political Economy, 14(3), p. 473)
Brinkmanship and producing instability carry several meanings... self hypnosis with, since it concerns classified information and covert ops, limited checks on its functioning.

====AT: Perm==== 
The perm footnotes our criticism – that disenfranchises the movement.
Ashley and Walker, ’90 [Richard K. Ashley, Professor of Political Science at Arizona State University, and R.B.J. Walker, Professor of International Relations at the University of Victoria, “Conclusion: Reading Dissidence/ Writing the Discipline: Crisis and the Question of Sovereignty in International Studies,” International Studies Quarterly, Volume 34, Available Online via JSTOR, p. 370, 1990]

These fragments of critical readings provide but ... agrees with this reading" is already assuredly there.
====AT: Predictions Good==== 
Focusing on the specific scenario they have described feels prudent but is logically indefensible - overly detailed predictions are highly improbable and create false perceptions of security.
Yudkowsky, 06 [Eliezer Yudkowsky, Co-founder and Research Fellow of the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligenceâ€”a nonâ€“profit research institute dedicated to increasing the likelihood of, and decreasing the time to, a maximally beneficial singularity, one of the worldâ€™s foremost experts on Artificial Intelligence and rationality, â€œCognitive Biases Potentially Affecting Judgment Of Global Risks,â€ Draft of a chapter in Global Catastrophic Risks, edited by Nick Bostrom and Milan Cirkovic, August 31st, 2006, Available Online at [[http://singinst.org/upload/cognitive-biases.pdf]], Accessed 11-11-2010]
According to probability theory, adding additional ... narrow or implausibly detailed risk scenarios.


==Disads== 
===Space Militarization DA=== 
====1NC==== 
US not weaponizing space now
de Selding 2-20-09, Peter B.: Space News Staff Writer [“Pentagon Official: U.S. Is Not Developing Space Weapons,” [[http://www.space.com/news/090220-pentagon-space-weapons.html]]]

STRASBOURG, France - The United States is not developing ... have been unable" to produce a treaty.

LINK

Space militarization causes arms races and nuclear war
Rozoff ’09, Rick Rozoff, writer for Stop Nato, 2009. “Militarization of Space: The Threat of Nuclear War on Earth,” [[http://dandelionsalad.wordpress.com/2009/06/18/militarization-of-space-threat-of-nuclear-war-on-earth-by-rick-rozoff/]]

That is, the militarization of space can result ... that has ensured the peace for decades.

Independently, perception of militarization leads to Chinese miscalculation and space wars
Chase 3-25 (Michael S. Chase is an Associate Research Professor and Director of the Mahan Scholars Program at the U.S. Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island. “Defense and Deterrence in China’s Military Space Strategy” Publication: China Brief Volume: 11 Issue: 5. 3-25-2011 2011 01:22 [[http://www.jamestown.org/programs/chinabrief/single/?tx_ttnews%5Btt_news%5D=37699&tx_ttnews%5BbackPid%5D=25&cHash=e3f0fcd233f563e2364ad7bc49425244]] LShen)

A review of Chinese writings on military space operations indicates ... combination of defensive measures and deterrence.

Nuclear war
STRAITS TIMES, June 25, 2000; Lexis

And, the disad turns the case – perception of weaponization means that China could use ASATs and cyber-warfare to destroy [the plan]
Van Ness ’10, Peter, PhD (Berkley), lectures on security and peace building in the Department of International Relations in the College of Asia and the Pacific at the ANU. Previously faculty at the Graduate School of International Studies, University of Denver ’10 (ASIAN PERSPECTIVE, “ THE TIME HAS COME FOR A TREATY TO BAN WEAPONS IN SPACE” Vol. 34, No. 3, 2010, pp. 215-225)

First and foremost in designing an agreement is the need to ban space-based ... deployment, and use of ASAT weapons.

====Uniqueness==== 
=====Top Level===== 
No risk of weaponization in the status quo – new Obama policy
Huntley, 11 - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])

As is well understood, the space policies of the Bush administration ... Many devils may lurk in these details.

=====Inevitability Irrelevant===== 
Inevitability is irrelevant – if space weaponization is inevitable and bad, it should be delayed – asymmetric capabilities prove
Hardesty '05 (David C Hardesty, Captain in the US Navy, faculty of the Naval War College's Strategy and Policy Departmentfaculty of the Naval War College's Strategy and Policy Department, Spring 2005, “SPACE-BASED WEAPONS Long-Term Strategic Implications and Alternatives,” Naval War College Review, Vol. 58, No. 2)

If a decision to space-base weapons should not rest solely ... its supremacy in space would not be “inevitable.”







=====AT: Space War Inevitable===== 
Space conflict with China not inevitable – empirics and economics
Moore 06 (Mike Moore, Senior Consultant at Sapient Government Services, Winter 2006, “A Debate About Weapons in Space: Against A New Cold War?” SAIS Review, Volume 26, Number 1, pg.180-181)

On the surface, such threat estimates are not ... States and elsewhere no longer covet.9

=====AT: Weaponization Now===== 
Space weapons not inevitable – asymmetric capability, cost, and empirics
Mueller 02 (Karl P. Mueller, Ph.D. in politics, Princeton University; B.A. in political science, University of Chicago, senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation, 3/27/2002, “Is the Weaponization of Space Inevitable?,” International Studies Association Annual Convention)

Far and away the best argument that space weaponization is inevitable... either by the United States or regional adversaries in light of the alternatives.


=====AT: US Weaponizing Now===== 
And, Obama’s promise to not weaponize space has relieved China’s fears
Zhang 11 (Dr. Baohui Zhang, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, 5/3/11, “US missile defence and China’s nuclear posture: changing dynamics of an offence–defence arms race” International Affairs Vol. 87 Issue 3 [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1468-2346.2011.00990.x/pdf]] ACC 7/25/11)

Recent evidence suggests that the Obama administration ... began during the last year of the Bush administration.



====Links==== 
=====Budget Link===== 
Plan removes the primary motive driving cooperation – the expectation of a declining space budget
Fukushima ’11—National Institute for Defense Studies, (February, 2011, Yasuhito, Space Policy, “An Asian perspective on the new US space policy: The emphasis on international cooperation and its relevance to Asia” Vol. 27, Issue 1, Science Direct, FS)

Leveraging the increasing opportunities to work together ... and enable market access for US industry.”

=====Space Debris Removal Link===== 
Space debris removal is perceived as ASAT capability – leads to an arms race and conflict
Weeden ’10 (Brian Weeden, Technical Advisor for Secure World Foundation, 10/12/10, “Overview of the legal and policy challenges of orbital debris removal” [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964610001268]] ACC 7/25/11)

Although ADR operations are not inherently ASAT ... could lead to instability, and potentially to conflict.

=====Exploration Tech Link===== 
The military has a vested interest in space exploration for weaponization purposes- dual use
Raymond Duvall, Prrofessor of political science @ University of Minnesota, and Dr. Jonathan Havercroft, professor of political science at Oklahoma University, October 2006, “Taking Sovereignty Out of This World: Space Weapons and Empire of the Future” [[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=1&fid=2185920&jid=RIS&volumeId=34&issueId=04&aid=2185916]] ACC 7/21/11

The placing of weapons in orbital space has an intimate relationship to space exploration...object moving at a very high speed is confronted.







====2NC Link Magnifiers==== 
=====Nonmilitary Magnifer===== 
Even nonmilitary programs trigger the link – new tech facilitates militarization
The Voice of Russia 2011, [Andrei Kislyakov and Anastasia Kislyakova, Authors for the Voice of Russia, the Russian government's international radio broadcasting service owned by the All-Russia State Television and Radio Company. It presents news information and continues to broadcast to most of the world on shortwave and mediumwave, satellite, via the World Radio Network and via the Internet, “Military and Space Review → Militarization of space – is it a concern?,” March 19, 2011, [[http://english.ruvr.ru/radio_broadcast/36564197/47539112.html]]]

As other nations follow America’s lead, and rush ...would restrict "passive actions" like dual-purpose satellite systems.

And, perception of militarization alone triggers the link – we don’t have to win the plan is a weapon
Hsu and Bryner, ‘8 (Jeremy and Jeanna, correspondents for space.com, citing Everett Dolman, professor of comparative military studies at Maxwell Air Force Base, 2-21-08, “Space Arms Race Heats Up Overnight,” [[http://www.space.com/5007-space-arms-race-heats-overnight.html]])

The U.S. Navy's successful missile hit and apparent ... okay if you test this technology if it's done safely."

=====Chinese Suspicion Magnifer===== 
China will spin the plan as militarization– that ensures escalating militarization
Yoshihara ‘3 (Toshi, doctoral candidate at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, and a research fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis in Massachusetts, 10-16-03, “A US-China space race could mean trouble,” [[http://www.boston.com/news/globe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2003/10/16/a_us_china_space_race_could_mean_trouble/]])

WITH TUESDAY'S successful launch of... costly and destabilizing to international security.

====2NC AT: Link Turns==== 
=====2NC AT: China Cooperation Link Turns===== 
Competition is zero-sum – small gains are perceived as threatening
Martel and Yoshihara, ‘3 (William C., professor of national security affairs at the Naval War College in Rhode Island, Toshi, doctoral candidate at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, and a research fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis in Massachusetts, “Averting a Sino-U.S. Space Race,” [[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/washington_quarterly/v026/26.4martel.html#authbio1|http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/washington_quarterly/v026/26.4martel.html#authbio1]])

At the same time that the United States views ...prove destabilizing for Sino-U.S. relations.

Third is Technological disparity – The capability gap between the U.S. and China prevents transparency and genuine cooperation in space policy
Martel and Yoshihara, ‘3 (William C., professor of national security affairs at the Naval War College in Rhode Island, Toshi, doctoral candidate at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, and a research fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis in Massachusetts, “Averting a Sino-U.S. Space Race,” [[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/washington_quarterly/v026/26.4martel.html#authbio1|http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/washington_quarterly/v026/26.4martel.html#authbio1]])

Even if Beijing and Washington were to engage in measures designed ... transparency will not exist for some time to come.

====Impact Framing==== 
=====Russia war===== 
Russia war is the only existential risk
Bostrum 02. (Dr. Nick, Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies at YALE, "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," 3-8-02, [[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html]])

A much greater existential risk ...cities most likely to be targeted.

=====Space Escalation===== 
And, limited warfare and escalation control don’t apply in space
Krepon, 3 – president of the Henry Stimson Center (Michael, Space Assurance or Space Dominance? THE CASE AGAINST WEAPONIZING SPACE, [[http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf]])

The inherent escalatory potential of satellite warfare ...interested in deterrence than in dominance and compellance.

====AT: Impact Turns==== 
=====Top Level===== 
Deterrence is stable now – only a risk the plan upsets the balance – we control uniqueness
Charles Glaser and Steve Fetter, Professor in the Irving B. Harris Graduate School of Public Policy Studies at the University of Chicago and Professor in the School of Public Affairs at the University of Maryland, 01 International Security, “National Missile Defense and the Future of U.S. Nuclear Weapons Policy”, Summer, 2001, Vol. 26, No. 1, P. 40-92 [Marcus]

We argue that the United States should reject ...afford protection against such attacks.
===Super-committee DA=== 
====1NC==== 
Super-committee fill succeed now – setbacks are temporary
WSJM 10/28/11, “Upton Says Super Committee Is Making Progress”, [[http://www.wsjm.com/Upton-Says-Super-Committee-Is-Making-Progress/11327460]], DKreus
Congressman Fred Upton says that … would have on federal operations.

They tank compromise – spending is a redline
Indy Star 9/14/11, [[http://www.indystar.com/article/20110914/NEWS05/109140331/Deficit-cutting-supercommittee-has-its-work-cut-out-it]], DKreus
WASHINGTON — Digging in for a bruising … shape up as a tougher sell.

The link is PROCEDURAL – can’t spend more money under BCA, so they trigger SEQUESTRATION CUTS
FRA ’11, [[http://www.fra.org/AM/Template.cfm?Section=Home&CONTENTID=12678&TEMPLATE=/CM/ContentDisplay.cfm]], FRA is a congressionally chartered, non-profit organization that represents the interests of the Sea Service community before the U.S. Congress. The Association is named after the Navy’s program for personnel transferring to the Fleet Reserve or Fleet Marine Corps Reserve after 20 or more years of active duty, but less than 30 years for retirement purposes and its membership is comprised of current and former enlisted members of the U.S. Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard
Congress returns to Washington from … to limit debate) are allowed.

Sequestration cuts to defense tank global hegemony
Maginus 10/20, Robert Maginus, retired Army lieutentant colonel, national security and foreign affairs analyst, 10/20/11, “‘Catastrophic’ Defense Cuts Seen as the Tipping Point of U.S. Military Supremacy”, [[http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=46986]], DKreus
National security leaders warn that … the world’s leading military power.

US leadership is crucial to global peace and preventing multiple nuclear wars
Kagan ’11 (The Price of Power The benefits of U.S. defense spending far outweigh the costs Jan 24, 2011, Vol. 16, No. 18 • By ROBERT KAGAN Robert Kagan is a contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution.
Today the international situation is … table will not fall over.

====Nuclear Triad !==== 
Sequestration eviscerate nuclear triad
Maginus 10/20, Robert Maginus, retired Army lieutentant colonel, national security and foreign affairs analyst, 10/20/11, “‘Catastrophic’ Defense Cuts Seen as the Tipping Point of U.S. Military Supremacy”, [[http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=46986]], DKreus .
Our nuclear deterrence could … the world’s leading military power.

This creates three unique scenarios for nuclear war – allied proliferation, hostile aggression, and crisis escalation
Williams ‘10 (David E. Williams, Jr., Major, U.S. Air Force, career Security Forces Officer currently serving as the Chief of Nuclear Security Inspections, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, former Squadron Commander, Staff Officer, Operations Officer, Flight Commander, and Convoy Commander within the Air Force nuclear community, also a certified SWAT Team Leader, Trainer, Designated Marksman, and Crisis Negotiator, M.A. Security Studies, M.A. Counseling & Human Behavior, B.A. Psychology, “A Review of U.S. First-Strike Ambiguity and the Triad Nuclear Force,” Defense Threat Reduction University Journal, 1(2), October 2010, [[http://www.dtra.mil/dtru/documents/V1_2/US%20First%20Strike%20Ambiguity%20-%20Williams.pdf]])
The Case for Continuity The … commitment to defending South Korea.

====Uniqueness==== 
Several reasons the committee will succeed
1. Deal making
CSM 10/26/11, “Deficit-cutting 'super committee': Can it come up with a plan in time?”, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2011/1026/Deficit-cutting-super-committee-Can-it-come-up-with-a-plan-in-time]], DKreus

Meanwhile, according to several press … ,” The Washington Post reported Wednesday.

2. Momentum
The Washington Post 10/27/11, “’Supercommittee’ showing signs of life”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/cbo-agency-budgets-at-lowest-levels-since-2002/2011/10/26/gIQAk8ZyIM_story_1.html]], DKreus

Still, support for a bigger deal … ,” including revenue, or higher taxes.

3. Insider Sources
Seligman 10/26/11, Lara, staff writer for national journal, “Toomey: Super Committee Making Progress, but 'Not There Yet'”, [[http://www.nationaljournal.com/congress/toomey-super-committee-making-progress-but-not-there-yet--20111026]], DKreus

With the super committee’s deadline … going on virtually every day.”

4. Situational gravity
CNN 10/25/11, “Still 'plenty of time' for a deal, 'super committee' co-chair says”, [[http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com/2011/10/25/still-plenty-of-time-for-a-deal-super-committee-co-chair-says/]], DKreus

Washington (CNN) - With the deadline … deadline to release its recommendations.

====AT: Thumpers (Top Level)==== 
Hold all of their link UQ to a very high threshold---issues don’t cause backlash until they’re at the finish line---if they can’t cite a bill discount them
Drum, 10 (Kevin, Political Blogger, Mother Jones, [[http://motherjones.com/kevin-drum/2010/03/immigration-coming-back-burner)Not|http://motherjones.com/kevin-drum/2010/03/immigration-coming-back-burner)]]

Not to pick on Ezra … . But they will be soon.
====Links==== 
=====ORS/Reconstitution===== 
Plan costs a ton of money
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rendleman 10 (1AC Author)</span> - Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)
While developing reconstitution and … to support a winning space strategy.
==Topicality== 
===T-Substantial(Inherency)=== 
====1NC==== 
A. Interpretation: the aff has to be a substantial change from status quo policy – not an increase based on the hypothetical assumption that status quo policy won’t be implemented or is insufficient
Substantial means real at present time
Words and Phrases ‘64 (40 W&P 759)
The words “outward, open, actual, … ; undivided; sole; opposed to inclusive.

B. Violation –
1. The U.S. is implementing space-based sensors now – your aff is the status quo
GAO ’11, Government Accountability Office, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS: Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities,” May, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]], DKreus
DOD plans to begin … challenges and risks they face.

2. Standard for interpreting evidence – only official U.S. policymakers are credible sources. They are in charge of implementing the SSA and are the only ones with access to the truth. The 1ac evidence are from outsiders speculating about U.S. SSA policy based on the assumption that the status quo is insufficient.
C. Voting Issue –
1. No disad ground exists that competes off of the .01% chance that the U.S. doesn’t do the plan now. ALL link arguments are terminally non unique because the aff IS status quo policy.
2. Mixes burdens – it’s impossible to determine whether the plan is topical in a vacuum. Mixing burdens makes the topic unpredictable and dependent upon effects-based evidence determinations – not the action of the plan. In practice, this means the aff will always win – because it’s a question of probability, and there’s always non-zero chance that the status quo might change.
3. Even if they’re topical, they’re not inherent – they don’t have attitudinal, structural, or even existential inherency – because their plan is in existence now. This is independently a voting issue because ALL negative arguments and research strategies are premised on an affirmative change.
====2NC AT: W/M==== 
Here are a few examples of status quo SSA sensors being deployed in the status quo:
1—Space Based Space Surveillance satellite –
GAO ’11, may 2011, Government Accountability Office, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS: Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities,” May, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]], DKreus
Table 1: Descriptions, Status, and Challenges … a follow-on capability to SBSS.

The first space based surveillance was launched a month ago – they do not meet
Spaceflight Now 10/21/11, “Worldwide launch log”, [[http://spaceflightnow.com/tracking/launchlog.html]], DKreus Sept. 26 Minotaur 4 • SBSS Launch time: 0441 GMT (12:41 a.m. EDT)
Launch site: SLC-8, Vandenberg Air Force ...Mission Status Center. [Sept. 26]

2—Rapid Attack Identification Detection and Reporting Systems
GAO ’11, may 2011, Government Accountability Office, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS: Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities,” May, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]], DKreus

Rapid Attack Identification Detection and … initial operational capability estimated for 2008.

3—Space fence – this is a system of radars to expand surveillance
GAO ’11, may 2011, Government Accountability Office, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS: Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities,” May, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]], DKreus

Space Fence Description/status: •The … site providing full capability by 2020.

4—Space Surveillance Telescope
GAO ’11, may 2011, Government Accountability Office, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS: Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities,” May, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]], DKreus

Space Surveillance Telescope (SST) Description/… that significantly exceeds current capabilities.

Second is integration – that is being done now – National Space Situational Awareness architecture
GAO ’11, may 2011, Government Accountability Office, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS: Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities,” May, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]], DKreus

National SSA architecture.20 A national SSA … intelligence community’s requirements review processes.

Third is networking – IT IS BEING DONE NOW - Space Operations Center Mission System
GAO ’11, may 2011, Government Accountability Office, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS: Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities,” May, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]], DKreus

Joint Space Operations Center Mission … could not be readily used.

And, we will show a chart - the DoD is spending 6 billion on the aff now
GAO ’11, may 2011, Government Accountability Office, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS: Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities,” May, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]], DKreus
There is a very large graph somewhere in the article - i don't know exactly where it is at this moment
==== ==== 
==Impact Turns== 
===De-development=== 
====1NC Unsustainable==== 
Collapse of society is inevitable—it’s better to have it now than to have a catastrophic one in the future
MacKenzie, ’08, (Debora, Are We Doomed, New Scientist, Vol. 197 Issue 2650, p32-35, 4p, 4 May 2005, EBSCO, DKreus)

DOOMSDAY. The end of civilisation. Literature and film abound...in the long run this cannot be sustainable.

====1NC Environment==== 
Growth makes eco-collapse inevitable
Speth, law prof, ’08—Served as President Jimmy Carter’s White House environmental adviser and as head of the United Nations’ largest agency for international development Prof at Vermont law school. Former dean of the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies at Yale University . Former Professor of Law at Georgetown University Law Center, teaching environmental and constitutional law. .Former Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality in the Executive Office of the President. Co-founder of the Natural Resources Defense Council. Was law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Hugo L. Black JD, Yale. (James Gustave, The Bridge at the Edge of the World: Capitalism, the Environment, and Crossing from Crisis to Sustainability, Gigapedia, 6-9, DKreus)

But the much larger and more threatening impacts ... identify the transformative changes needed.

Biodiversity collapse outweighs – default to irreversibility.
Chen, 2K, Professor of Law at University of Minnesota and Dean of Law School at Louisville, (Jim, Globalization and Its Losers:, 9 Minn. J. Global Trade 157’ LexisNexis Legal)

Conscious decisions to allow the extinction of...sapiens - in ten mil- lion years, perhaps a hundred million.348
====1NC War==== 
No wars from economic collapse - studies prove
Morris Miller, economist, adjunct professor in the University of Ottawa’s Faculty of Administration, consultant on international development issues, former Executive Director and Senior Economist at the World Bank, Winter 2000, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Vol. 25, Iss. 4, “Poverty as a cause of wars?” p. Proquest

The question may be reformulated. Do wars spring ...form of violence to abort another).

Growth makes war inevitable
Trainer, ’02,—Senior Lecturer of School of Social Work @ University of New South Wales (Ted, If You Want Affluence, Prepare for War, Democracy & Nature, Vol. 8, No. 2, EBSCO, DKreus)

If this limits to growth analysis is at all valid the implications ... rich countries move to "The Simpler Way."

Extinction
Chase-Dunn ’96,—Distinguished Professor of Sociology and Director of the Institute for Research on World-Systems at the University of (Christopher, Conflict Among Core States: World-System Cycles and Trends, 23 January 1996, [[http://wsarch.ucr.edu/archive/papers/c-d&hall/warprop.htm]], DKreus) Note-figure omitted

Late in the K-wave upswing (i.e. in the 2020s), the world-system schema ... war). Boswell and Sweat call this the "resource theory of war."
====1NC Warming==== 
Ecological collapse and human extinction are inevitable without an economic collapse – growth also causes warming
Dr. Barry, PhD in Land Resources from UW-Madison and President and Founder of Ecological Internet, 1/14/2008 (Glen, “Economic Collapse and Global Ecology,” [[http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm]])

Given widespread failure to pursue policies sufficient ...emerge in solar energy and environmental restoration.

====2NC Unsustainable==== 
=====Scarcity/Warming===== 
There’s nothing that can stop the collapse
Trainer ‘10 (Ted, Ph.D. University of New South Wales, Australia, JournalofCosmology.com, June, “The Problems of Climate Change Cannot Be Solved By Consumer Societies”, [[http://journalofcosmology.com/ClimateChange106.html]]),

One of the fundamental contributing factors ... waste products threatens the very foundations of civilization.
=====Ideological Bias===== 
Their authors’ methodology is flawed
Trainer ‘7 (Ted, Senior Lecturer of School of Social Work @ University of New South Wales, “Renewable Energy Cannot Sustain A Consumer Society”, p. 125-159)

Above all it must be stressed how ... impenetrable mentality of delusion and denial.
=====Stratification===== 
Growth unsustainable- only degrowth improves welfare and environment
Kallis ’11, Giorgos Kallis, “In defense of degrowth,” Ecological Economics, Volume 70, Issue 5, 15 March 2011, Pages 873-88, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921800910005021]]

A common response to the above is that capitalism ...sustainable degrowth (van den Bergh termed “radical degrowth”).
====2NC Environment==== 
=====Timeframe Comparison===== 
Now is critical—the aff is too long term
Ulansey ‘6 (David, Professor of Philosophy and Religion, Ph.D. From Princeton, “The Impending Mass Extinction and How to Stop It”, [[http://www.energybulletin.net/node/23694]]]

My talk at the Be-In will be about ... birth of new religions like Christianity or Buddhism!
=====Impact Calc===== 
And, it’s a try or die for the environment, and it’s too late for growth to solve – massive consensus and studies prove
Knight ‘10 (Matthew, Cites the GBO and CBD: The GBO-3 is a landmark study in what is the U.N.'s International Year of Biodiversity and will play a key role in guiding the negotiations between world governments at the U.N. Biodiversity Summit in Nagoya, Japan in October 2010. The CBD -- an international treaty designed to sustain diversity of life on Earth -- was set up at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, May 10, “U.N. report: Eco-systems at 'tipping point'”, [[http://edition.cnn.com/2010/WORLD/americas/05/10/biodiversity.loss.report/index.html?eref=igoogle_cnn)Our|http://edition.cnn.com/2010/WORLD/americas/05/10/biodiversity.loss.report/index.html?eref=igoogle_cnn)]]

The world's eco-systems are at risk of "rapid degradation ...capital of around &euro95 trillion ($121 trillion)," he said.

Our impacts O/W and make the 1ac impacts inevitable
Dr. Barry, PhD in Land Resources from UW-Madison and President and Founder of Ecological Internet, 1/14/2008 (Glen, “Economic Collapse and Global Ecology,” [[http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm]])

Bright greens take the continued existence of a habitable ...collapse can be a final, fatal death swoon.

====2NC War==== 
=====Terrorism Internal===== 
Growth causes terrorism – that I/L turns the warrant in their 1ac ev
Cronin ’03—Senior Associate at the Oxford Leverhulme Programme on the Changing Character of War (Audrey Kurth, “Behind the Curve: Globalization and International Terrorism”, Project MUSE)

=====Escalation===== 
a. Economic growth makes conflict escalation more likely
Boehmer 10 (Charles, professor of political science at the University of Texas – El Paso and Ph.D. in Political Science from Pennsylvania State University, “Economic Growth and Violent International Conflict: 1875-1999,” Defence and Peace Economics, June, Vol. 21, Issue 3, pg. 249-268)

The theory set forth earlier theorizes that economic growth increases ...likely to escalate a war given its recent national performance.
=====Expectations===== 
b. Expectations and need for resources make upswing wars comparatively worse
Mauer, economist, 1986 (Nathan, The Kondratieif Waves, p 197-8)

The overall trend of the economy shapes perceptions as to its strength and direction... wars tend to be more desperate, more widespread, and more destructive.
=====Magnitude===== 
c. We control future wars - Growth increases the probability and magnitude of major conflict.
Klare 2001—Five College Professor of Peace and World Security Studies at Hampshire College (Michael, The next great arms race, Foreign Affairs. New York: Summer 1993. Vol. 72, Iss. 3; pg. 136, 17 pgs, ProQuest)

Clearly the growing military potential of the Pacific Rim countries is closely tied to... producing a wide variety of modern weapons with substantial indigenous design input.

e. Worse wars in the upswing
Goldstein, professor of International Relations at American University, 1988 (Joshua S., Long Cycles, pg 29)

Kondratieff’s response to Trotsky’s argument was that Trotsky ...products, not causes, of the long wave.
=====Affordability===== 
d. Countries can afford war in the upswing – empirically proven since 1495
Modelski, professor of political science, and Thompson, professor of political science, 1996 (George and William, Leading Sectors and World Powers, pg 20-22)

Goldstein (1985, 1987, 1988, 1991a) has probably contributed ...for generating the fluctuations in capability concentration.
====2NC Warming==== 
=====Internal Link Comparison===== 
Recession slows consumption and production, stopping emissions
Farnish, environmental writer and activist and founder of Green Seniors, 3/17/2008 (Keith, “Global Recession: Global Breathing Space,” [[http://www.blog.thesietch.org/2008/03/17/global-recession-global-breathing-space/]])

Was it just my imagination, or did I hear a small ripple ...carbon emissions was closer than I had ever suspected.

Studies prove
Foley, staff writer for the AP, October 9 2007
([[http://news.wired.com/dynamic/stories/C/CLIMATE_CHANGE?SITE=WIRE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT&CTIME=2007-10-09-10-11-24]], accessed October 20 2007)

Worldwide economic growth has accelerated the ... panel's three working group reports published earlier this year.

Ecological sustainability and human survival require economic collapse
Dr. Barry, President and Founder of Ecological Internet and PhD in Land Resources from UW-Madison, 1/14/2008 (Glen, “Economic Collapse and Global Ecology,” [[http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm]])

A successful revolutionary response to imminent global ecosystem ...planetary and human revival.

===Heg Bad=== 
====1NC==== 
Slow and peaceful transition from heg is inevitable – sustaining only causes violent instability
Pape, prof of poli sci, ’09 professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago (Robert, Empire Falls, National Interest, 1/22, DKreus)

Clearly, major shifts in the balance of power in the international ... must adopt more realistic foreign commitments.

Offshore balancing is coming now and solves – sustaining heg ensures great power war and extinction
Schwarz, editor of the Atlantic, and Layne, research fellow, ’02 , Editor of the Atlantic, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at the Independent Institute [Benjamin and Christopher “A New Grand Strategy” Atlantic Monthly, January 1st]

The rise of new great powers is inevitable, and America's ... confrontation with the new great powers.

Sustaining heg results in counter-balancing which makes violent collapse inevitable
Kober, Ph.D in foreign policy, ’07, (Stanley. Research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, Ph.D. from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. April 3. “The Realignment of the World.” [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=3055]], Wake)

On March 11, the German ambassador in Islamabad hosted ... first president directly, rather than assert that it is promoting a more democratic and peaceful world.

Specifically, a Chinese-Russian counterbalance would violently collapse heg and cause extinction
Roberts, Senior Fellow at Stanford, ’07, Paul Craig, Senior Research Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, William E. Simon Chair in Political Economy, Center for Strategic and International Studies (“US Hegemony Spawns Russian-Chinese Military Alliance,” [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/roberts/roberts218.html]], Wake)

This week the Russian and Chinese militaries are ... aggressive regime the world has seen since Hitler’s.

Maintaining heg causes prolif – fear of pre-emption incentivizes rogue state nuclearization
Mearsheimer, Prof of Poli Sci, ’10, (John J.,12-6, “Imperial by Design”, R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, [[http://nationalinterest.org/print/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=1]], DKreus)

IF ALL of this were not enough, global dominance, especially ... will not follow Washington’s orders.

Proliferation causes nuclear war – it uniquely increases the risk and magnitude of conflicts
Sokolski, ’09 Henry, Executive Director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center and serves on the US congressional Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism, “Avoiding a nuclear crowd,” Policy Review, June/July

AT A MINIMUM, such developments will be a departure ... that neither the proponents of nuclear abolition, nor their critics, would ever want.

No impact to hegemony – regional powers can fill in
Friedman, ’10—research fellow in defense and homeland security, Cato. PhD candidate in pol sci, MIT (Ben, Military Restraint and Defense Savings, 20 July 2010, [[http://www.cato.org/testimony/ct-bf-07202010.html]], DKreus)

Another argument for high military spending is that U.S. military ... wars, while providing no obvious benefit.

Empirically proven
Geller, ’99—Geller and Singer, 99 – *Chair of the Department of Political Science @ Wayne State University (Daniel S and Joel David, Nations at war: a scientific study of international conflict, p. 116-117)

Hopf (1991) and Levy (1984) examine the frequency, magnitude... unrelated to the number of major powers in the system.

Prefer our evidence
Walt, ’09—prof of international affairs, Harvard. PhD in pol sci, UC Berkley (Stephen, “The threatmonger's handbook,” 4 May 2009,http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/05/04/the_threat_mongers_handbook, DKreus)

The United States has the world's largest economy ... threatmonger equates desires with actual capabilities.

====2NC Unsustainable==== 
Decline is inevitable -- bond rating, demographics, technology, overstretch and loss of influence -- military power won't check it
Charles Kenny, 8-9-11 - Senior fellow @ Center for Global Development, Schwartz fellow @ New America Foundation. "Three Cheers for Decline," Foreign Policy, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2]] ... or_decline.

As the U.S. bond rating falls... largest economic burden of any OECD country.

Unipolarity will give way to multipolarity – rising powers, nuclear deterrents, and backlash
Barry Buzan March ’11 (Montague Burton Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics and honorary professor at the University of Copenhagen and Jilin University, The Inaugural Kenneth N. Waltz Annual Lecture A World Order Without Superpowers: Decentred Globalism, International Relations, 25(1) 3–25, ILM)

Why should the natural dynamic of a... decline of US leadership this impulse has every opportunity to grow stronger.
====2NC Offshore Balancing==== 
Offshore balancing is infinitely preferable to heg –solves rising powers and de-escalates conflict
Mearsheimer, Prof of Poli Sci, ’10, (John J.,12-6, “Imperial by Design”, R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, [[http://nationalinterest.org/print/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=1]]), DKreus

Offshore balancing, which was America’s traditional grand... relied too heavily on military force to achieve its ambitious agenda.
====2NC Counterbalancing==== 
East Asia is on brink of war—only regional solutions solve instability
Feng 5/10/10 [Zhu, PhD, Professor of School of International Studies and Director of the Center for International & Strategic Studies @ Peking University, has served as research fellow @ Washington based CSIS & Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies @ Harvard University, visiting scholar @ Durham University in UK, “AN EMERGING TREND IN EAST ASIA: MILITARY BUDGET INCREASES AND THEIR IMPACT”, May 10, 2010, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/an_emerging_trend_in_east_asia]]]

If it is not yet an alarmist warning... concern for every country in the region.

And, we control the only I/L to China Conflict
Christopher Layne, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, 2007, "The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, p. 64-65. T

To be sure, the United States should not ignore... Sino-American conflict is virtually certain.

====2NC Terrorism==== 
US heg causes terrorism
Ivan Eland, Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute. Ph.D. in Public Policy from George Washington University and Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, 5/5/08, The Independent Institute, “Reverend Wright Is Not Totally Wrong.” .([[http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2182]]).

But what about Wright’s implication that U.S. foreign policy causes blowback... wacky and bigoted ravings

Extinction
Mohamed Sid-Ahmed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, 8/26/04, Al-Ahram, “Extinction!”, ([[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]).

A nuclear attack by terrorists will be much more critical... planet, we will all be losers.



====2NC No Impact==== 
Heg fails – the US cannot effectively exercise leadership
Mastanduno, ’09, (Michael, Professor of Government at Dartmouth, World Politics 61, No. 1, Ebsco, DKreus)

During the cold war the United States dictated the... no longer count on getting its own way.

Empirically proven Kober, ’10,—Research Fellow in Foreign Policy Studies, Cato. PhD, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts. (Stanley, The Deterrence Illusion, 13 June 2010, [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11898]], DKreus)

And just like the situation at the beginning of... a century ago, and the US could not guarantee it in Asia a half-century ago.

Regional powers fill in – no risk of conflict Sapolsky, ’97, – Prof PolSci, MIT Security Studies Program (Harvey and Daryl Press – Prof Government, Dartmouth – and Eugene Gholz – Research Associate, MIT Security Studies Program, “Come Home, America”, International Security 21.4, jstor, DKreus)

In today's world, disengagement will not cause great power... encourage European and Asian regional cooperation.

====2NC Authors Biased==== 
Be skeptical of their claims
Layne, ’06—pol sci prof, A&M (Christopher, The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present, Cornell University Press, p. 185-186, DKreus)

The fundamental problem with all these scenarios, both historical... U.S. officials have cried wolf way too many times in the past.

Their arguments are hype
Sapolsky, ’06—public policy, MIT—Ben Friedman (Harvey, You Never Know(ism), [[http://www.comw.org/qdr/fulltext/06friedman.pdf]], DKreus)
There is a new enemy stalking the United States. No one... Both inter-state war and civil war are in decline.6
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]