==Affirmative== 

==Contention 1 - Inherency== 
===With the ratification of the START treaty, the Obama administration has been downsizing it’s missile defense program – the increasing amount of rogue proliferation has only increased the severity of the issue=== 
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spring 11 </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">**Baker Spring, Research Fellow in National Security Policy at The Heritage Foundation, master’s degree in national security studies from Georgetown University, “Sixteen Steps to Compromise Missile Defense: What the FY 2012 Budget Should Fund”, May 3rd 2011, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/05/Sixteen-Steps-to-Comprehensive-Missile-Defense-What-the-FY-2012-Budget-Should-Fund]]</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Obama</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Administration </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">made large-scale cuts ... </span>and weapons of mass destruction.


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Plan </span>**</span>== 
**Thus, the plan: TheUnited States Federal Government should increase funding to establish a ballistic missile defense program beyond the mesosphere.**
== == 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 2 - Deterrence</span>== 
===Despite calls for arms reduction and control, proliferation is occurring at a rapid rate with rogue regimes posing a hauntingly realistic threat to the international order=== 
===Brookes 11 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">PeterBrookes, Senior Fellow, National Security Affairs and Chung Ju-Yung Fellow for Policy Studies @ Heritage</span>, “<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Nukes, O 'Leads' & the World Laughs”, June 28th 2011 </span>=== 

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">President Obama's</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">"lead by example... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">road to zero" is a road to nowhere</span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__


===Scenario 1 is Korea=== 

===North Korea will have their own BMD within 5 years – this would further proliferation to other rogue states and is the most direct threat to the United States=== 
===Talent and Eaglen 11 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jim Talent, </span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">Distinguished Fellow at The Heritage Foundation, Graduate of Washington University in St. Louis graduated Order of the Coif from University of Chicago Law School in, and Mackenzie Eaglen, research fellow for national security studies at The Heritage Foundation, master's degree in national security studies, A Strong National Defense: The Armed Forces America Needs and What it Will Cost, April 5th, 2011, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/04/A-Strong-National-Defense-The-Armed-Forces-America-Needs-and-What-They-Will-Cost]]</span>**=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Although the status of its nuclear weapons ... </span>covert North Korean assistance.

=== === 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 160%;">Extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 160%;">Hayes 10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The international community is ... </span>from the international community.

==Scenario 2 is Iran== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Iran nuclearization is occurring and they can develop nuclear weapons in 2 years – this would inspire other Middle East countries to proliferate and enable terrorists access to nuclear weapons </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Talent and Eaglen 11</span>** <span style="font-size: 80%;">Jim Talent, Distinguished Fellow at The Heritage Foundation, Graduate of Washington University in St. Louis graduated Order of the Coif from University of Chicago Law School in, and Mackenzie Eaglen, research fellow for national security studies at The Heritage Foundation, master's degree in national security studies, A Strong National Defense: The Armed Forces America Needs and What it Will Cost, April 5th, 2011, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/04/A-Strong-National-Defense-The-Armed-Forces-America-Needs-and-What-They-Will-Cost]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The regime in </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Iran poses... </span>including Turkey and the Gulf states.

===Space missile defense is the best method to solve rogue missile attacks on the US by creating a shift from Cold War deterrence towards a protect and defend strategy that better suits the current geopolitical order=== 
===Spring 11<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Baker Spring, Research Fellow in National Security Policy at The Heritage Foundation, master’s degree in national security studies from Georgetown University, “Sixteen Steps to Compromise Missile Defense: What the FY 2012 Budget Should Fund”, May 3rd 2011, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/05/Sixteen-Steps-to-Comprehensive-Missile-Defense-What-the-FY-2012-Budget-Should-Fund]]</span>=== 
No program to establish...National Defense Authorization Act.

==Contention 3 is Space Leadership== 

===The failure of the US to take action on space militarization now will allow other rival powers the time to develop their own attempts at controlling space and challenge US leadership=== 
===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Everett C</span>. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is Associate Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the U.S. Air Force's School of Advanced Air and Space Studies,</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/sais_review/v026/26.1dolman.html, SAIS Review 26.1 163-175</span>=== 


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Seizing the initiative and...</span>burst of economic expansion.

===BMD allows for effective space control and excursion of leadership through 3 main ways –=== 
===1st is diplomacy –=== 
===BMD creates cooperation and assurance between the US and its allies=== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Spring 10 </span><span style="font-size: 70%;">Baker Spring, Research Fellow in National Security Policy at The Heritage Foundation, master’s degree in national security studies from Georgetown University, “The Obama Administrations Missile Defense Program Treading Water in Shark Infested Seas, April 8th 2010, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/04/The-Obama-Administrations-Ballistic-Missile-Defense-Program-Treading-Water-in-Shark-Infested-Seas]]</span></span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">International Cooperation**.** The BMDRR...</span>the missile defense program.

**2nd is Technological Advancement**
**The plan is key to revamping the aerospace industry – it creates incentives for technological and military advancement which are key to securing and developing space**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foreign Policy Analysis 09’</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">By an Independent Working Group (Co Chairmen: Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis Dr. William R. Van Cleave Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University), 2009 Report, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis</span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The U.S. science and...</span>which critical measurements are performed

===3rd is International Framework=== 
===We control sequencing – we get BMD before enemies and deploy weapons=== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">– </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Forces School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (US Military Transformation and Weapons in Space, <span style="color: #0000ef;">[[http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/Backgrounder%20Dolman%20US%20Weapons%20in%20Space.pdf]]</span></span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Weapons in Space and Hegemonic War...</span>at least for the time being.

**Control of space accesses every major impact – loss of space control jeopardizes all US policy initiatives and causes economic decline**
**Talent and Eaglen 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jim Talent, Distinguished Fellow at The Heritage Foundation, Graduate of Washington University in St. Louis graduated Order of the Coif from University of Chicago Law School in, and Mackenzie Eaglen, research fellow for national security studies at The Heritage Foundation, master's degree in national security studies, A Strong National Defense: The Armed Forces America Needs and What it Will Cost, April 5th, 2011, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/04/A-Strong-National-Defense-The-Armed-Forces-America-Needs-and-What-They-Will-Cost]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Space assets</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">and access...</span>America into economic decline.

==Contention 4 is Solvency== 

**The Brilliant Pebbles program proves the technological feasibility of the plan and that we can have space based missile defense fully operational in 3 years.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foreign Policy Analysis </span>09**’ By an Independent Working Group (Co Chairmen: Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis Dr. William R. Van Cleave Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University), 2009 Report, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]]</span>, The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Because space-based defenses...</span>19.1 billion in inflation-adjusted 2008 dollars

**The increased range and attack timing of SMD makes it a comparatively better policy option than that of current land based missile defense**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Howard </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kleinberg</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Prof Public and Intl. Affairs @ UNC Wilmington, April </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, “</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A Global Missile Defense Network: Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,” lexis</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nevertheless, all things considered... </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">and the Twenty -First Century."</span>
== == 
==Neosho 1AC== 
==Contention 1: The Status Quo== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. The rise of asymmetric warfare and the globalization of conflict has rendered traditional deterrence ineffective – in the future, the US military will need to maintain access to geographic hotspots and engage in active conflict resolution in order to maintain hegemony and develop both hard power and diplomacy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Barno 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">– (3/22/11, David, Lt. Gen (Ret.), senior adviser and senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, former overall U.S. commander in Afghanistan, “Military Power in a Disorderly World,” World Politics Review, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8259/military-power-in-a-disorderly-world]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The opening acts of the... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">world. Fewer</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">regions</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> will demand </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. However, commercial satellite stations remain vulnerable, which our military uses to support their space assets. These are the most likely targets for a major attack. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SSI, 10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">– Space Security Index published by a group of aerospace experts at </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://spacesecurity.org/|spacesecurity.org]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (August 2010, Governance Group and Advisory Group, “Space Security 2010”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://spacesecurity.org/|spacesecurity.org]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">,</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Satellite ground stations and communications ... </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">of their relative military capabilities</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">3. Despite status quo network security, these measures will inevitably fail. Technical challenges, including intermittent connectivity, lack of interoperability, and jamming difficulties pose serious risks </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Jonson et al, 8</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">- Thomas Jonson, Jonah Pezeshki, Victor Chao, Kristofer Smith, James Fazio, Booz Allen Hamilton (5/8, IEEE, APPLICATION OF DELAY TOLERANT NETWORKING (DTN) IN AIRBORNE NETWORKS,” pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">COI = Community of Interest</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Similar to other radio-based communications ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">environment, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">needs to be adopted</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"><span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 29px;">Plan</span></span>== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase the deployment of delay/disruption tolerant networking on its satellites, including but not limited to space based network nodes. Funding and enforcement will be through the Department of Defense. We reserve the right to clarify.</span>**

==**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 Solvency</span>**== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. Space based network nodes solve satellite vulnerability, network strain, and high latency issues. </span>=== 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> NSTAC 09</span>– (Nov. 2009, National Securtiy Telecommunications Advisory Committee, “NSTAC Report to the President on Commercial Satellite Communications Mission Assurance,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ncs.gov/nstac/reports/2009/NSTAC%20STF%20Report%20FINAL%2011302009.pdf]]</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The DoD is currently exploring... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">network communications over a satellite. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. Delay tolerant networking enables net-centric warfare, allowing for efficient airborne networking</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lee et al, 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">– Kevin C Lee, Adam Piechowicz, Mario Gerla: Department of Computer Science, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA; Abhishek Tiwari, Anurag Ganguli: UtopiaCompression Corporation; David Krzysiak: Air Force Research Lab, rome Research Site (1/14, “Delay Tolerant Mobility Aware Routing/MobilityDissemination Protocol for the Airborne Network,” pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Despite “airborne network</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(AN) topology... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">than battery operated MANET nodes</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"><span style="font-size: 150%; line-height: 20px;">Contention 3 Economy</span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> </span>
==Securing satellite and airborne networks is vital in preventing a major economic crisis== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. Military SATCOM, which is vital to global commerce, is vulnerable to uplink jamming </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bonner 10</span> – (Major Lincoln Bonner, USAF, award winner for original research, Air University, “Remotely Piloted Aerial System of Systems Survivability: A Defense-In-Depth Approach,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/display.aspx?mode=user&ModuleID=8cde2e88-3052-448c-893d-d0b4b14b31c4&Action=display_page&ObjectID=bc3e753a-c646-484b-a897-4991b78fd79e]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">RPAS and ITW/AA link segments...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">can create similar strategic effects</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. Satellite attacks would destroy the US economy </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Tucker, 8</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">– masters thesis presented to SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIESAIR UNIVERSITY; Lieutenant Colonel; also received a masters in military operational art and science from Air Command and Staff College; many military honors (Dennis P., “PRESERVING UNITED STATES DOMINANCE: THE BENEFITS OF WEAPONIZING THE HIGH GROUND.” Air University Research, downloaded from </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=299bb723-5d89-4d74-9a4e-bcc36ba5a9fe]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The positioning and navigation capabilities ... </span>**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">too often precedes military conflict</span>**
<span class="UnderlineChar"> </span>
==Contention 4 Seabasing== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. Precision targetting and advanced counter-ship technology has made ranged naval power projection impossible – the transition to littoral combat has made a return to seabasing essential to joint force power projection – our evidence cites military and intelligence consensus.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Work 06</span>– (2006, Robert, vice president for strategic studies at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Analysis (when written), adjunct professor at George Washington University, teaching defense analysis and roles and missions of the armed forces (when written), current US Under Secretary of the Navy, “Thinking About Seabasing: All Ahead, Slow,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/2006.03.01-Seabasing.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">If anything, the need to... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">for joint and naval planners</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. Net-centric warfare is inevitable, it’s only a matter of its effectiveness – implementation is key to sea-basing</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Groh, 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">– Professor of Information and Technology in Warfare in the Department of Distance Education at the U.S. Army War College, retired Armor Officer, D.Sc., Robert Morris University (Jeffrey L., “Chapter 23: The Network-Centric Warfare Journey: Realizing the Power of Information,” in The U.S. Army War College Guide to National Security Issues, Volume I: Theory of War and Strategy, 4th Ed., J. Boone Bartholomees, Jr., July 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scribd.com/doc/63365888/4thEditionStategyofWarSSI]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Now that the literature review ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">achieve synergy on the battlefield</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">3. Secure airborne ISR networks are the only prerequisite effective net centric warfare</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Goure 09</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">– (8/3/09, Daniel, PhD in International Relations and Russian Studies, Vice President with the Lexington Institute, a nonprofit public-policy research organization headquartered in Arlington, Virginia, “New Plan Shows Air Force Gets It On Airborne ISR,”</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/new-plan-shows-air-force-gets-it-on-airborne-isr]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">One of the most important ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">in the near and medium-term</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">
</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">
</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar"> </span>