[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===**Moral Equality AC**=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Definitions:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Response: [[http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/response]] **something constituting a reply or a reaction**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Use: [[http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/use]] </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">the act or practice of employing something</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Deliberate: Garner, Bryan A. “Black’s Law Dictionary: Second Pocket Edition.” St. Paul, MN: West Group, 2001 </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**“**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**intentional, premeditated**, fully considered **violen[ce]**t action known to **create a substantial risk of** causing **death or serious bodily harm.”**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Deadly Force: [[http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/domestic%20violence]] **the inflicting of physical injury by one family or household member on another; //also// : a repeated or habitual pattern of such behavior**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Domestic Violence: Aricchi AL. Breaking The Silence: Understanding Domestic Violence. 2003. Available at: http://scholarship.shu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1747&context=dissertations. Accessed January 3, 2012. **“**Domestic violence, or intimate partner violence, is commonly defined as **physical, sexual, or emotional threats or** violence perpetrated **by a batterer** against **an intimate partner** in an attempt to exert control**.”**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">V=Morally Permissible Response</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Humans must maintain equal moral status</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Jamieson D. What, if Anything, Renders all Humans Morally Equal? Peter Singer and His Critics. 1999:1-19. **“**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the basis of human equality is…</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">morally status-conferring equality.”</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">S= Preserving Moral Equality</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Show affirming takes more effective steps towards standard than negating</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thesis/C1: Deadly force allows victim to reassert status as moral equal</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Isolation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">McGee, Susan G. S. 2005. 20 Reasons Why She Stays: A Guide for Those Who Want to Help Battered Women. Available, [[http://stopviolence.com/domviol/whytheystay.htm]] **“**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Some battered women stay…</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">keep women in battering situations.”</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ayyildiz E. When Battered Woman’s Syndrome Does Not Go Far Enough: The Battered Woman as Vigilante. Journal of Gender & The Law. 1995;4(14):141-166. Available at: http://heinonlinebackup.com/hol-cgi-bin/get_pdf.cgi?handle=hein.journals/ajgsp4§ion=9. Accessed January 3, 2012.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“In addition to believing…</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> escape the abuse.”</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Escalation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Durant N, Oklahoma Department of Human Services Family Support Services Division. Domestic Violence Awareness Guide. 2008. **“**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">As the battering pattern progresses… more controlling and possessive.” “Domestic violence escalates…</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> the use of weapons.”</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Mega LT, Mega JL, Mega BT, Harris BM. Brainwashing and battering fatigue. Psychological abuse in domestic violence. North Carolina medical journal. 2000;61(5):260-5. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11008456. **“**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The unprovoked nature…</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">psychological and physical pain.”</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ayyildiz2: **“**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Deadly force on the part of the battered woman…</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">a vicious retaliation by the abuser.”</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3. Legal protection</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wimberly, Mary. Defending Victims of Domestic Violence Who Kill Their Batterers: Using the Trial Expert to Change Social Norms. American Bar Association. 2007. Available at: http://www.abanet.org/domviol/docs/Wimberly.pdf [Accessed December 6, 2011]. **“Empirical, historical, and sociological evidence…**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">no other choice.”</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ayyildiz3: **“Under social contract theory… deserve physical protection.”**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ayyildiz4: **“Accountability is another concern…**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> not escape unknown or unacknowledged.”</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">4. Only option</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Toffel, Hope. “Crazy women, Unharmed Men, and Evil Children: Confronting the Myths about Battered People who Kill their abusers, and the argument for extending battering syndrome self-defenses to all victims of domestic violence.” © 1996 Southern California Law Review. University of Southern California November, 1996. 70 S Cal L Rev. 337. </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“These traditional self-defense requirements are problematic for women…</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **does not make allowances for these realities.”**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Aricchi AL. Breaking The Silence: Understanding Domestic Violence. 2003. Available at: [[http://scholarship.shu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1747&amp;context=dissertations]].</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Public opinion about domestic violence…of domestic violence.”</span>**
==Negative== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">**Checks NC**</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">V-moral permissibility</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">VC-preserving external checks on actions</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">con 1-victim is an unfair judge of actions of the individual</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">-need society to determine what is right through a consensus of individuals, so vigilantism fails because it asserts the opinion of one over the consensus of society</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Hine K. Vigilantism Revisited: An Economic Analysis of the Law of Extra-Judical Self-Help or Why Can’t Dick Shoot Henry for Stealing Jane's Truck? American University Law Review. 1997;47(1221):1221 - 1254. **“**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">As in defining vigilantism…</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">vigilante action promote extremism.”</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rosen, Cathyrn. **Article: The excuse of self-defense: correcting a historical accident on behalf of battered women who kill.** Assistant Professor of Criminal Justice, Temple University. B.A. Case Western Reserve Univesity; J.D., LL. M. Temple University School of Law. © 1986 The American University Law Review.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **“**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The constant decline… battered woman’s defense cases</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">.”</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Overview: Deadly force must be proven not to be the only option but the proper option.</span>
=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]