[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==1AC-Vegetable Lasagna (Wake Forest-all prelims, Monticello-all prelims)== 
I affirm: Justice requires the recognition of animal rights.

<span style="color: #000000;">The Free Dictionary defines animal rights as<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>:</span>
**__<span style="color: #000000;">Protection of animals from cruelty through requirements of humane treatment. </span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">Laws protecting animal rights proscribe certain forms of brutal and merciless treatment of animals in medical and scientific research and in the handling of and slaughter of animals for human consumption.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Prefer reasonable aff interps </span>
<span style="color: #000000;">1. Time skew</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">2. Strat skew</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">3. Empirical neg bias</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">V-justice-Plato-give each their due</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">VC-Respecting sentience</span>
First, granting rights based off of species is arbitrary and ignores one’s inherent value. The species a creature belongs to has no bearing on whether they have rights. Species does not determine interests or welfare, both of which are involved with rights. Cavaleri states[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"Nonetheless, it is just ...</span> **__therefore equally unacceptable."__**

Second, drawing the line for consideration of others anywhere else but sentience is wrong – just as racism and sexism are. Singer writes[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">If a being suffers ... </span>**__identical in each case. "__**

Third, deciding what beings deserve rights based off of intelligence or cognitive capacity should be rejected. This would justify harm to humans that are mentally disabled and lack intelligence. Under this view, they would lack rights and anything could be done to them. Being a sentient creature is the only proper standard for rights. Singer continues[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]:
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="color: #000000;">"In case there ...</span>__****__<span style="color: #000000;"> treating nonhumans in this way."</span>__**</span>

Fourth, presume the aff framework because the moral costs of being incorrect on the question of animal rights are uncalcuable. As long as there is a non-negligible risk of sentience a creature deserves rights. Kriegel states[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]:
**__<span style="color: #000000;">"Scientific knowledge</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">, being ... </span>**__<span style="color: #000000;">committing moral horrors.</span>__**
**"**
Thus I contend that animals are sentient.

A. Science reveals that animals and humans are neurologically similar. Animals have similar mental experiences as humans. Allen explains[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]:
**__"Neurological similarities between humans ...__** <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">the nature of animal experience (Grandin 1995, 2004)."</span>

B. Animals are capable of suffering just as humans are. Therefore animals have the right not to suffer. Gruen states[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"Contemporary </span>**__utilitarians, such ...__** **__are morally considerable."__**

C. Animals pursue interests and ends just as humans do and that give their lives value. Korsgaard writes[[home#_ftn8|[8]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"There is a more general, **__...__** </span>**__respect them as ends-in-themselves."__**

D. Studies prove animals can make moral claims-rhesus monkeys suffered hunger so they could avoid harming other monkeys. Rachels states[[home#_ftn9|[9]]]:
"But **__some animals have__** ... **__suffered really terrible hunger."__**

E. Animals will send signs that they are in distress-pigs and tail-chewing prove. Fraser states[[home#_ftn10|[10]]]:
**__"For animals kept ...__** **__well-being in numerous ways__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">(Luescher et al.,1989)."</span>
----
[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(The Free Dictionary. Animal Rights. Legal dictionary. 2011. http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Animal+Rights)</span>
[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]] <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Cavaleri, Paolo (2001). The Animal Question: Why Nonhuman Animals Deserve Human Rights.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Oxford: Oxford University Press. p. 72-73</span>
[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Peter Singer, Professor of Philosophy Monash University, 1995, Animal Liberation, p. 8-9</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span> (Peter Singer. All Animals Are Equal. Animal Rights and Human Obligations. New Jersey: Prentice-Hall, 1989, pp. 148-162 .)
[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]] <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Kriegel, Uriah (forthcoming). "Animal Rights: A Non-consequentialist Approach" In K. Petrus& M. Wild (eds.), //Animal Minds and Animal Morals//.</span>
[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]] <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Allen, Colin [Professor of History and Philosophy of Science at Indiana University, Bloomington], "Animal Consciousness", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2011 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = [[http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2011/entries/consciousnessanimal/]].</span>
[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Gruen, Lori [Professor of Philosophy, Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, and Environmental Studies at Wesleyan University], "The Moral Status of Animals", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2010 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2010/entries/moral-animal/>.</span>
[[home#_ftnref8|[8]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (Christine Korsgaard [Arthur Kinglsey Porter Professor of Philosophy at Harvard]. Exploiting Animals:</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">A Philosophical Protest. AV Magazine. Fall 2009. P. 2. http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~korsgaar/CMK.Exploiting.Animals.pdf)</span>
[[home#_ftnref9|[9]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (James Rachels. Do Animals Have a Right to Liberty?. In TOM REGAN & PETER SINGER (eds.), </span><span class="workreferencetitle1" style="font-size: 13.33px;">Animal Rights and Human Obligations</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">, Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, 1976, pp. 205-223. [[http://www.animal-rights-library.com/texts-m/rachels02.htm]])</span>
[[home#_ftnref10|[10]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">David Fraser [Research Scientist Centre for Food and Animal Research Agriculture Canada]. ASSESSING ANIMAL WELL BEING:COMMON SENSE, UNCOMMON SCIENCE. http://hub.ansc.purdue.edu/wellbeing/FAWB1993/Fraser.pdf)</span>
==1AC-LARP (Bronx-all prelims)== 
<span style="color: #000000;">I affirm.</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Observation one is the framework. The government is the actor in the resolution. First, Humphrey defines animal rights as<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>:</span>
**__<span style="color: #000000;">"The claim that animals ... </span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">capacities of a species."</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Thus the aff must defend a political policy. Second, governments are the only ones that can actually grant animals rights and can enforce and protect these rights through laws. Animal rights can’t actually exist without government action. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;">V-just governance</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">VC-utilitarianism. First, government officials </span>specifically must act through utilitarianism because they can only make decisions based on the good of the public. Goodin states[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]:
<span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">"My larger argument ... </span><span style="font-size: 10.66px; text-decoration: none;">chose general rules or conduct."</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The very risk of extinction outweighs any consideration – universal morality demands my impact comes first. Seeley writes[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]:</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">"In moral reasoning ... </span>**__sane moral code."__**</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Thus justice requires the recognition of animal rights if it passes a utilitarian calculus. </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Observation two is inherency.</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">The Navy currently employs Low Frequency Active sonar but </span><span style="color: #252323;">the brink is now. Current regulations on LFA end in a year and the Navy is pushing to use LFA in 75% of the world’s oceans. Smith 9/29/11<span style="color: #252323;">[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]</span>:</span>
<span style="color: #252323; font-size: 10.66px;">"Comments on the National Marine Fisheries Service’s ... </span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">This story is far from over…"</span>
Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should ban the Navy’s use of Low-Frequency Active sonar. Links must be specific to the plan. Aff reserves the right to clarify.
Solvency:
LFA disrupts whales’ and dolphins’ hearing systems which interferes with their life functions and causes mass death. This is conceded by the Navy. The National Resources Defense Council writes[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"In March 2000, ... confirm the risks."</span>
Green provides a laundry list of reasons why LFA risks marine mammal extinction[[home#_ftn8|[8]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"The Marine Mammal Commission, **__...__** eaten by other predators."</span>

The impact is global extinction.
A. Whales are key to maintaining the amount of plankton in the sea which influences Earth’s oxygen supply. This is necessary to support human life. Barstow explains[[home#_ftn9|[9]]]:
**__"Whales are at the top ...__** **__by whale consumption. "__**

B. Whales and dolphins are key to maintaining biodiversity. They indicate ecosystem health and eliminate infected fish. Mundo Azul states[[home#_ftn10|[10]]]:
<span class="texto01principal1">**__<span style="font-size: 12px;">"The conservation of whales ... </span>__**</span>**__sustainable fisheries."__**

Biodiversity is key to preventing extinction-it cycles chemicals that support life. Craig 03[[home#_ftn11|[11]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"Biodiversity and ecosystem function ... out of business as a result."</span>
----

[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Matthew Humphrey [Oxford Dictionary of Politics]. animal rights. Oxford Dictionary of Politics. http://www.answers.com/topic/animal-rights)</span>
[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Goodin, fellow in philosophy at Australian National Defense University, 1990 (Robert, “The Utilitarian Response”, p. 141-2)</span>
[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Harsanyi, prof. of economics at UC Berkeley, 1982 (John, “Utilitarianism and Beyond”, p. 26-7)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Seeley, central committee for conscientious objectors, 1986 (Robert, “The Handbook of Non-Violence”, p. 269-70)</span></span>
[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Navy Office of Information. Navy Responds to Recent LFA Sonar Ruling. 2/7/2008. http://www.navy.mil/search/display.asp?story_id=34854)</span>
[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Zak Smith [Attorney, Mammal Marine Protection Project]. </span><span style="color: #252323; font-size: 13.33px;">This Week in Whales. SWiTCHBOARD National Resources Defense Council Staff Blog. 9/29/11. http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/zsmith/this_week_in_whales_6.html</span>
[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (The National Resources Defense Council. Navy Sonar System Threatens Whales. [[http://wellnessgoods.com/navysonar.asp]])</span>
[[home#_ftnref8|[8]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Marsha L. Green [Ph.D.Ocean Mammal Institute]. The US Navy's Low Frequency Active Sonar: Cause for Concern. http://www.oceanmammalinst.com/mgpaper.html#lfa9798)</span>
[[home#_ftnref9|[9]]](Robbins Barstow [PhD, Volunteer Executive Director, Cetacean Society International]. "BEYOND WHALE SPECIES SURVIVAL"Peaceful Coexistence and Mutual Enrichment as a Basis for Human/ Cetacean Relations. SONAR, The Magazine of the Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society, No. 2, Autumn.1989. (from a paper presented to the Mammal Society Symposium in London, November1988). 1989.http://www.highnorth.no/library/movements/general/be-wh-s2.htm)[[home#_ftnref10|[10]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Mundo Azul. Dolphins and whales. http://www.mundoazul.org/deutsch/dolphins_whales0.htm)</span>
[[home#_ftnref11|[11]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Robin Kundis Craig [Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law]. Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii. McGeorge Law Review/Vol. 34 2003/Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection?. 2003. SSRN.)</span>
=<span style="font-size: 13.33px; line-height: 0px; overflow: hidden;">1AR-Losing Voice Theory (Bronx Rd 7 vs. Lexington JC)</span>= 
<span style="font-size: 13.33px; line-height: 0px; overflow: hidden;">A. Interp: The neg may not run multiple offs and spread when the aff is losing their voice.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.33px; line-height: 0px; overflow: hidden;">B. Violation: The neg ran multiple offs and spread and I am losing my voice.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.33px; line-height: 0px; overflow: hidden;">C. Standards:</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.33px; line-height: 0px; overflow: hidden;">1AR Coverage</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.33px; line-height: 0px; overflow: hidden;">D. Voter: Fairness</span>
==Negative== 
==1NC-Cohen (Wake Forest-all prelims, Monticello-all prelims, Bronx-all prelims)== 
I negate Resolved: Justice requires the recognition of animal rights.

V-justice-Plato-giving each their due.

VC-respecting moral autonomy, or the ability to make moral choices, laws, or claims. Possession of moral autonomy is necessary to have rights because rights are within a community of moral agents. Cohen explains[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]:
<span style="text-decoration: none;">"</span>**__A right__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, properly **__...__** persons, human beings."</span>

I contend that animals lack moral autonomy. Rights involve moral laws and can only be defended by humans. Animals are unable to make moral choices, make moral laws or make moral claims. Moral autonomy is a distinctly human obligation toward others. Cohen continues[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]:
**__"The attributes of human beings ...__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> have none to violate."</span>

However, this does not justify doing anything we want to animals. Humans can respect animals and protect them from harm without giving them any rights or entitlements. They should be treated humanely but do not have the right to be treated humanely. Cohen continues[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]:
**__"It does not follow from ...__** **__the holders of rights."__**
----
[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (Carl Cohen [professor at the University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor]. The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research. The New England Journal of Medicine 314 [1986], 865-869. 1986. Pp. 94-95. http://www.rw.ttu.edu/6002%20ethics/pdf/Cohen.pdf)</span>
[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (Carl Cohen [professor at the University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor]. The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research. The New England Journal of Medicine 314 [1986], 865-869. 1986. Pp. 94-95. http://www.rw.ttu.edu/6002%20ethics/pdf/Cohen.pdf)</span>
[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Carl Cohen [professor at the University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor]. The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research. The New England Journal of Medicine 314 [1986], 865-869. 1986. P. 95. [[http://www.rw.ttu.edu/6002%20ethics/pdf/Cohen.pdf]])</span>
==T-Aff Must Defend All Animals (Wake Forest Rd 1 vs. Starr's Mill JN, Monticello Rd 4 vs. Hunter College)== 
A. Interpretation: The aff can specify a specific way to protect animal rights or a specific right, but cannot specify a specific animal to recognize the rights of.
B. Violation: The aff parametricizes to protect the rights of [insert animal.]
C. Standards:
1. Predictability and limits.
2. Ground.
a. DA ground-veterbrate DA, key tool to test aff
D. Voter: Fairness.
==T-Aff Must Defend Implementation (Bronx Rd 2 vs. Stuyvesant AE, Rd 5 vs. DuPont Manual MM)== 
A. Interpretation: The aff must defend implementation of animal rights. <span style="color: #000000;">Humphrey defines animal rights as<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>:</span>
**__<span style="color: #000000;">"The claim that animals ... </span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">capacities of a species."</span>

B. Violation: The aff does not defend implementation.

C. Standards:
1. DA ground.

2. Strat skew.
A. Utilitarian frameworks.
B. It forces the neg to rely on a stock argument like my NC.
3. Reciprocal research burdens.
D.Voter:Fairness.
----
[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Matthew Humphrey [Oxford Dictionary of Politics]. animal rights. Oxford Dictionary of Politics. http://www.answers.com/topic/animal-rights)</span>
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==1AC-Morality Police (Ohio Valley-All Aff Prelims and Octas vs. Mountain Brook AC)== 
I affirm: Individuals have a moral obligation to assist people in need.
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
The value is morality because the resolution questions individuals’ moral obligations. Morality is defined by the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy as[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"The term “morality” ... </span> **__all rational persons."__**

The value criterion is respecting legal obligations. If individuals have a legal obligation to assist people in need then they have a moral obligation. First, morality is shaped by law. Laws help determine what actions are moral. Christie writes[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"There is, however,... common modern phenomenon."</span>

Second, judges use morality to determine the law. Spaak explains[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]:
**__"The primary task ...__** **__to //legislative efficiency//."__**

Fourth is the social contract. Citizens of a government enter into a social contract with their government. The government protects the citizens’ rights and the citizens follow the government’s laws in exchange. Per the social contract if the government’s laws obligate citizens to do something, the citizens are morally obliged to follow that law unless the law and government is unjust, in which case the citizens would overthrow the government. Also, the reciprocal obligation of the social contract calls for citizens to help each other and protect each other in order to advance society.

Contention one: Individuals are legally obligated to assist people in need because of duty to rescue laws.

Shelto defines duty to rescue laws[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]:
**__"Continental legal systems__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, ... </span>**__cause or nature."__**

Duty to rescue laws exist in the US as well-Vermont, Minnesota, automobile accident, and police example.

Societal norms require adherence to duty to rescue laws. D’Amato writes[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"In any case,.. </span> **__distinctly societal interest.__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">30"</span>

Individuals are legally, and therefore morally, obligated to assist people in need.

Contention two: Duty to rescue laws are effective.

Duty to rescue laws can increase the number of lives saved for four reasons. Silver explains[[home#_ftn8|[8]]]:
**__"The strongest argument ...__** **__would go undetected. "__**

Contention three: Individuals would rationally agree to a duty to rescue law.

Guarantees rescue for them if ever in need.

Thus, since individuals have a legal obligation to follow duty to rescue laws and duty to rescue laws improve society and save lives, I affirm.

----
[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. The Definition of Morality. 3/14/11. http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/morality-definition/)</span>
[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(George C. Christie [James B. Duke Professor of Law, Duke University School of Law]. On The Moral Obligation To Obey The Law. Duke Law Journal [Vol. 1990:1311] 1990. Pp. 1319-1321.)</span>
[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (Lea Ypi [Nuffield College, Oxford, UK]. Justice and morality beyond naïve Cosmopolitanism. Ethics & Global Politics Vol. 3, No. 3, 2010, pp. 171_192. 2010. http://www.ethicsandglobalpolitics.net/index.php/egp/article/view/5487)</span>
[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Torben Spaak [Uppsala University - Faculty of Law].Legal Positivism and the Objectivity of Law. Analisi e diritto 2004, a cura di P. Comanducci e R. Guastini. 2004. Pp. 259-261. http://www.giuri.unige.it/intro/dipist/digita/filo/testi/analisi_2004/18spaak.pdf)</span>
[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Dinah Shelto [Prof. of Law, University of Santa Clara] “The Duty to Assist Famine Victims” IOWA LAW REVIEW, vol. 70, 1985 </span>
[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Dinah Shelto [Prof. of Law, University of Santa Clara] “The Duty to Assist Famine Victims” IOWA LAW REVIEW, vol. 70, 1985 </span>
[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Anthony D’Amato [Prof. of Law, Northwestern University] “The “Bad Samaritan” Northwestern University Law Review Paradigm” Vol. 70, No. 5, 1976, p. 805-7 </span>
[[home#_ftnref8|[8]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Jay Silver [J.D. 1981 Vanderbilt University] “The Duty to Rescue: A Reexamination and Proposal” William and Mary Law Review. Vol. 26, Issue 3, 1985. </span>
</span>
----

==Negative== 
==1NC-Autonomy (Ohio Valley All Neg Prelims)== 
I negate: Individuals have a moral obligation to assist people in need.

The value is morality because the resolution questions individuals’ moral obligations.
The value criterion is respecting autonomy, or one’s ability to exercise their freedom and make decisions for themselves. One has to have autonomy in order to act morally. First, the sole purpose of morality is to determine whether one’s choices are good or bad. All actions result from choices which are judged by morality. Second, being a moral agent involves the ability to make moral choices. If one is forced against their will and does not make moral choices on their own, they cannot morally be held responsible for their choices since they were forced against their will. Third, all moral systems require that individuals have the ability to make their own choices and all view violations of autonomy as immoral. Fourth, restricting autonomy disrespects one’s inherent value because it takes away their right to choose for themselves.
Regis Jr. defines how individuals can morally exercise their autonomy<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"On the view .. the interests of others."</span>

Thus individuals should be able to act to increase their happiness and to choose their own moral obligations.
Contention one: Forcing individuals to assist people in need violates individuals’ autonomy. Individuals should be able to choose their moral obligations but affirming forces one upon them. A moral obligation to assist people in need views people as tools to be sacrificed. Rand writes<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"These three schools ... </span> **__are achieving now."__**
Forcing the moral obligation violates authentic benevolence. Rand continues<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span>:
**__"By elevating the ... his loved ones."__**
Contention two: A moral obligation to assist people in need harms society.
<span style="color: #000000;">Helping others is dangerous because we could cause more harm since we are not informed of other’s needs. It violates privacy and encourages those in need to become dependent and unproductive. Rachels explains Rand's view<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]</span>:</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">"The first argument **__...__** social be the same.”</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Assisting people in need causes those in need to become dependent on others and bringdown society with them. Societal advancement protects autonomy because the stronger a society is, the better equipped it is to make sure everyone’s autonomy is protected, but if it is weak it cannot do this. It also gives everyone a better chance to improve themselves and thus increase their autonomy. </span>

----
[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. The Definition of Morality. 3/14/11. http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/morality-definition/)</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Edward Regis Jr., “Ethical Egoism and Moral Responsibility”, American Philosophical Quarterly, Volume 16, No. 1, January 1979. </span>
[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Ayn Rand, The Virtue of Selfishness, New York: Penguin Books, 1964.</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Ayn Rand, The Virtue of Selfishness, New York: Penguin Books, 1964. </span>
<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Ayn Rand, The Virtue of Selfishness, New York: Penguin Books, 1964. </span>
[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.33px;">James Rachels, Philosophy Professor University of Alabama @ Birmingham, 1993, The Elements of Moral Philosophy, p. 78-9</span>

==Hindu Funerals DA (Ohio Valley Rd 3 vs. Mountain Brook AC)== 
Uniqueness: Currently, many poor Hindus can’t purchase funeral pyres because they are in poverty and are victims of extortion when they try to buy the pyres. Hays 11[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]:
**__"In addition to ...__** **__end up half-burned. "__**

Link: If Hindus in poverty are assisted and get money, they will use it to buy funeral pyres. It is one of the most important things to them and is an essential part of their religion. Hays continues[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"There are about ... in the afterlife."</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Internal Link: The burning of funeral pyres releases massive amounts of greenhouse gases and ruins the environment. The Voice of Russia 9/19/11<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>:</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">"India’s Hindu tradition ... </span>**__<span style="color: #000000;">dirtier and dirtier."</span>__**
<span style="color: #000000;">Impact: Greenhouse gases, environmental damage, and global warming will cause global disaster. The poor will be hurt the most turning the case. Min 07<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span>:</span>
"Some scientists even __**...** **people,' he said."**__
----
[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Jeffrey Hays [teacher and writer, graduated from Wesleyan University, had some pieces published in the Washington Post, the NME, The Face and other publications, worked overseas as an English teacher.] HINDU FUNERALS, CREMATION AND VARANASI. Facts and Details. 3/11.http://factsanddetails.com/world.php?itemid=1343&catid=55&subcatid=354)</span>
[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Jeffrey Hays [teacher and writer, graduated from Wesleyan University, had some pieces published in the Washington Post, the NME, The Face and other publications, worked overseas as an English teacher.] HINDU FUNERALS, CREMATION AND VARANASI. Facts and Details. 3/11.http://factsanddetails.com/world.php?itemid=1343&catid=55&subcatid=354)</span>
[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(The Voice of Russia. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.33px;">The burning issue of India's funeral pyres. The Voice of Russia. 9/19/11.http://english.ruvr.ru/2011/09/19/56390907.html)</span>
[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Neo Hui Min [Straits Times Europe Bureau]. Billions face dire risk from global warming, say experts. [[http://www.straitstimes.com/vgn-ext-templating/v/index.jsp?|Straits Times]]. 4/7/07. http://www.wildsingapore.com/news/20070304/070406-14.htm#st)</span>
== == 
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==1AC-Heidegger (Emory-all prelims and Doubles vs. Scarsdale GK)== 
I affirm.

The neg must prove the textual converse of the resolution that it is not morally permissible for victims to use deadly force. Textuality is key to fairness because it determines what the topic lit and ground is. If the neg doesn’t abide by the text of the resolution they can be completely unpredictable giving the aff little chance of winning. 
Deadly force is defined by the Legal-Dictionary hosted by the Free Dictionary as<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>:
**//__An amount of force that is likely to cause either serious bodily injury or death to another person.__//**
Deliberate is defined by Webster’s New World Dictionary as<span style="color: #000000; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>:
**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"Deliberate</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">: “1) carefully thought out ... unhurried and methodical” </span>
<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Meyersfeld defines domestic violence as<span style="color: #000000; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 14.66px;">[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>:</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"Generally</span>**__domestic violence is ...__** <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">exigency of violence escalates."</span>

If you want another interp or definition, ask in cross-ex and I’ll grant it.

The value is morality because the resolution questions the moral permissibility of an action. Ontological systems of morality come first because morality needs to make assumptions about ontology in order to function and ontology is necessary to shape action. Dillon writes<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span>:
"<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">As Heidegger-himself an especially ... technocrats of decision making."</span>

Existence and being in the world is a state known as “Dasein.” [dah-sine] Critchley summarizes Heidegger<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]</span>:
**__"Heidegger's name for ...__** **__not distinguish ourselves."__**

There are two forms of Dasein-authentic and inauthentic. Inauthentic Dasein is also known as the “they”. Hornsby explains Heidegger<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]</span>:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"Not everything is possible ... Dasein bars its own way.” </span>

The standard is rejecting the “they.” Any system of morality requires a rejection of the “they” and inauthentic Dasein because otherwise morality can’t exist. Everything can be blamed on the “they” destroying moral responsibility. Hornsby 2<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]</span>:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"For Heidegger,</span> **__the ...__** <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">inauthentic human existence (Steiner 1978)."</span>

Therefore any action that rejects the “they” is morally permissible and the aff burden is to prove that a victim’s use of deadly force against domestic violence rejects the “they.”

Contention one: Confronting mortality. Confronting the limits of mortality allows one to understand the finitude of life, rejecting the “they” and creating authentic life. Critchley 2<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftn8|[8]]]</span>:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"That said, the basic idea ... calls "ecstatic temporality"."</span>

Unlike some theories of “being-towards-death” experiencing the death of others can allow us to become authentic. Critchley 3<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftn9|[9]]]</span>:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"Despite its baroque linguistic ...</span> **__grief and mourning."__**

A victim’s use of deadly force against domestic violence confronts mortality for 4 reasons:
1. By using force that can cause death the victim is forced violate the mortality of the abuser, making them realize the finitude of human life.
2. The victim’s use of deadly force is intended to protect their own mortality.
3. The link is supercharged since the deadly force is deliberate and premeditated. The victim has to think over the intentional taking of another’s life and must consider issues of mortality. This causes a confrontation of mortality regardless of whether the force worked.
4. By having force that could kill them used against them, the abuser is forced to confront their own mortality and the possibility of dying as a result of following the “they.”

Contention two: Angst. Angst rejects the “they” because it leads us to question our role in the world. Hornsby 3<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftn10|[10]]]</span>: 
"<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Inauthentic Dasein does not live ... </span>**__repudiation of the ‘theyness’.”__** 

A victim’s use of deadly force causes angst because the victim is likely to face much stress over the possibility of harming another and it is a stressful decision to make. The victim will face much worrying and distress while going through the decision process.

Underview one: Skep flows because if there are no moral rules then everything is morally permissible. If there are no moral rules then nothing can be morally prohibited and therefore everything would be morally permissible.

Underview two: Theory pre-empts. First,<span style="color: #000000;"> don’t vote off of aff violations of fairness as long as the neg has stock ground. The neg won around 64% of elims at Octas bid tournaments from doubles on before vbt where the best debaters are evenly matched. Even if the aff violates fairness they are only evening out the neg advantage and making it closer to 50-50 in the round. This leads to more fairness because it gives each an equal advantage.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">There are two additional neg biases. A. Time skew-the aff only has 4 and 3 minutes to respond to 7 and 6 minute neg speeches allowing the neg to completely spread the aff out and B. Strat skew- the neg can adapt their strat to the AC, an advantage the aff doesn’t enjoy. These biases have 4 implications for the round:</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">1. Prefer reasonable aff interps.</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">2. Any “I meet” or offense on a neg theory interp is sufficient to affirm.</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">3. Only the aff gets RVIs because if the neg gets RVIs any aff that ran theory is practically forced to go all in on theory in the 2AR even if it isn’t the best strategy.</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">4. Absent offense presume aff because the aff had to overcome structural barriers.</span>

----
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 13.33px;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The Legal-Dictionary hosted by the Free Dictionary.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.33px;"> Deadly Force. The Free Dictionary by Farlex. http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Deadly+Force)</span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 13.33px;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> [//Webster’s New World Dictionary//. 1988. New York: Simon & Schuster, Inc.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.06px;">4</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[Meyersfeld, Bonita. 2003. “Reconceptualizing Domestic Violence in International Law.” //Albany Law Review//. 67:371.]</span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 13.33px;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (Michael Dillon [Professor of Politics and Director of the Institute for Cultural Research at the University of Lancaster. Co-editor of the Institute’s journal, Cultural Values]. The Scandal of the Refugee: Some Reflections on the “Inter” of Inter-national Relations and Continental Thought. Moral Spaces rethinking ethics and world politics. Eds. David Campbell and Michael J. Shapiro. Pp. 97-98. 1999. [[http://books.google.com/books?id=zgQhA-HBNuwC&pg=PR7&lpg=PR7&dq=Moral+Spaces&source=bl&ots=o8Yh1g4EEu&sig=iJGWRz7jUhC5U7qNRPrrpXlZJ6w&hl=en&sa]]= &ei=jDIbT43SEaX10gHM1MDMCw&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAw#v=onepage&q&f=false)</span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 13.33px;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Simon Critchley [</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 13.33px;">philosopher, teaches at The New School in New York]. </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Being and Time, part 1: Why Heidegger matters. theguardian. 6/8/09. http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/belief/2009/jun/05/heidegger-philosophy)</span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 13.33px;">[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Roy Hornsby [PhD scholar through the UQ Graduate School and the School of Political Science & International Studies in the Faculty of Social and Behavioural Sciences at The University of Queensland].What Heidegger Means by //Being-in-the-World//. No date. http://royby.com/philosophy/pages/dasein.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Roy Hornsby [PhD scholar through the UQ Graduate School and the School of Political Science & International Studies in the Faculty of Social and Behavioural Sciences at The University of Queensland].What Heidegger Means by //Being-in-the-World//. No date. http://royby.com/philosophy/pages/dasein.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 13.33px;">[[home#_ftnref8|[8]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Simon Critchley [</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 13.33px;">philosopher, teaches at The New School in New York]. </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Being and Time, part 1: Why Heidegger matters. theguardian. 6/8/09. http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/belief/2009/jun/05/heidegger-philosophy)</span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 13.33px;">[[home#_ftnref9|[9]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Simon Critchley [</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 13.33px;">philosopher, teaches at The New School in New York]. </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Being and Time part 6: Death. theguardian. 7/13/09.http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/belief/2009/jul/13/heidegger-being-time?intcmp=239)</span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftnref10|[10]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Roy Hornsby [PhD scholar through the UQ Graduate School and the School of Political Science & International Studies in the Faculty of Social and Behavioural Sciences at The University of Queensland].What Heidegger Means by //Being-in-the-World//. No date. http://royby.com/philosophy/pages/dasein.html)</span>
==1AC-Self Defense (Pitt-all prelims and finals vs. North Allegheny, Lexington Rd 1 vs. Regis and Rd 6 vs. Trinity Prep)== 
I affirm: It is morally permissible for victims to use deadly force as a deliberate response to repeated domestic violence. Deadly force is defined by the Legal-Dictionary hosted by the Free Dictionary as[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]:
**//__An amount of force that is likely to cause either serious bodily injury or death to another person.__//**
Deliberate is defined by Webster’s New World Dictionary as<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>:
**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"Deliberate</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">: “1) carefully thought out ... unhurried and methodical” </span>
<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Meyersfeld defines domestic violence as<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>:</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">“Generally</span>**__domestic violence ...__** <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">of violence escalates.” </span>

The value is morality because the resolution questions the moral permissibility of an action. The value criterion is respecting the right to self defense. The right to self defense is necessary to uphold the equality of all human beings and recognizes all people as morally autonomous beings, recognizing human worth. Schopp explains[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]:
**__"The moral justification ...__** <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">an innocent party." </span>

All moral codes, even deontology, would grant the right to self defense because otherwise the right to life has no meaning. Wallerstein 05[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]:
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000;">**__"Starting from the premise__** ... **__defending one’s autonomy."__**</span></span>

My sole contention is that a victims’ use of deadly force against domestic violence is an exercise of their right to self defense because the victims have no other option to stop the domestic violence.
Sub-Point A: The criminal justice system fails victims because police are not aware of whom the perpetrator is and repeated calls for help will cause police to ignore victims. Burke writes[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]:
**__"Even if someone bothers ...__** **__has no safe options."__**

Sub-Point B: Victims can't flee. It is statistically proven that victims who flee from their abuser have a much higher chance of death. Buel states[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]:
**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"3. Believes Threats: __...__ </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">t extensive safety planning.9"</span>

Sub-Point C: There are psychological factors that prevent victims from seeking help. Domestic violence causes mental anguish which makes the victim believe they can’t do anything. This prevents them from leaving their partner. The Supreme Court of Kansas in State vs. Hundley explains[[home#_ftn8|[8]]]:
"*467 Wife beating is steeped __**...** **persons from the torture."**__

Victims have an easy time believing the abuser’s promises that they will change since it is someone they are close to. Because of this victims aren’t prepared for the abuse until right when it happens. Buel continues[[home#_ftn9|[9]]]:
**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"39. Promises of Change: __...__ </span>****__portrayed as an inconsequential incident."__**

Sub-Point D: Various financial issues prevent the victim from leaving the abuser because the abuser controls finances. Martinez concurs[[home#_ftn10|[10]]]:
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"Financial Barriers</span>//**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">-</span>**__Another brick ...__** **__exposure to drugs, gangs, etc."__**</span>

Sub-Point D: There are several cultural and racial factors that prevent victims from seeking help. Buel conludes[[home#_ftn11|[11]]]:
**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"6. Cultural and Racial Defenses:</span>**
**__Cultural defenses may ...__** **__use and success rates.__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">13"</span>

Thus I affirm.
----
[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The Legal-Dictionary hosted by the Free Dictionary.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.33px;"> Deadly Force. The Free Dictionary by Farlex. http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Deadly+Force)</span>
[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> [//Webster’s New World Dictionary//. 1988. New York: Simon & Schuster, Inc.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.06px;">4</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[Meyersfeld, Bonita. 2003. “Reconceptualizing Domestic Violence in International Law.” //Albany Law Review//. 67:371.]</span>
[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]
[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Robert F. Schopp, Professor-University of Nebraska College of Law, 1998, Justification Defenses and Just Convictions, p. 87-8</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (Shlomit Wallerstein[ Lecturer, St. Peter’s College, Oxford University. M.Stud., Oxford University, L.L.B., Hebrew University]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JUSTIFYING THE RIGHT TO SELF-DEFENSE: A THEORY OF FORCED CONSEQUENCES. Virginia Law Review [Vol. 91:999 2005] Justifying the Right to Self-Defense. Pp. 1027-1028. 5/18/05. http://www.virginialawreview.org/content/pdfs/91/999.pdf)</span>
[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (Alafair S. Burke [Associate Professor, Hofstra University School of Law. B.A., Reed College; J.D, Stanford Law School]. Rational Actors, Self-Defense, and Duress: Making Sense, Not Syndromes, Out of the Battered Woman. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.33px;">North Carolina Law Review, Vol. 81, No. 1, December 2002. http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=307809)</span>
[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (Sarah M. Buel [Clinical Professor, University of Texas School of Law (UTSL). She was founder and co-director, UTSL</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Domestic Violence Clinic; co-founder and consultant, National Training Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence; and a former domestic violence, child abuse, and juvenile prosecutor and advocate. She graduated cum laude from Harvard Extension School and Harvard LawSchool]. Fifty Obstacles to Leaving, //a.k.a.//,Why Abuse Victims Stay. THE COLORADO LAWYER / OCTOBER 1999 / VOL. 28, NO. 10 / 19. P. 19. 10/99. http://www.vcpionline.org/pdfs/50%20Reasons%20Why%20Victims%20Stay.pdf)</span>
[[home#_ftnref8|[8]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (Supreme Court of Kansas. STATE OF KANSAS, Appellee, v. BETTY HUNDLEY, Appellant. 236 Kan. 461 (1985)693 P.2d 475. 1/11/85. Google Scholar. http://scholar.google.com/scholar_case?q=wife+beating+is+steeped&hl=en&as_sdt=2,39&as_vis=1&case=7172490382886741520&scilh=0)</span>
[[home#_ftnref9|[9]]] <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Sarah M. Buel [Clinical Professor, University of Texas School of Law (UTSL). She was founder and co-director, UTSL</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Domestic Violence Clinic; co-founder and consultant, National Training Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence; and a former domestic violence, child abuse, and juvenile prosecutor and advocate. She graduated cum laude from Harvard Extension School and Harvard LawSchool]. Fifty Obstacles to Leaving, //a.k.a.//,Why Abuse Victims Stay. THE COLORADO LAWYER / OCTOBER 1999 / VOL. 28, NO. 10 / 19. P. 24. 10/99. http://www.vcpionline.org/pdfs/50%20Reasons%20Why%20Victims%20Stay.pdf)</span>
[[home#_ftnref10|[10]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (Jeri Martinez [</span><span class="st" style="font-size: 13.33px;">Domestic Violence Victim Advocate at Washington County State's Attorney.</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">].HOSTAGES IN THE HOME: Domestic Violence Seen Through Its Parallel, The Stockholm Syndrome. 8/01. Pp. 5-6. www.mincava.umn.edu/documents/clergybook.../clergyappendix2.d...)</span>
[[home#_ftnref11|[11]]] <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Sarah M. Buel [Clinical Professor, University of Texas School of Law (UTSL). She was founder and co-director, UTSL</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Domestic Violence Clinic; co-founder and consultant, National Training Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence; and a former domestic violence, child abuse, and juvenile prosecutor and advocate. She graduated cum laude from Harvard Extension School and Harvard LawSchool]. Fifty Obstacles to Leaving, //a.k.a.//,Why Abuse Victims Stay. THE COLORADO LAWYER / OCTOBER 1999 / VOL. 28, NO. 10 / 19. P. 20. 10/99. http://www.vcpionline.org/pdfs/50%20Reasons%20Why%20Victims%20Stay.pdf)</span>
==1AC-Immigrants Plan (Lexington Rd 4 vs. Stuyvesant GW)== 
I affirm.
Observation one: interpretation.

<span style="color: #000000;">Don’t vote off of aff violations of fairness as long as the neg has stock ground-empirical neg bias</span>
The aff winning any offense to a neg theory interp is sufficient to affirm-time and strat skew

Deadly force is defined by the Legal-Dictionary hosted by the Free Dictionary as[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]:
**//__An amount of force that is likely to cause either serious bodily injury or death to another person.__//**
<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Meyersfield defines domestic violence as<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>:</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">“Generally</span>**__domestic violence ...__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> violence escalates.” </span>

Observation two: framework. The value is morality because the resolution questions the moral permissibility of an action. The standard is respecting the right to self-defense. The right to self defense is necessary to uphold the equality of all human beings and recognizes all people as morally autonomous beings, recognizing human worth. Schopp explains[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]:
**__"The moral justification ...__** <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">an innocent party."</span>

All moral codes, even deontology, would grant the right to self defense because otherwise the right to life has no meaning. Wallerstein 05[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]:
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000;">**__"Starting from the premise__** ... **__defending one’s autonomy."__**</span></span>

Observation three: harms. Immigration uniquely causes domestic violence because women are forced to take up jobs which upsets the man who already is suffering from much stress. Empirics prove that domestic violence increases once couples immigrate. Shaw 09[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]:
**__"Studies show that ...__** **__at low-paying jobs.__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">20"</span>
Language and cultural issues prevent immigrant victims from seeking help from the police or others. Wood 04[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"The most obvious ... </span>**__remain with their batterers.__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">78"</span>

Immigration laws force immigrant couples to remain together so they can gain citizenship, allowing one spouse to control the other. Wood 2[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"Among other provisions, **__...__** the 1986 amendments."</span>

Thus the plan: It is morally permissible for victims that are US immigrants to use deadly force as a deliberate response to repeated domestic violence.
Solvency:
Deadly force is the only plausible way for the victim to stop domestic violence for four reasons. Ayyildiz writes[[home#_ftn10|[10]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"To some, the death ... </span>**__by the abuser."__**
----
[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The Legal-Dictionary hosted by the Free Dictionary.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.33px;"> Deadly Force. The Free Dictionary by Farlex. http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Deadly+Force)</span>
[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]
[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Robert F. Schopp, Professor-University of Nebraska College of Law, 1998, Justification Defenses and Just Convictions, p. 87-8</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (Shlomit Wallerstein[ Lecturer, St. Peter’s College, Oxford University. M.Stud., Oxford University, L.L.B., Hebrew University]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JUSTIFYING THE RIGHT TO SELF-DEFENSE: A THEORY OF FORCED CONSEQUENCES. Virginia Law Review [Vol. 91:999 2005] Justifying the Right to Self-Defense. Pp. 1027-1028. 5/18/05. http://www.virginialawreview.org/content/pdfs/91/999.pdf)</span>
[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (KATERINA SHAW [J.D. Candidate, Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, 2009]. BARRIERS TO FREEDOM: CONTINUED FAILURE OF U.S. IMMIGRATION LAWS TO OFFER EQUAL PROTECTION TO IMMIGRANT BATTERED WOMEN. CARDOZO JOURNAL OF LAW & GENDER [Vol. 15:663 2009] BARRIERS TO FREEDOM. Pp. 665-666. 2009. http://www.cardozolawandgender.com/uploads/2/7/7/6/2776881/15-3_shaw.pdf)</span>
[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (SARAH M.WOOD [J.D., Duke University School of Law; Ph.D., Yale University; A.B., Harvard College]. VAWA’S UNFINISHED BUSINESS: THE IMMIGRANT WOMEN WHO FALL THROUGH THE CRACKS. DUKE JOURNAL OF GENDER LAW & POLICY Volume 11:141 2004 VAWA’S UNFINISHED BUSINESS. Pp. 150-152. 2004. www.law.duke.edu/journals/cite.php?11+Duke+J...L...)</span>
[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(SARAH M.WOOD [J.D., Duke University School of Law; Ph.D., Yale University; A.B., Harvard College].VAWA’S UNFINISHED BUSINESS: THE IMMIGRANT WOMEN WHO FALL THROUGH THE CRACKS. DUKE JOURNAL OF GENDER LAW & POLICY Volume 11:141 2004 VAWA’S UNFINISHED BUSINESS. P. 144. 2004. www.law.duke.edu/journals/cite.php?11+Duke+J...L...)</span>
[[home#_ftnref8|[8]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(SARAH M.WOOD [J.D., Duke University School of Law; Ph.D., Yale University; A.B., Harvard College].VAWA’S UNFINISHED BUSINESS: THE IMMIGRANT WOMEN WHO FALL THROUGH THE CRACKS. DUKE JOURNAL OF GENDER LAW & POLICY Volume 11:141 2004 VAWA’S UNFINISHED BUSINESS. P. 145. 2004. [[http://www.law.duke.edu/journals/cite.php?11+Duke+J...L|www.law.duke.edu/journals/cite.php?11+Duke+J...L]]...)</span>
[[home#_ftnref9|[9]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(SARAH M.WOOD [J.D., Duke University School of Law; Ph.D., Yale University; A.B., Harvard College].VAWA’S UNFINISHED BUSINESS: THE IMMIGRANT WOMEN WHO FALL THROUGH THE CRACKS. DUKE JOURNAL OF GENDER LAW & POLICY Volume 11:141 2004 VAWA’S UNFINISHED BUSINESS. P. 152. 2004. www.law.duke.edu/journals/cite.php?11+Duke+J...L...)</span>
[[home#_ftnref10|[10]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (ELISABETH Ayyildiz [J.D., Chicago-Kent College of Law, 1995; B., University of Virginia, 1991]. WHEN BATTERED WOMAN'S SYNDROME DOES NOT GO FAR ENOUGH: THE BATTERED WOMAN AS VIGILANTE. JOURNAL OF GENDER & THE LAW [Vol. 4:141 Fall 1995] THE BATTERED WOMAN AS VIGILANTE. Pp. 149-150. 1995. http://digitalcommons.wcl.american.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1170&context=jgspl&sei-redir=1&referer=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2Furl%3Fsa%3Dt%26rct%3Dj%26q%3Dwhen%2520battered%2520women%25E2%2580%2599s%2520syndrome%2520does%2520not%2520go%2520far%2520enough%253A%2520the%2520battered%2520woman%2520as%2520vigilante.%25E2%2580%259D%2520%26source%3Dweb%26cd%3D1%26ved%3D0CCAQFjAA%26url%3Dhttp%253A%252F%252Fdigitalcommons.wcl.american.edu%252Fcgi%252Fviewcontent.cgi%253Farticle%253D1170%2526context%253Djgspl%26ei%3Dn-MMT8jlCOTg0QHC9O34BQ%26usg%3DAFQjCNHfgCHWW-E06I4whqh85TaR-Db5DQ#search=%22when%20battered%20women%E2%80%99s%20syndrome%20does%20not%20go%20far%20enough%3A%20battered%20woman%20as%20vigilante.%E2%80%9D%22)</span>
[[home#_ftnref11|[11]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> (CECILIA MENJÍVAR, OLIVIA SALCIDO [Arizona State University]. Immigrant Women and Domestic Violence: Common Experiences in Different Countries. Gender &amp; Society 2002; 16; 898 DOI: 10.1177/089124302237894. Pp. 900-901. 2002. [[http://www.stolaf.edu/events/globalization/Immigrant_Women_and_Domestic_Violence.pdf]])</span>
==Negative== 
==1NC-Pacifism (Pitt-all prelims and Lexington Rd 2 vs. Brewster)== 
I negate: It is morally permissible for victims to use deadly force as a deliberate response to repeated domestic violence.
<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Meyersfeld defines domestic violence as<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>:</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">“Generally</span>**__domestic violence ...__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> of violence escalates."</span>

The value is morality because the resolution questions the moral permissibility of an action. The value criterion is rejecting violence. 1. Any system of morality would require the rejection of violence because violence destroys human worth. It says a human failed and now has to resort to violence, denying the worth of others. Allen 06[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]:
"<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Second, even in those ... work toward reconciliation."</span>
2. Morality requires the rejection of violence because the purpose of every moral code is to respect human worth. However, if morality were to judge that something that disrespects human worth, in this case violence, is moral, then morality would become nonsensical and lose its purpose. 3. All moral codes admit that there is not always a moral action to take in a situation. Thus we must always reject violent acts, even violent acts that are meant to stop or prevent another violent act.

Contention one: A victim’s use of deadly force as a deliberate response against repeated domestic violence is a violent act. Deadly force is defined by the Legal-Dictionary hosted by the Free Dictionary as[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]:
**//__"An amount of force ... to another person."__//**
Deliberate is defined by Webster’s New World Dictionary as<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span>:
**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"Deliberate</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">: “1) </span>**__carefully thought out ...__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> unhurried and methodical” </span>

This means that the use of deadly force is even more violent because it is planned out ahead of time. Since deadly force is a violent act, it must be rejected in all circumstances, including for victims of domestic violence.

Contention two: Victims of domestic violence have other, non-violent, alternatives available to them to protect themselves from domestic violence. The criminal justice system provides many solutions. Hagan 01[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]:
**__"The states' legislative ...__** <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">and court personnel."</span>
EXISTENCE OF INSTITUTIONAL LEGAL ALTERNATIVES NEGATES JUSTIFICATION FOR DEADLY FORCE. Schopp states[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]:
**__"Available legal alternatives__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> ... not available or not effective."</span>
US focus good:
1. We live in the US-most educational.
2. Topic Lit
3. US criminal justice system us modeled by other countries.

Thus I negate.
----

[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Meyersfeld, Bonita. 2003. “Reconceptualizing Domestic Violence in International Law.” //Albany Law Review//. 67:371.]</span>
[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Douglas Allen [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Maine]. Mahatma Gandhi after 9/11: Terrorism and Violence. Comparative Philosophy and Religion in Times of Terror. Edited by Douglas Allen. P. 34. 2006. http://books.google.com/books?id=p8MtUS5O340C&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0#v=snippet&q=%22and%20work%20toward%20reconciliation.%22&f=false)</span>
[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The Legal-Dictionary hosted by the Free Dictionary.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.33px;"> Deadly Force. The Free Dictionary by Farlex. http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Deadly+Force)</span>
[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> [//Webster’s New World Dictionary//. 1988. New York: Simon & Schuster, Inc.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.06px;">3</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[Meyersfeld, Bonita. 2003. “Reconceptualizing Domestic Violence in International Law.” //Albany Law Review//. 67:371.]</span>
[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> DePaul Law Review, 2001, [Jennifer R. Hagan, JD Candidate], Spring, 50 DePaul L. Rev. 919, p. 971-3</span>
[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> Robert F. Schopp, Professor-University of Nebraska College of Law, 1998, Justification Defenses and Just Convictions, p. 109</span>

==1NC-Bucket of Awesomeness 1.0 (Lexington Rd 3 vs. Stuyvesant EH and Rd 5 vs. Ridge, Emory-all prelims)== 
I negate. Part one is the counter-plan:
Text: It is morally permissible for victims to use deadly force as a deliberate response to repeated private torture.
Competition: The counter-plan is mutually exclusive. It is textually competitive because the aff defends the use of deadly force against domestic violence instead of private torture. It is functionally competitive because domestic violence encompasses multiple forms of abuse while private torture only involves specific kinds of abuse. There are two forms of domestic violence-category one and category two. Private torture is only category two. Meyersfeld 03<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"Domestic violence' is ... </span> **__combat its occurrence."__**
Solvency:
The counter-plan solves all of the aff’s impacts because it allows for the use of deadly force against the most serious abuse. The aff only derives impacts from the most serious abuse and doesn’t derive impacts from the less serious abuse that the counter-plan doesn’t cover. Self-defense is only necessary against the serious abuse so the neg completely solves the aff.
Part two is the net benefit:
Effective resistance to abuse.
Referring to category two domestic violence as private torture is key to the criminalization of private torture. Otherwise domestic violence cannot effectively be prohibited. Meyersfeld 2<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>:
**__"Domestic violence,' as ...__** <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">this form of harm." </span>
Using the blanket term domestic violence which encompasses all forms of abuse makes it difficult to separate the most serious abuse from other abuse. This makes it impossible to take action against the most serious abuse. Dore writes[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]:
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">"Although this revised ... </span>**__within relationships generally."__**

The only way to effectively fight domestic violence is through labeling it as private torture. The patriarchal underpinnings of society as well as an emphasis on privacy prevent domestic violence from resonating with society. Putting it in terms of private torture makes people understand the horrors of domestic violence and puts it on a level that they can understand. Meyersfeld 3[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]:
**__"Historically, "domestic violence' was ...__** **__private torture of women."__**

Part Three: Theory.
A. Interpretation: The neg may run a PIC.
B. I meet-this theory is pre-empts to any theory they run and is purely defensive.
C. Standards:
1. Ground.
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2</span>. Unpredictability.
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">3. Critical Thinking</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">4. Reality</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">D. Voter: Education. </span>

Finally, textual competition is good:
1. Most objective
2. Promotes good judging
3. Contextual competition is arbitrary
4. Checks aff abuse
5. Only way to truly test competition
Thus I negate.
----
[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> [Meyersfeld, Bonita. 2003. “Reconceptualizing Domestic Violence in International Law.” //Albany Law Review//. 67:371.]</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> [Meyersfeld, Bonita. 2003. “Reconceptualizing Domestic Violence in International Law.” //Albany Law Review//. 67:371.]</span>
[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> [Dore, Laurie Kratky. 1995. “Downward Adjustment and the Slippery Slope: The Use of Duress in Defense of Battered Offenders.” //Ohio State Law Journal//. 56:665.]</span>
[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]<span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> [Meyersfeld, Bonita. 2003. “Reconceptualizing Domestic Violence in International Law.” //Albany Law Review//. 67:371.]</span>

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]