[[toc]]
[[2011-2012 - Edina (MN) - Mimi Sergent-Leventhal & Erin Sielaff|Return to main page]]

Case specific CPs can be found on the Case Neg page

=Aerospace Tax Credit CP= 
==1NC - Greenhill RR== 
The United States federal government should create a permanent tax credit for the aerospace industry for research and development related to airframe and engage technologies.

The CP solves the largest internal link to aerospace competitiveness—empirically tax incentives produce cutting-edge technologies
FAAC 10
(Department of Transportation’s recommendations via the Future of Aviation Advisory Committee to Congress, The Aviation Advisory Committee provides information, advice, and recommendations to the Secretary of Transportation on ensuring the competitiveness of the U.S. aviation industry and its capability to address the evolving transportation needs, challenges, and opportunities of the global economy. 2010; http://www.dot.gov/faac/FAAC_Recommendations.pdf; JN)

RECOMMENDATION # 2 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT [...] ‘s leadership in clean technologies.


A permanent tax credit solves- incentivizes innovation and investment –increases jobs and GDP
AIA 10- Aerospace Industries Association
(“Research and Development Tax Credit,” http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/RandDpaper.pdf, May)

In short, a preponderance of [...] jobs in the short-run.

=Author PIC= 
==1NC - Greenhill== 
Text: We advocate the entirety of the 1AC except for their use of author cites.

By constructing their affirmative as a monument and locus for change they undermine the potential for deviations and considerations of the possibilities surrounding the texts of their authors – by affirming the text that we have heard of as a plagiarized or as an entirely new text you open up the possibility for real change and a modification of society.
Mimi and Erin in right now (the text of the card can be found here: http://www.crimethinc.com/texts/harbinger/practical.php)

We have all been taught from [...] material as the property of humanity.


=BMD CP= 
==1NC - Greenhill== 
The United States federal government should end joint cooperation over missile defense with Japan

BMD is the main motivation for Chinese space weaponization—getting rid of BMD would reassure them regarding our offensive capabilities.
Zhang, 11 – Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University (March/April, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship,” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2, JSTOR)

In October 2008, the U [...] are mounting a simultaneous attack.”30

=Carbon Sequestration CP= 
==1NC - Iowa Caucus== 
Counterplan Text – The US federal government should fully fund and develop carbon sequestration technology.

CCS solves warming—it’s viable, environmentally friendly, large scale, and we have the tech
Yu 11—forestry student at the University of British Columbia
(2011, Joe Yu, “Carbon capture and storage”, https://circle.ubc.ca/handle/2429/36226)

In 1992, the concern of [...] , Frequently Asked Questions, 2005).

=Code of Conduct CP= 
==1NC - Greenhill== 
The United States federal government should offer a Code of Conduct to all space-faring nations that prohibits harmful interference against man-made space objects and reduces practices that contribute to the weaponization of space, and create enforcement mechanisms and transparency and verification measures for every country that agrees to the Code of Conduct

Code of conduct is a comparatively better way to preserve US advantages in space and overall space security
Krepon & Black, 9 – Co-founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center, director of the Space Security Project AND research associate at the Stimson Center (May, Michael and Samuel, “Space Security or Anti-satellite Weapons?” Stimson, pdf)

An alternative approach to space security [...] engage in harmful interference against satellites.


Code of conduct solves space weaponization and future Chinese attacks -- other countries want multilateral agreements
Krepon 7 - Co-founder and contributor to the Stimson Center (3/5, Michael, “Will the Bush Administration Endorse a Space Code of Conduct?”, Space News, http:www.stimson.org/pub.cfm?id=402, accessed June 21, 2011)

Support is growing for a specific [...] conduct. Of course, no responsible

=Consult Russia CP= 
==1NC - Greenhill== 
Text: The United States federal government should submit to the US-Russia Bipartisan Presidential Commission for prior, genuine, and binding consultation that the United States federal government should develop its space situational awareness by deploying the space based surveillance system.

Competes –
1. “Resolved” means “to make a firm decision about,” American Heritage Dictionary, 03
2. “Should” means “used to express obligation,” Dictionary.com, 03

Opportunity cost –

BPC key to relations – disagreements put us on the brink
Rojansky, 7/13 [7/13/11, Matthew Rojansky, the deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment “Lavrov's Visit and a New Foundation for U.S.-Russia Cooperation”, http://carnegie.ru/publications/?lang=en&fa=45036, SM]

Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov is [...] when two great nations work together.


Relations check loose nukes, accidents, nuclear war, miscalc
Cohen, ‘1 (Stephen, Prof of Russian Studies at NYU, June 7, http://www.thenation.com/doc.mhtml?i=20010625&c=1&s=cohen)

In these and other ways, [...] ? If not us, who?"

=DoD Alternative Energy CP= 
==1NC - Iowa Caucus== 
Counterplan Text – The US federal government should have the Department of Defense deploy alternative energy systems, excluding those involving space-based solar power, for usage in the US Armed Forces

Solar technology solves readiness and power projection
Nanosolar, 7 – solar company [9/5, “Cell Production Leads the Way Toward Longer-Lasting Portable Power”, from Distribution Statement A 2007, http://www.darpa.mil/sbir/pdf_files/Nanosolar_09_05_07.pdf]

Maintaining enough power to keep communications [...] make the cells absorb solar energy.

=DoD Budget CP= 
==1NC - Iowa Caucus== 
Counterplan Text – The US federal government should fully fund the Army’s Fiscal Year 2012 budget request

That solves readiness
Chiarelli, 5/4 – general in the US Armed Forces [Peter, “Statement Before the Subcommittee on Airland Committee on Armed Services United States Senate”, First Session, 112th Congress, http://armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2011/04%20April/Chiarelli%2004-05-11.pdf, AL]

In support of Army Acquisition and [...] in this era of persistent conflict.

=European Space Agency CP= 
==1NC - Greenhill== 
Plan: The European Space Agency should substantially increase its space-based climate monitoring capabilities.

ESA can do earth observation – Programmes prove
Space Mart 8 (Space Mart, 7/16/8, “ESA Launches Program In Support Of Earth Observation Science” http://www.spacemart.com/reports/ESA_Launches_Program_In_Support_Of_Earth_Observation_Science_999.html MGE)

Since the advent of Earth observation [...] Support to Science Element (STSE).

=Fuel Cell UAV CP= 
==1NC - Iowa Caucus== 
Counterplan Text – The US federal government should have the Department of Defense invest in and deploy fuel-cell powered unmanned aerial vehicles

Fuel-cell UAVs solve readiness, endurance, and stealth – and the tech exists now
Flinn, 6 – aerospace journalist [Edward, November, “Hydrogen fuel cells power UAV”, Aerospace America Engineering Notebook, http://www.aiaa.org/aerospace/images/articleimages/pdf/AA_Nov06_EN.pdf, AL]

Parekh wanted to develop a vehicle [...] conventionally powered craft, he says.

=Paper PIC= 
==1NC - Greenhill== 
Counter-advocacy – we advocate the entirety of the affirmative except for their use of paper.

They spoke persuasively about human genocide but they ignore genocide on other levels – specifically, that of trees. The idea that their use of paper is nothing important masks over the ongoing genocide against nature – their upholding of the papered system of debate legitimizes and masks over deforestation – we must reject them in favor of a transition to electronics.
Eckard 8/5 (Robert, more than a decade of experience in the energy and environmental industries, research analyst for BCC, http://ezinearticles.com/?Deforestation---Take-Necessary-Steps-to-Overcome-the-Problem!&id=4803837, dml)

Deforestation is not all that serious [...] would place somewhere and lose anyway.


To use a tired phrase we are not beautiful, unique snowflakes – non-human life is no less special than intelligent life. Portraying it as such reinforces organic chauvinism.
De Landa 97 (Manuel, Gilles Deleuze Chair of Contemporary Philosophy and Science at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, “A Thousand Years of Non-Linear History” pg 103-104, dml)

In the eyes of many human [...] a new batch of raw materials.


And, this organic chauvinism turns the aff – they perpetuate an ongoing genocide against all forms of non-human life. Use our counter-advocacy as a way of affirming nature as a body without organs – a structure that creates life and deconstructs the binaries that necessarily create their impacts.
De Landa and Becker 96 (Manuel and Konrad, Gilles Deleuze Chair of Contemporary Philosophy and Science at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland and Director of the Institute for New Culture Technologies, “An Interview with Manuel de Landa, accessed at http://www.t0.or.at/delanda/intdelanda.htm, dml)

Philosophically, it is a terrible [...] this breathing rhythm all to itself.

=Privatization CP=
==1NC - Iowa Caucus== 
The United States federal government should grant a 25 year tax exemption to the first company who deploys the Transformational Satellite Communications System, for the use of the United States federal government’s military.

Tax incentives solve
Hudgins, 2004 [Edward, The Atlas Society, “Return to the Moon? Not With This NASA,” 1-24, http://www.atlassociety.org/return-moon-not-nasa]

January 24, 2004 -- One [...] a truly space-faring civilization.

=Russia Reverse Negative Conditions CP= 
==1NC - Iowa Caucus== 
The government of Russia will offer to unilaterally remove all of its nuclear weapons from high alert status and end its launch on warning policy if the United States federal government agrees to not (_plan_). The government of Russia will abide by the outcome of this negotiation.

It’s competitive – any permutation either severs plan action or doesn’t solve the net benefit since it would mean the US says no.

And de-alerting Russian weapons is key to prevent accidental nuclear war
Steven Starr, independent writer who has been published by the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists and the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology Center for Arms Control, April 08, “Catastrophic Climatic Consequences of Nuclear Conflict”, International Network of Engineers and Scientists Against Proliferation, http://inesap.org/bulletins, umn-rks

The failure of the U. [...] launch-on-warning.45



=Satellite Hardening CP= 
==1NC - Greenhill== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its defensive counterspace capabilities, including satellite redundancy and reconstitution, micro-satellite development and deployment, and satellite hardening and mobility.

Hardening protects our assets better
Haddick 11 Robert, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, “Lost In Space” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/11/this_week_at_war_lost_in_space?page=0,1

The U.S. Department [...] time for the Pentagon's budget masters.

=Super Chimneys CP= 
==1NC - Iowa Caucus== 
Text: The government of the European Union should provide all necessary support for the construction of ten super chimneys.

Ten super chimneys are more then enough to solve all warming – They facilitate heat exchange and cause cloud formation
Pesochinsky 8 (Michael, engineer. “How the super-chimney will cool the atmosphere” http://www.superchimney.org/atmosphere.html)

The super-chimney will cool [...] offset the effects of Global Warming.



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]