[[toc]]
Aff Cites: [[mailto:samseitz3@gmail.com|samseitz3@gmail.com]]
Neg Cites: [[mailto:sauljhonathanforman@gmail.com|sauljhonathanforman@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==Plan== 
The United States federal government should substantially develop and deploy space-based solar power beyond the Earth's mesosphere.
==Aerospace Adv.== 
**Global development of SPS is inevitable – US inaction collapses aerospace competitiveness**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Matai 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD in Engineering, won The Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the category of Innovation for Bespoke Security Architecture in 2003, authority on countering complex global threats; strategic risk management & visualisation; contingency planning; Information Operations (IO); electronic defence; biometric authentication; secure payment systems and Open Source hardened kernel solutions</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">DK, 6-13-2010, “Japan Takes Lead in Wireless Power? 21stC Global Energy Supply,” Asymmetric Threats Contingency Alliance, http://www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/frameset.php?pageid=http%3A//www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/press/130610.php//</span>
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the footsteps... century and beyond!</span>//

//**Only a federal investment into SSP invigorates US aerospace leadership**//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NSSO 7</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">FINDING: The SBSP... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">of this imperative.</span>//

//**Economic benefits happen before any component is ever in space**//
//**SEC 8**//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space Enterprise Council, 2008, NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/2008-SECSpaceBasedSolarPowerWhitePaper.pdf</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">SBSP is a... solar power generation.</span>//

//**The commitment to SSP alone is enough to bolster aerospace – it doesn’t depend upon completion**//
//**Nansen, 95** - led the Boeing team of engineers in the Satellite Power System Concept Development and Evaluation Program for the Department of Energy and NASA, and President Solar Space Industries (Ralph, Sun Power, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/sunpower/sunpower09.html)//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Case for... to our economy.</span>//

//**A collapsing aerospace sector takes down key sectors of US hegemony**//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Walker et al 2 – Chairman of the USAI</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert Walker, et cal, Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, 2002, “Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners,” http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Defending our nation against its enemies is the first and fundamental commitment of the federal govern-ment...</span>//
//<span class="Underline">It is one... preeminent military power. </span>//

//<span class="Underline">**Heg is sustainable**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Wolf 4/13/2011**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD from Harvard, senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution, member of the advisory board of the Center for International Business and Economic Research at UCLA's Anderson Graduate School of Business (Charles, WSJ, “The Facts About American 'Decline'”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704415104576251292725228886.html, SS)</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">It's fashionable among... </span>////<span class="Underline">in absolute terms.</span>//

//**Heg beats the alternatives—any other system risks great power war and collapse**//
//**Thayer 2006** [Bradley A., Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, Duluth, The National Interest, November -December, “In Defense of Primacy”, lexis]//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A remarkable fact... the world's ills.</span>//

//**Economic Leadership – Aerospace competitiveness drives economic growth – purely private sector approaches guarantee failure**//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hernnstadt 8 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of Trade and Globalization @ IAMAW</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Owen, director of the Trade and Globalization Department, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, “Offsets and the lack of a comprehensive U.S. policy,” Economic Policy Institute, http://www.sharedprosperity.org/bp201.html)</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Aerospace is an... well-developed industrial policies</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//

//**Economic decline results in global war**//
//**Royal 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the DoD, 10 — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” </span>//Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Less intuitive is... to those views.</span>

**Economy turns their impact—delayed recovery or collapse makes every impact worse**
**Blair 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Director of National Intelligence (2/12, Dennis, CQ Congressional Testimony)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The primary near-term... international financial structure.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Air Force Adv.</span>== 

**Air Force needs energy now and SPS uniquely key to solve**
**Arkin 12 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Editor, NBC Universal (Daniel, 2/22/12, “Air Force Plans Nuke-Powered Spacecraft, Space-Based Power Stations”, [[http://www.nbclosangeles.com/news/tech/NATL-Report-US-Air-Force-Plans-Energy-Revolution-139967283.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The United States... to mission success."</span>

**Energy is key to deterrence and SPS solves**
**David 12** – Reporter on the space industry for more than five decades, winner of last year's National Space Club Press Award and a past editor-in-chief of the National Space Society's Ad Astra and Space World magazines, and writer for SPACE.com since 1999 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Leonard, 2/23/12, “Air Force space plan calls for nuclear reactors”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/46500071/ns/technology_and_science-space/#.T0bTavGPmAh|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/46500071/ns/technology_and_science-space/#.T0bTavGPmAh]]</span>, SJF)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. Air... from space-based systems."</span>

**SPS uniquely key to effective Air Force operations in space**
**Donley and Schwartz 12** – Secretary of the Air Force, Chief of Staff and General of the Air Force <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Nortan, 1/31/12, “Energy Horizons United States Air Force Energy S&T Vision 2011-2026”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-120209-060.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Recently, there has... based assets increases.</span>

**Only air power can mitigate global conflicts and deter major war.**
**Dunlap 2006** – Maj. General, deputy judge advocate of the Air Force, National War College graduate with over 30 years of Armed Forces Experience (Charles Jr., Armed Forces Journal, “America’s Asymmetric Advantage”, http://www.armedforcesjournal.com/2006/09/2009013)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">So where does... is at risk.</span>

<span class="Underline">**South China Sea conflict is highly likely and causes India- China naval tensions- those escalate to nuclear conflict despite economic ties**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Time** 9/19/**11** (blog) (Time Magazine with CNN, Ishaan Tharoor, “ Is This How Wars Start? India and China Now Feud Over the South China Sea”, http://globalspin.blogs.time.com/2011/09/19/is-this-how-wars-start-india-and-china-now-feud-over-the-south-china-sea/#disqus_thread//greenhill-sb)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Last week, one... fallout potentially incalculable.</span>

**So is war btwn India and Pakistan due to deep rooted tensions and lack of trust**
**The Pioneer 2-17-12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The pioneer is an Indian newspaper, “Very difficult to achieve peace between India and Pak”, [[http://dailypioneer.com/home/online-channel/top-story/43354-very-difficult-to-achieve-peace-between-india-and-pak-clapper.html)SS]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">"There have been... time," he said.</span>

**And, an Effective Air Force Prevents Conflicts Over India-Pakistan, South China Sea and Deters CBW Attacks**
**Tellis et al ‘98**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ashley, Ashley J., Senior Political Scientist at RAND specializing in South Asian Security, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, pg online @ http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf ghs-ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">This subsection attempts... the Persian Gulf.</span>

**Crises likely and escalate rapidly – nothing checks**
**Scobell 9** (Dr. Andrew, Professor of International Affairs and Director of the China Certificate Program – Texas A&M University, “Is There a Civil-Military Gap in China’s Peaceful Rise?”, Parameters, Summer, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/09summer/scobell.pdf)
The actions suggest... in early 2008.

<span class="Underline">**Nuclear War**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kahn 9**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeremy, Newsweek, “Why India Fears China”, 10-19, 154:16, L/N)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On June 21... the two sides.</span>

**India – Pakistan war causes massive death, collapse of civilization, and a nuclear winter triggering extinction**
**G**lobal **S**ecurity **N**ewswire 3-16-**10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(GSN is a DAILY NEWS ON NUCLEAR, BIOLOGICAL & CHEMICAL WEAPONS, TERRORISM AND RELATED ISSUES “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate World Population, Report Warns” http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/regional-nuclear-war-could-devastate-world-population-report-warns/)SS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Computer modeling suggests... goal of elimination.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space-Based Missile Defense Adv.</span>== 

**Space weaponization is inevitable: Iran, Turkey, Indonesia, Russia, and China**
**Redifer 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- LtCol, USMC, paper submitted in fulfillment of a degree from the Air War College at Air University (Stephen, “TAKING THE INITIATIVE – PROTECTING US INTERESTS IN SPACE ,” 2/16,</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=downloadpaper&objectid=be97b3ea-7800-44ee-b6ff-76dcdb7c2960&rs=PublishedSearch</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The execution of... equities in space.</span>

<span class="Underline">**NSP doesn’t ban Space BMD – Obama still pursuing it**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gilbert 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Griffith Asia Institute, writer for sustainablesecurity.org, (Jo-anne Gilbert, September 2010, “A SPOON FULL OF SUGAR MAKES THE MEDICINE GO DOWN? AN ANALYSIS OF THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION’S ‘NEW’ NATIONAL SPACE POLICY”, [[http://sustainablesecurity.org/article/spoon-full-sugar-makes-medicine-go-down-analysis-obama-administration%E2%80%99s-%E2%80%98new%E2%80%99-national-space]], DRH)</span>
The language of... become a solution

**That weaponization effort will fail and SPS makes it effective – it hardens satellites, enhances mobility, allows rapid repairs, cheaper launches, and is critical to space based missile defense**
**Ramos 2K**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to... the RF beam</span>


**Only SMD provide a total coverage of the Earth**
**The I**nstitute for **F**oreign **P**olicy **A**nalysis, Inc. **9**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[An independent, nonpartisan research organization specializing in national security, foreign policy, and defense planning issues. “Missile Defense, The Space Relationship, & the Twenty-First Century”. [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]].111]</span>
Another issue is... space-based missile defenses.

**Other countries will recognize U.S. space control is in their interest – as it upholds the global economic order and they directly benefit**
**Dolman, 5—**Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies
(Everett C., “U.S. Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” 9-14-05, http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf)
The rationality does... to step aside.

**Monetary and performance deficiencies deter countermeasures – ensures SBMD effectiveness**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Frederick 9</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Lorinda A. Frederick, Lt. Colonel in the USAF, BA, Michigan State University; MBA, Regis University; Master of Military Operational Art and Science, Air Command and Staff College; Master of Airpower Art and Science, School of Advanced Air and Space Studies) is assigned to the Air Force Concepts, Strategy, and Wargaming Division, Headquarters US Air Force. She has served as a flight commander and instructor in intercontinental ballistic missile and missile warning squadrons., //Air & Space Power Journal//, Fall 2009]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Potential adversaries may... potential of SBMD.</span>

**Space BMD solves conflict in North Korea, nuclear and biological terrorism, Syria strikes, and Saudi Arabian prolif**
**Pfaltzgraff et al 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, PhD and Professor of Int. Security Studies @ Tufts and President @ the IFPA, William Cleave, PhD and Professor @ Missouri State, Ilan Berman, VP for Policy @ the American Foreign Policy Council, Kiron Skinner, PhD and Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Henry Cooper, Chairman @ High Frontier, H. Baker Spring, Research Fellow @ Heritage, Jacquelyn Davis, PhD and Executive VP @ IFPA, Mead Treadwell, Senior Fellow @ Institute of the North, Daniel Fine, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, Robert Turner, Professor at University of Virginia, Robert Jastrow, PhD and Chairman of the Board @ the Marshall Institute, J.D. Williams, Vice Admiral of the USN, Thomas Karako, Director of Programs @ Claremont Institute, Paul Weyrich, CEO @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, Brian Kennedy, President @ Claremont Institute, Lowell Wood, PhD and Visiting Fellow @ Hoover, Jeff Kueter, President @ the Marshall Institute, Eric Licht, Senior Analyst @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, R. Daniel McMichael, Secretary @ the Carthage Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, “Report of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century,” Prepared by the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis,” [[https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf]])</span>
The Threat Twenty-first... greater detail below.

**North Korean nukes cause extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hayes & Hamel-Green 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">The international community... the international community</span>**

Bioweapons cause extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ochs 2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> former president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group [Richard Ochs, , June 9, 2002, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of all the... is this slope?</span>

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space-Based Radar Adv.</span>== 

**Air Force needs energy now and SPS uniquely key to solve**
**Arkin 12 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Editor, NBC Universal (Daniel, 2/22/12, “Air Force Plans Nuke-Powered Spacecraft, Space-Based Power Stations”, [[http://www.nbclosangeles.com/news/tech/NATL-Report-US-Air-Force-Plans-Energy-Revolution-139967283.html]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">The United States... to mission success.</span>

**SPS is key to effective air force space based radar and it’s overall expansion into space**
**Donley and Schwartz 12** – Secretary of the Air Force, Chief of Staff and General of the Air Force <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Nortan, 1/31/12, “Energy Horizons United States Air Force Energy S&T Vision 2011-2026”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-120209-060.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recently, there has... based assets increases.</span>

**Provides energy key to advanced radar systems**
**Puiu 12** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Tibi, 2/23/12, “Air Force plans buildings a solar power station in space and nuclear-powered spacecraft”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.michaelvacirca.com/2012/02/23/air-force-plans-buildings-a-solar-power-station-in-space-and-nuclear-powered-spacecraft/]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Last week, the... space power station.</span>

<span class="Underline">**SPS key to space based radar**</span>
<span class="Underline">**The Space Review 7** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Space Review is a website about promising space tech and how it relates to society. Taylor Dinerman is an author and journalist based in New York City. “Solar power satellites and space radar” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/910/1)SS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One of the... a win-win outcome.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space Radar solves terrorism</span>**
**Sersun ’03**
(Douglas K,- Major, USAF “EYES OF THE NATION DOES THE UNITED STATES NEED SPACE RADAR?”)
The rise of... prior to WWII.

**Bioterrorism leads to extinction**
**Kellman 08** (Barry, Professor of Law, Director, International Weapons Control Center, International Human Rights Law Institute @ DePaul U., Futurist, May 2008, “Bioviolence: A Growing Threat,” http://www.britannica.com/bps/additionalcontent/18/31535413/Bioviolence-A-Growing-Threat)
According to the... ignored said potential.

**This outweighs nuke war—larger targets, harder to treat, and psychological response.**
**Roth et al 2001** - *Paul B. Roth, MD, **Brian Hjelle, MD,** *John K. Gaffney, BBA, CEM, TEMT-P ("Bio-Medical Aspects of Bio-Terrorism and a Call to Action", edited by Joseph Rosen MD and Charles Lucey MD/JD/MPH, Institute for Security Technology Studies at Dartmouth, http://www.dartmouth.edu/~engs05/md/whitepapers/Emerging_Tech/ETech.pdf#page=294, WEA)
Not since the... and of itself.

**Nuclear terrorism likely—causes massive death and nuclear retalation**
**Rhodes 2009** – affiliate of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, Former visiting scholar at Harvard and MIT, and author of “The Making of the Atomic Bomb” which won the Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, National Book Award, and National Book Critics Circle Award (12/14, Richard, “Reducing the nuclear threat: The argument for public safety”, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/reducing-the-nuclear-threat-the-argument-public-safety)
The response was... sending a message.

**1% risk outweighs**
**Mowatt-Larssen, 2009** – senior fellow at the Belfer Center @ Harvard University, former Director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy (8/24, Rolf, “The Armageddon Test,” http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/8.2009.Armageddon%20Test.pdf)
It is not... in the vault?

**Nuclear war sucks**
**Speice 2006** (Speice, Patrick F., Jr. "Negligence and nuclear nonproliferation: eliminating the current liability barrier to bilateral U.S.-Russian nonproliferation assistance programs." William and Mary Law Review 47.4 (Feb 2006): 1427(59). Expanded Academic ASAP.)
The potential consequences... of nuclear weapons.
==Space Control Adv.== 
**Scenario One is Deterrence**

**Space weaponization is inevitable: Iran, Turkey, Indonesia, Russia, and China**
**Redifer 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- LtCol, USMC, paper submitted in fulfillment of a degree from the Air War College at Air University (Stephen, “TAKING THE INITIATIVE – PROTECTING US INTERESTS IN SPACE ,” 2/16, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=downloadpaper&objectid=be97b3ea-7800-44ee-b6ff-76dcdb7c2960&rs=PublishedSearch</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The execution of... equities in space.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Current levels of vulnerability undermine conventional and nuclear deterrence, air power, readinessand spurring miscalculation, specifically over Taiwan </span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Burke ’06 </span>(Alan,- Lt. Col “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor” 4-17 <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/|www.dtic.mil]]</span>)
The US is... identifies these recommendations.

**Deterrence is key to prevent global war**
**Schneider 2008** (Mark, Senior Analyst – National Institute for Public Policy, Ph.D. History – USC, Former Senior Officer in Positions relating to Arms Control and Nuclear Weapons Policy – DOD, Comparative Strategy, “The Future of the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent”, 27:4, Ebsco)
According to the... U.S. conventional capabilities.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Nuclear deterrence is vital to check global nuclear and biological conflict </span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">IFPA ’10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis @ International Security Studies Program ofThe Fletcher School, Tufts University,- a conference report summarizing the consenus of experts at “Air, Space, & CyberspacePower in the 21st-Century” Prepared by Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. President, IFPA and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security StudiesThe Fletcher School, Tufts University) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In marked contrast... possess nuclear weapons.</span>

**Scenario Two is China**

**The U.S. FEAR of an attack on space assets is enough for it to preemptively attack as long as the U.S. sees itself as vulnerable**
Tellis, 07 - Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Ashley, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)
Finally, the growing... race, and win.

**SSP allows the U.S. to maintain space control – it can harden satellites, make them more survivable and reconstitute lost assets rapidly**
**Ramos 2k** – US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]</span>)
Space In addition... meet warfighter requirements.

<span class="Underline">**Specifically SPS allows lighter satellites allowing them to easily dodge and outmaneuver ASATS**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Ramos 2K** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928)SS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to... microwave beamed source.</span>

**China Crises escalate rapidly – nothing checks**
**Scobell 9** (Dr. Andrew, Professor of International Affairs and Director of the China Certificate Program – Texas A&M University, “Is There a Civil-Military Gap in China’s Peaceful Rise?”, Parameters, Summer, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/09summer/scobell.pdf)
The actions suggest... in early 2008.

**Other countries will recognize U.S. space control is in their interest – as it upholds the global economic order and they directly benefit**
**Dolman, 5—**Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies
(Everett C., “U.S. Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” 9-14-05, http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf)
This rationality does... to step aside.

**Space Dominance now prevents arms races, solving space conflict**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Dolman, 5—</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (Everett C., “U.S. Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” 9/14) </span>
Seizing the initiative... of economic expansion.
==Solvency== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Government development will overcome any tech obstacles</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **Hsu, 10** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Feng, Former Research Engineer @ Brookhaven National Laboratory, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]]</span>) PhD and Former Head of NASA Goddard Center’s Risk Management</span>
Why solar energy... overcoming these issues.

**There are no technological barriers and the first demonstration would occur in 2012**
**Ashworth, 8 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society (Stephen, The Space Review, “In defense of the knights”, 6/23, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1153/1)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Usually, Day's articles... NSSO study report.</span>

**Technology for SPS exists – just requires funding transitions**
**McLinko, 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- SM Candidate (2011), Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Space Systems Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (April 2010, Ryan M., Society of Photo-optical Instrumentation Engineers, “Space-based Solar Power Generation Using a Distributed Network of Satellites and Methods for Efficient Space Power Transmission,” http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/57581)RK</span>
This paper proposes... at this point.

**Launch costs would go down immediately.**
**Eades ‘07 -** (Jeremy, “US military proposes space-based solar power station”, Futurismic Blog, 10/17, http://futurismic.com/2007/10/17/us-military-proposes-space-based-solar-power-station/)
A few weeks... for civilian consumption.
=Negative= 
==Cites== 
Refer to Westminster HX
==Strategy== 
===Milton (Varsity)=== 
Round 1: Asteroids (Kritikal)
Heidegger K

Round 3: Mars Colonization
Heidegger K
===First Year State (Novice)=== 
Round 1: SPS
Militarization DA
Case

Round 4: Space Corps
Taoism K

Round 5:
Jobs Bill DA
Case
===Vestavia (Novice)=== 
Round 3: BMD
Heg bad
SSA Sharing CP (Can be found on Westminster BW's wiki)

Round 5: Light Pollution
T- Human

Semis: SPS
Cyber Security DA
DOD Anchor Tenant CP
===UGA (Novice)=== 
Round 2: LSP
Militarization DA
Case

Round 3: SPS
Cyber Security DA
Case

Round 6: Lunar Quarentine
Cyber Security DA
Recommend CP

Octos: SPS
Militarization DA
Case

Semis: LSP
Militarization DA
Case