----
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If you have any cite requests, feel free to ask. We will try to respond as quickly as possible.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Andrew Lopez: andrewlopez700 at gmail dot com</span>
----
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deep Singh: dsingh1995 at gmail dot com</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[toc]]  </span>=== 
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmatives</span>= 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wake</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DSCVR</span>==== 

=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention One is the Status Quo</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The sun is entering a period of extreme activity in 2013**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Moskowitz 8/11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Clara, senior writer for space.com, 8/11/2011, “Solar storms building towards peak in 2013 NASA predicts,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space.com/12586-solar-storms-intensity-2013-peak-nasa.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Solar flares</span>__... <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">active phase, researchers said. </span></span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**We are more vulnerable to the effects of solar storms than ever before**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Derbyshire 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The world is overdue</span>__...<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> space agency said</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The current solar storm monitoring satellite is outdated and will fail to provide warning for a major storm**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**CARV 5/18** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Concept Activity Research Vault, 5/18/2011 develops historical, current and predictive private-sector concepts from report posts stimulating global commentary, Satellite outages now critical data problem, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/2011/05/18/satellite-outages-now-critical-data-problem/]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Advanced Composition Explorer</span>... __NASA calculated life expectance.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**There is no funding for the updated version of this technology, the Deep Space Climate Observatory, or DSCOVR**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Turner 7/13** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[SpaceNews staff writer, 2011 “House Panel Denies Funding for Space Climate Probe, Satellite Constellation” http://www.space.com/12259-house-panel-space-climate-satellites-funding.html]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The U.S. House Appropriations</span>__...__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> provide funding for either. </span>__</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan Text</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Plan: The United States Federal Government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention Two is Solar Storms</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Solar storms would destroy communications infrastructure and GPS**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**IBT 11’**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [International Business Times, “Severe Solar Storms Could Disrupt Earth This Decade: NOAA” </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/194166/20110808/solar-storms-severe-solar-storms-earth-paralyse-carrington-event.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration</span>...<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> extremely high radiation levels. </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**That’s key to the economy. The magnitude of this internal is huge**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. **NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,”** </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Commercially, </span>__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">the economy of the U</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited...without pay-at-the-pump capability.”9 </span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economic collapse leads to great power wars</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mead 9 **<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Walter Russell. Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. 2/4/9. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">So far, such half-hearted experiments</span>...__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">, we may still have to fight.</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solar storms cause long term blackouts</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Butt 10 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Yousaf, Staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University, 2/1 “ The EMP threat: fact, fiction, and response ” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">For the reasons outlined above...</span> __years are possible__ [25].**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This is another econ internal – even a few days without electricity collapses the economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bryan 03 **<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jay, The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec), August 19, SECTION: Business; Opinion on the Blackout; Pg. B1, HEADLINE: Power grids vital in information age: "Just a few days could theoretically take economic growth ... right down to zero" l/n</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">This worsened the</span>__... __an information-age economy.__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DSCOVR solves for solar storms by providing early warning</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Clark 11 **<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Stephen, Reporter for Spaceflight Now, 2/21, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission” http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The White House... solar maximum in 2013.</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DSCOVR is scientifically vital to solar weather prediction</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lautenbacher 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010</span>**,** Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The DSCOVR</span>__...__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> launch funding be eliminated.</span>__</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 5 is Global Warming</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Warming is inevitable – status quo CO2 emissions and oceanic feedbacks**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Solomon et al,</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ‘</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">09</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106, http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Over the 20th century... level of carbon dioxide reached.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Climate change causes global humanitarian crises</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Parsons 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Rymn J., Assistant Counsel to and Environmental Practice Team Leader for Naval Facilities Engineering Command, Taking Up the Security Challenge of Climate Change, Strategic Studies Institute August 2009]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Climate change will have dramatic</span>...<span class="underline"> international state system will suffer. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">And, absent Climate Data, US power fails to respond to these – decapitates effective interventionism to check</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Climate change will likely</span>...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> to meet future challenges. </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">US military power is the only way to check the escalation of these conflicts – the only scenario in which military power is necessary is to respond to environmental based crises.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Burton and Nagl, ’10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[February 2010, Brian M. Burton –the Bacevich Fellow at the Center of a New American Security, received an M.A. with honors in Security Studies from Georgetown University, earned a B.A. in political science from Stanford University, AND Dr. John A. Nagl – President of the Center for a New American Security, former Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, “The Future Of The U.S. Military Officer Corps: Strategic Context”, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/FINAL%2010102CNA%20Officership%20Report.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, SM]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">There is an emerging consensus...</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Data in the long term is inevitable but it needs to be operational</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Given the proliferation of new tools</span>...<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> professionals need to ask. </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Increased observation is key to make international data operational</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Parthermore and Rogers 2011</span>****<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Christine and Will, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security. Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security. “Blinded: The Decline of US Earth Monitoring Capabilities and its Consequences for National Security”, July 2011, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Our research suggests that... environmental and climate change. </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Scenario 1 is Indo-Pak**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Warming causes Indo-Pak war, disrupts irrigation patterns in Kashmir.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">IPS 2010 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Inter Press Service, January 18, "India/Pakistan: Reduced Himalayan snowfall could spark water war" http://www.alertnet.org/thenews/newsdesk/ips/14ecc8996051f75493d532d312e580ae.htm]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">SRINAGAR , Jan 18 (<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ipsnews.net/|IPS]]</span>) - </span><span class="underline" style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">declining snow cover... mountains," said Prof Sultan.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**US military is key to solve, otherwise it escalates to a global nuclear war and draws in great powers**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Baker 2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Michael L., former International Affairs resident fellow at CFR, The Coming Conflicts of Climate Change, September 7 2010, http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/coming-conflicts-climate-change/p22886]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Perhaps </span><span class="underline" style="font-size: 13.3333px;">nowhere is this... </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">by climate change.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Scenario 2 is Africa**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Climate migration creates African instability – preventative deployment and international cooperation is key, lack of preventative planning causes reactive deployment which triggers great power wars**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith 2007 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Paul J., associate professor of national security affairs at the United States Naval War College, Climate Change, Mass Migration and the Military Response, Orbis Fall 2007, https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/FSE/FuturesPap/ClimateCha0/file/_WFS/%20Orbis2--climate%20change%20and%20mass%20migration.pdf]</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Deployment of military forces</span>...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> forces in a reactive manner. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Great power draw in escalates to global nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deutsch ’02** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Jeffrey Deutsch Founder @ Rabid Tigers Project, 2002, "Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9 - The Nuclear Family Has Become Over-Extended," http://list.webengr.com/pipermail/picoipo/2002-November/000208.html]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The Rabid Tiger Project believes</span>... follow their client states.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">DSCOVR solves-</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">A. Key to Observation</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Donahue 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Bill, Who Killed the Deep Space Climate Observatory?, PopSci 4-6-11, Portland based writer, http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Since 1999, </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">NASA and NOAA... systems could depend</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">B. Calibration </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Williams 2008</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Obama’s first presidential pardon</span>...<span class="underline"> environmentalism a great boost</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the 1970s. </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">C. Integration</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Valero 2007</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Francisco, DSCOVR, Earth Sciences from a New Perspective, Abstract from Seminar at the Atmospheric Physics Dept. at the University of Warsaw, [[http://www.igf.fuw.edu.pl/zfa/?option=com_seminars&Itemid=41&lang=en&archive=1&year=2007-2008&func=view&seminar=91]]]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">The L-1 and L-2 Earth-Sun... </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">D. Data Gaps</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wiscombe and Herman 2002</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Warren and Jay, PhD in applied math from CalTech senior scientist at Goddard Chief Scientist for Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, L-1 and L-2 Observatories for Earth Science in the Post-2010 Era</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://esto.nasa.gov/conferences/igarss-2002/02Papers/02060940.PDF]</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The L1 and L2 Lagrange point... </span>spaceborne platforms”</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Georgetown</span>=== 

=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Observation 1 is Desire</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**It is insufficient to discuss space exploration only at the macro level. This is because the power which creates decisions does not begin at the state, it begins with the self. Current space policy is a product of an active force called desire.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deleuze and Guattari 77 (Anti-Oedipus 26-29)**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In a word, when the theoretician reduces</span>...**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> reach the point of shouting: "More taxes! Less bread!"</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">?</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Desire manifests itself at the local level – the unconscious – and resonates into a group order, powering politics. Failure to investigate motivations at the level of desire abandons any possibility of understanding how political formations come to be and ensures serial policy failure.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ballantyne 2007 (Andrew, Tectonic Cultures Research Group at Newcastle University , "Deleuze and Guattari for Architects" 27-28)**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">So these habits of thought, once they are planted</span>... from an alternate view, to have an inaccurate aspect.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The way desire is relegated in the status quo allows for colonialist ideology to manifest within a state structure. Current space exploration policy has been grounded within nationalist ideology – the desire to expand and research space has been justified by the idea of technological transcendence and accomplishment.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dinerstein 2k6 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Dinerstein, Joel [Assistant Professor of English at Tulane University ] “Technology and Its Discontents: On the Verge of the Posthuman” American Quarterly, Volume 58, Number 3, Septermber 2006, pp. 581)</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">That Columbia was the name... history is to deny what [or that] God does."</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Once fascist ideology is encompassed within a governmental structure, a despotic state is achieved – all surplus is owed to despot, including money, lives, and even the womb. The impact is no value to life and limitless slaughter.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Holland 1999 (Eugene, Associate Professor of French and Comparative Literature at the Ohio State University; Deleuze and Guatarri’s Anti-Oedipus and introduction to Schitzoanalysis) Pg 74**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">In despotic society, the forces of anti-production</span>...__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> expenditure as material goods do</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Our discussion must begin with Desire. It is worthless to talk of state politics without recognizing our responsibility in shaping the current political landscape. Fascism is not handed down from the USFG to the masses; rather it originates in the desires of the masses.**</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Thus Deep and I advocate that the United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of space beyond the earth’s mesosphere as a line of flight. We spread outwards creating new offshoots and branches as a way of experimenting with desire. Our politics is one of disrupting the static and invoking a multiplicity of change – constantly shifting the way desire is invested within the social field.**</span>



=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Observation 2 is Space**</span>===== 



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**We should engage space as an “abstract” concept; something that can be explored metaphorically. By exploring the vast ground of infinite possibilities within a spacial realm we will be able to escape from social and political binaries.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Land 2005**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**(Christopher Land, Published in Ephemera: Theory and Politics in Organization, 2005, "Apomorphine Silence - Cutting Up Burroughs' Theory of Language and Control.")**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In Burroughs’ work we can see the explicit... </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">engagements with words and images</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**We have the ability to create smooth space through our affirmation – open territories that are not constricted by rigid borderlines. We are against divisions and articulations of place and order. Our exploration of space is essential in breaking down the hierarchies, binaries, and striations that are existent in the status quo.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Conley in 2006 (Verena Andermatt, professor of literature at Harvard, "Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, 95-100)**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">In their dialogues and collaborations</span>...<span style="font-size: 16px;"> every utopian scenario, </span><span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">all identity is undone</span>**</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>**</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Observation 3 is Framework**</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The logic of facile, uncritical affirmation of the resolution is founded by a managerial discourse bent on maintaining stifling, predictable order at all costs. The point of policies advocated in this manner has never been their explicit aims but to leave unchallenged and uncontested our fundamental assumptions about our political reality. Our affirmative instead attempts to speak in a critical language of desire. Our goal is not to begin a political movement in the liberal-democratic sense but to invoke new tropes of political reality. This process, once begun, escapes from the blind alleys of pre-established political identities.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Goddard in 2k6 (July 6th, 2006: The Encounter between Guattari and Berandi and the Post – Modern Era “Felix and Alice in Wonderland”; http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpbifo1.htm)**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">What this type of radio achieved most of all was</span>... at the present stage to outline projections of societal change.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**We will argue there is no higher power to determine language for us, and instead we should question what that language DOES, not what it MEANS. We should question what these political affirmations DO, not whether can even discuss them.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Finally, this affirmation is a record. Philosophy is always changing its outlook, content, and sound. Certainly a core is retained, but the excesses to that core have a way of evolving**.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Brian Massumi, 1983 (Professor at U of Montreal, Masters and Doctoral degrees in French Literature from Yale University and completed postdoctoral work at Stanford University.; Ph. D., is a political theorist, writer and philosopher; A Thousand Plateaus, Introduction)**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">"State philosophy" is another word for the representational thinking that has characterized Western metaphysics</span>**</span>...<span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> You find yourself humming them under your breath as you go about your daily business</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Ohio Valley</span>=== 
=====**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention 1 is White Supremacy </span>**===== 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The ignorance of racial struggles manifests itself in space debates through epistemological ethnocentrism where any achievement deemed to fall outside the euro-centric space is destroyed or co-opted. Specifically the rhetoric of exploration, discovery, and extra-terrestriality are used to demonize non-european space.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">MILLS</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Charles; //The Racial Contract//; p. 44-46</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">There are two main dimensions to this norming</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> correspondingly, sometimes referred to as "New Canaan."</span>


**Technology is the new American religion. Fables of technological utopianism within the NASA mythos are fueled by white supremacy and evade criticism to prevent change.**
**Dinerstein 2k6 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Dinerstein, Joel [Assistant Professor of English at Tulane University ] “Technology and Its Discontents: On the Verge of the Posthuman” American Quarterly, Volume 58, Number 3, Septermber 2006, pp. 569-570)</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Immediately after 9/11, a Middle East correspondent for The Nation summarized the</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> By the conclusion, I hope to have shown that the posthuman is an escape from the panhuman.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 16px;">THE HORRORS OF RACISM ARE UNMATCHED.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">MILLS</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Charles-; //The Racial Contract//; p. 98-102</span>


**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Correspondingly, the Racial Contract also... then you will end up with that.</span>__**

=====**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention 2 is Why it Exists</span>**===== 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">It is insufficient to discuss this white supremacist system only at the state level. This is because the power that creates racist institutions does not begin at the state, it begins with the self. </span><span class="cite" style="font-size: 16px;">The state and the global order of politics are ultimately only the collection of individual desires, coming together into a larger force. To challenge these structures, we must begin with desire.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Deleuze and Guattari 1980</span> (A Thousand Plateaus 214-215)

<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">It is not sufficient to define bureaucracy by a rigid segmentarity</span>**</span>...<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> cherish with molecules both personal and collective.</span>**</span>
<span class="underline"> </span>
<span class="underline"> </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Desire manifests itself at the local level – the individual – and comes together into a group order, powering politics. Failure to investigate motivations at the level of the individual abandons any possibility of understanding how political formations come to be and ensures serial policy failure.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ballantyne 2007</span>** (Andrew, Tectonic Cultures Research Group at Newcastle University , "Deleuze and Guattari for Architects" 27-28)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">So </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">these habits of thought, once</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> alternate view, to have an inaccurate aspect.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Our discussion must begin with Desire. It is worthless to talk of white supremacist state politics without recognizing our responsibility in shaping the current political landscape. Fascism is not handed down from the federal government to the masses, rather it originates in the desires of the masses. Before change can take place at the macrolevel we must challenge the very fascist inside of us.</span>**



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thus Deep and I advocate an exploration of space beyond the earth’s mesosphere through rhizomatic politics. Rhizomatic politics is the process of constantly experimenting with new political outlooks. This stops the creation of concrete white supremacist institutions.</span>**



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">We should engage space as an “abstract” concept. By exploring the vast ground of infinite possibilities within a spacial realm we will be able to escape from social and political binaries. </span>**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Land 2005</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Christopher Land, Published in Ephemera: Theory and Politics in Organization, 2005, “Apomorphine Silence - Cutting Up Burroughs' Theory of Language and Control.”)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">In Burroughs’ work we can see the explicit relation of the production</span>... artistic engagements with words and images<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">We have the ability to explore new possibilities through our affirmation. We are against divisions and articulations of place and order. Our exploration of space is essential in breaking down the white system that is in the status quo. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Conley in 2006</span>** (Verena Andermatt, professor of literature at Harvard, “Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, 95-100, Disclaimer, Deep and Andrew do not endorse Conley’s usage of gendered language)

<span class="underline"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">In their dialogues and collaborations</span>... scenario, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">all identity is undone</span>.

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">We will argue there is no higher power to determine language for us, and instead we should question what that language DOES, not what it MEANS. We should question what these political affirmations DO, not whether can even discuss them.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Philosophy is always changing its outlook, content, and sound. Certainly a core is retained, but the excesses to that core have a way of evolving</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brian Massumi, 1983</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Professor at U of Montreal, Masters and Doctoral degrees in French Literature from Yale University and completed postdoctoral work at Stanford University.; Ph. D., is a political theorist, writer and philosopher; A Thousand Plateaus, Introduction)</span>

<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Nomad thought" does not immure itself</span>**</span>...<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> humming them under your breath as you go about your daily business</span>**</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">.</span>__**

=====**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention 3 is Framework</span>**===== 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The logic of uncritical affirmation of the resolution is founded on a managerial discourse bent on maintaining predictable order at all costs. Our goal is not to begin a political movement in the liberal-democratic sense but to invoke new visions of political reality. This process escapes from the blind alleys of pre-established political identities. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Goddard in 2k6</span>** (July 6th, 2006: The Encounter between Guattari and Berandi and the Post – Modern Era “Felix and Alice in Wonderland”; http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpbifo1.htm)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">What this type of radio achieved most of all</span>... outline projections of societal change.”

**The role of the ballot is to reject the white supremacist system at the individual level.**
**Memmi,<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris, </span>2K**
**Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The struggle against racism will be long</span>...<span class="underline"> but the stakes are irresistible.</span>










=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Negative</span>=