Affirmative
Major solar flares are inevitable in the next few years
Butt, physicist in the High-Energy Astrophysics Division at the
Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 2010 (Yousaf M., “The EMP
threat: fact, fiction, and response,” February 1,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/1]]</span>)
For the reasons… to long-lines.

The probability is 100%
Sternstein, staff correspondent at Nextgov, 2010 (Aliya, “Agencies
rush to replace aging satellite to predict damaging solar storms,”
Nextgov, part of the National Journal Group Inc. and the Atlantic
Media Company, August 9,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.nextgov.com/nextgov/ng_20100809_7393.php]]</span>)
Every 11 years… not that great."

NASA’s Advanced Composition Explorer provides early warning of solar
flares—however, it’s past its life expectancy and will fail before the
big one
Concept Activity Research Vault, 2011 (“Satellite Outages Now Critical
Data Problem,” May 19,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@https://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/2011/05/18/satellite-outages-now-critical-data-problem/]]</span>)
In 1997, NASA… calculated life expectance.

ACE is uniquelykey for early warning – it’s the only way to prevent blackouts
Sternstein, staff correspondent at Nextgov, 2010 (Aliya, “Agencies
rush to replace aging satellite to predict damaging solar storms,”
Nextgov, part of the National Journal Group Inc. and the Atlantic
Media Company, August 9,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.nextgov.com/nextgov/ng_20100809_7393.php]]</span>)
To gauge the… very short window."

Thankfully, the Deep Space Climate Observatory, or DSCOVR, has been
tapped to replace ACE
Clark, 2011 (Stephen, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather
mission,” Spaceflight Now, February 21,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]]</span>)
The White House… activity on Earth.


Thus, the plan:

The United States federal government should fully fund the launch of
the Deep Space Climate Observatory as a replacement for the Advanced
Composition Explorer.


Huge solar flares will wipe out our electrical grid, causing
catastrophic blackouts
Brooks, English scientist and author, Ph.D. in Quantum Physics, 2009
(Michael, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe,” New
Scientist, March 23,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg20127001.300-space-storm-alert-90-seconds-from-catastrophe.html?DCMP=OTC-rss&nsref=online-news]]</span>)
Over the last… sophisticated technological regions

Even limited blackouts will spillover due to interdependency
National Research Council, 2008 (“Severe Space Weather
Events—Understanding Societal and Economic Impacts,” Committee on the
Societal and Economic Impacts of Severe Space Weather Events: A
Workshop)
Caverly discussed how… down both locations.

The immediate impact is millions of deaths within days and a collapse
of the economy
Brooks, English scientist and author, Ph.D. in Quantum Physics, 2009
(Michael, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe,” New
Scientist, March 23,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg20127001.300-space-storm-alert-90-seconds-from-catastrophe.html?DCMP=OTC-rss&nsref=online-news]]</span>)
With no power… and balanced report."

Additionally, blackouts collapse the global financial system
Marusek, nuclear physicist and engineer, 2007 (James A., “Solar Storm
Threat Analysis,” Impact,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.breadandbutterscience.com/SSTA.pdf]]</span>)
A major electrical… transmitting financial data.

Blackouts will also crash the stock market
Virk, 2011 (Jaspreet, “2013 solar storms may destroy Earth’s satellite
communications,” The Money Times, May 20,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.themoneytimes.com/featured/20110520/2013-solar-storms-may-destroy-earth039s-satellite-communications-id-101701710225.h]]</span>)
Remember the powerful… stock market crash.

This leads to economic depression
Romer, Class of 1957 Garff B. Wilson Professor of Economics at the
University of California, Berkeley and a former Chair of the Council
of Economic Advisers in the Obama administration, 2003 (Christina D.,
Encyclopedia Brittanica, December 20,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://elsa.berkeley.edu/~cromer/great_depression.pdf]]</span>)
The stock market… to finance investment

The impact is extinction
Bearden, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army (retired), Director,
Association of Distinguished American Scientists, 2000 (T.E., “The
Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How We Can Solve It,” June 12,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.cheniere.org/techpapers/Unnecessary%20Energy%20Crisis.doc]]</span>)
Bluntly, we foresee… for many decades.

Additionally, blackouts lead to meltdowns at nuclear reactors
Earth Issues, 2011 (“Experts: Move to protect nuke plants from solar
flare damage,” March 5,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.earth-issues.com/2011/03/experts-move-to-protect-nuke-plants-from-solar-flare-damage/]]</span>)
Nuclear power plants… and $5 million each


This causes dozens of meltdowns – there will be 30 Chernobyls in the US alone
Popular Science, June 30, 2011 (Damon Tabor, “Are We Prepared for a
Catastrophic Solar Storm?,”
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-05/are-we-prepared-catastrophic-solar-storm]]</span>)
One of the biggest… one to two years


The impact is hundreds of millions of deathsglobally – this outweighs
nuclear war
Lendman, Research Associate of the Center for Research on
Globalization, 2011 (Stephen, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,”
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.opednews.com/articles/Nuclear-Meltdown-in-Japan-by-Stephen-Lendman-110313-843.html]]</span>)
Fukushima Daiichi "nuclear… will be jeopardized.


All of these impacts are compounded globally – means the end of civilization
Marusek, nuclear physicist and engineer, 2007 (James A., “Solar Storm
Threat Analysis,” Impact,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.breadandbutterscience.com/SSTA.pdf]]</span>)
There is a singular… come crashing down



The US is the preeminent military power now
Brooks, Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, and
Wohlforth, Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, 2008 (Stephen
and William, World Out of Balance, pg. 27-31)
“Nothing has ever … cheap is astonishing.

Huge solar flares knock out satellites
Marusek, nuclear physicist and engineer, 2007 (James A., “Solar Storm
Threat Analysis,” Impact,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.breadandbutterscience.com/SSTA.pdf]]</span>)
In the past, … can be fatal.


Only DSCOVR can allow satellites to be powered down
Turner, correspondent for The Christian Science Monitor, 2009 (James,
“Solar storms ahead: Is Earth prepared?,” The Christian Science
Monitor, May 5,
<span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.csmonitor.com/Innovation/Tech/2009/0505/solar-storms-ahead-is-earth-prepared]]</span>)
Part of the …. nascent at best.

GPS satellites are key to military power projection
Military Hub, 2010 (“Military GPS Illustrates Military Technology
Dependency,” July 26, <span style="color: #374352;">[[@http://www.militaryhub.com/article.cfm?id=210]]</span>)
What would happen… Iraq and Afghanistan.

US hegemony solves every impact
Thayer, Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic
Studies at Missouri State University, 2006 (Bradley, “In Defense of
Primacy,” The National Interest, December, Lexis)
THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace… the United States.

Solar flares disrupt the DOD’s space situational awareness
National Research Council, 2008 (“Severe Space Weather
Events—Understanding Societal and Economic Impacts,” Committee on the
Societal and Economic Impacts of Severe Space Weather Events: A
Workshop)
U.S. presidential policy… close for comfort.

Space situational awareness is key to space deterrence and
first-strike capability
Morgan, senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation, 2010
(Forrest E., “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A
Preliminary Assessment,” prepared for the US Air Force)
While many options… space deterrence regime.

This solves global deterrence
Morgan, senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation, 2010
(Forrest E., “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A
Preliminary Assessment,” prepared for the US Air Force)
Although this assessment… deterrence and stability.