[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=***Satellite Hardening***= 

=1AC – Plan= 

**The United States federal government should implement a defensive space strategy that emphasizes satellite hardening, replacement, redundancy, stealth and situational awareness.**

=1AC – Observation One – Crisis Miscalculation= 

**Our Space Assets are increasingly vulnerable – ASAT tests, debris, congestion and the arms race**

**Clapper and Gates, 2011 – Director of National Intelligence, Secretary of Defense**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [U.S. National Security Space Strategy—Unclassified Summary,’’ January ,http://www.defense.gov/home/features/2011/0111_nsss/docs/NationalSecuritySpaceStrategyUnclassifiedSummary_Jan2011.pd</span>

__Space is vital to U.S. national …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">civil and commercial sectors depend.</span>

**Chinese tests have sparked a global arms race. Our satellites are vulnerable to other countries ASATs or cyber terrorists, which invites a preemptive strike** 

**Denmark 2010 - Fellow with the Center for a New American Security**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [By Abraham M. and Dr. James Mulvenon CNAS, Jan, Contested Commons: The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS%20Contested]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> %20Commons%20Capstone_0.pdf Accessed Jun 21]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In an environment where all … </span>__of terrorism in zero gravity.__

**Space vulnerability and instability are increasing, raising the risk of conflict. Defensive space measure can increase deterrence while avoiding a destabilizing arms race.** 

**MacDonald 09,** **former assistant director for national security at the White House** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Bruce W., “Testimony of Bruce W. MacDonald”, Council of Foreign Affairs, Before the Strategic Forces Subcommittee and House Armed Services Committee, March 18, [[http://www.cfr.org/china/space-security/p18862]], Accessed July 12 2011]</span>

__Our space assets are exposed … long as this is true.__

**<span style="color: black;">Chinese capabilities and intentions prove they pursue asymmetric warfare -– this is based on readings of Chinese doctrine and law. China exploits international law for their advantage.</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Bellflower 2010, instructor at the Advanced Space Operations School </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[Air Force Judge Advocate General School. The Air Force Law Review. The influence of law on command of space name: major john w. Bellflower Lexis Accessed June 21, 2011]</span>

__<span style="color: black;">The lack of transparency in … </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">activities in the space domain.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**Space militarization undermines crisis stability – it invites preemption during a crisis because it undermines deterrence. An arms race is inherently unstable because it favors asymmetry**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**MacDonald 8**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">—</span>**former assistant director for …** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">, accessed 7-12-11]</span>

Attacking others’ satellites would invite … <span class="Underline">address defensive and offensive measures</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.15</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="color: black;">The Impact is global nuclear war</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**Hoey, 2006**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - </span>**a Research Associate at the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Matthew, The Space Review, “Military space systems: the road ahead,” 2/27, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Many people believe that </span>__a deployed …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">potential development could become a reality.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**Miscalculation in Space Escalates to full scale war – there is no control of space war**

**Krepon, 2003 – president of the Henry Stimson Center**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Michael, Space Assurance or Space Dominance? THE CASE AGAINST WEAPONIZING SPACE, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The inherent escalatory potential of … </span>__than in dominance__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and compellance. </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
=1AC - Observation Two - Hegemony= 

**Satellite vulnerability is the key weakness in our hegemony – three reasons**

**First – Military capability - our military depends on space assets**

**Walsh 2007 - Georgetown University Law Center**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Frank M. Associate, Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, LLP Journal of Air Law and Commerce “forging a diplomatic shield for american satellites: the case for reevaluating the 2006 national space policy in light of a chinese anti-satellite system” Fall, 7/12/11, Lexis] </span>

__Satellites serve as the foundation … bring down a seemingly unstoppable warrior.__

**Second – Rising Hegemons - Vulnerable space assets cause rising powers to challenge our hegemony.**

**Tellis 2007 - senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues. PhD from U of Chicago Ashley J. Tellis, August, 30 2007, published online on September, 1 2007, “China's Military Space Strategy”, Survivial, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/tellis_china_space1.pdf]], accessed 7-14]</span>

__The strategic logic of Chinese …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">] rise, particularly through strategically encircling it.25</span>

**Third – Power Projection - if our satellites are vulnerable, we will not be able to deploy forward naval forces**

**Cynamon 9 Former Deputy Program Director, Space and Nuclear Network Group**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Charles, "Defending America's Interest In Space" February 12 2009, Acsessed July 13, 2011 http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada539893.pdf] ] </span>

__Without a doubt the United States …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">the overall strategic environment discussion.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**Forward deployment is key to global hegemony and peace – crisis escalation, reassuring allies, deterrence and demonstrating resolve**

**Johnson, 2009, Chief of Naval Operations**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Admiral Jay L., & General Charles C. Krulak, Commandant of the Marine Corps, August 17, “Forward presence essential to American interests” <http://www.navy.mil/navydata/navy_legacy_hr.asp?id=274> Web. Acc. 07/15/2011]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">S</span>__ome argue that the forward … conflict.__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">This is forward presence.</span>


**The Impact - Effective US Hegemony solves multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict between nationalist regional hegemons – a multipolar or offshore balancing role is a fantasy.** 

**Robert Kagan, 2007 senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, web)</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Finally, there is the United … </span>will provide an easier path.</span>

**Specifically - China’s space build up is intended to challenge US deployment protecting Taiwan – Space assets are key to sea power. US vulnerability will cause China to miscalculate in the Strait**

**Dillon, 2008 – Naval Postgraduate School**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Matthew Master’s Candidate September 2008 **[[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA488669]]** Implications of the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test for the United States Navy Surface Forces Accessed July 12, 2011]</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">__On January 11, 2007, China destroyed a l__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">ow </span>__… been iterated every successive year__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.9</span></span>

<span class="Underline">**China will miscalculate in Taiwan – they will not negotiate or cooperate if they think that they can hold our space assets at risk with their ASATs**</span>

**Dillon, 2008 – Naval Postgraduate School**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Matthew Master’s Candidate September 2008 **[[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA488669]]** Implications of the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test for the United States Navy Surface Forces Accessed July 12, 2011]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Offense dominance is the assessment … </span>__quickly spirals out of control.__ 

**This vulnerability will tempt China to attack**

**Dillon, 2008 – Naval Postgraduate School**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Matthew Master’s Candidate September 2008 **[[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA488669]]** Implications of the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test for the United States Navy Surface Forces Accessed July 12, 2011]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">On January 11, 2007, China successfully tested … of an ASAT weapon attack. </span>

**Taiwan conflict leads to nuclear Armageddon** 

**Strait Times 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(June 25, “Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan”, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO THE high-… </span>__puts sovereignty above everything else.__

**Space situational awareness is critical to defending Taiwan – it protects our space assets which counter a Chinese invasion**

**Ahearn 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Reporter for Defense Daily</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dave, 5/30, Defense Daily, Doeing Bids for Space Situational Awareness Contract, Lexis Nexis, 7/13/11.]</span>

__SASSA and other threat detection …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">is where SASSA would help.</span>

=1AC - Observation Three Solvency= 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Building defensive weapons under a deterrence based doctrine will prevent a conflict with China. This prevents a destabilizing arms race with China. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">MacDonald 2008 – Council on Foreign Relations</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Bruce, Council Special Report No. 38 September China, Space Weapons, date accessed : June 24th, 2011, http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The United States faces challenging … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">program should accompany these steps. </span>__

<span class="Underline">**Space Situational awareness is critical to preventing miscalculations – it identifies unintentional incidents like debris**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Cartwright 2011 - vice Chair Joint Chiefs of Staff**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [General James, center for strategic and international studies (csis) the national security space strategy: implications for the department of defense FEBRUARY 16, 2011http://csis.org/files/attachments/110216_spacestrategy_transcript.pdf Accessed July 12]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">GEN. CARTWRIGHT: The concept of … security issues are better managed.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**Hardening, stealth and redundancy all reduce satellite vulnerability**

**Frey 2008, graduate of Squadron Officer School,**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [former defender of the Airforce in lawsuits as the chief of labor law and served as a chief of claims, legal assistance, and civil law at Patrick AFB, Florida, Defense of US Space Assets: A Legal Perspective. Air And Space Power Journal, Vol. 22, Iss. 4; pg. 75-86. Winter 2008, Proquest ]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Second, </span>__several possibilities for reducing …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">suddenly unavailable to war fighters.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="color: black;">Defensive protections don’t cause an arms race – one already exists, there is an economic limit to an arms race and defense Deters an arms race by making ASATs ineffective.</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="color: black;">Schendzielos 08 - major United States Air Force, Command and General Staff College</span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> [ Kurt M. Schendzielos, 30-04-2008, Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites, http://www.stormingmedia.us/35/3555/A355584.html access date: July 13, 2011] </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Lastly, </span>__one__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">very popular</span> __argument … motivation to resort to ASATs.__
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="color: black;">Reconstitution is critical to hegemony – crippled satellites undermine power projection – we are vulnerable now</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="color: black;">Schendzielos 08 - major United States Air Force, Command and General Staff College</span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> [ Kurt M. Schendzielos, 30-04-2008, Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites, http://www.stormingmedia.us/35/3555/A355584.html access date: July 13, 2011] </span>

<span style="color: black;">All aspects of American power … and possibly even world economy.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**Improving satellite defenses deters attacks – it denies the benefits of pre-emption**

**Sheldon 08, - Fellow at the Marshall Institute** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[John Sheldon - was program director for Space Security at the Centre for De-fence and International Security Studies, Washington Roundtable on Science & Public Policy, “Deterrence in Space”, Nov. 13, [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/622.pdf]], Accessed July 14 2011]</span>

__There are more concrete measures …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">are being used in orbit.</span>

**Protection of US space assets deters attacks because it mitigates asymmetrical vulnerability.**

**Lynn, 2011 – Deputy Secretary of State** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[William J. Lynn, III A Military Strategy for the New Space Environment The Washington Quarterly SUMMER http://www.twq.com/11summer/docs/11summer_Lynn.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Third, </span>__we need to make … vital space capabilities from attack.__







=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]