[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Plan Text: The United States federal government should deploy space based solar power.</span>**</span></span>
=== === 
===<span style="text-align: left;">Contention 1 Hegemony</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">DOD oil dependence straightjackets our forces and operational capacity, this hampers power projection and makes our military posture unsustainable</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Crowley et. al 7</span>*Thomas D. Crowley is a Policy Consultant for LMI Tonya D. Corrie is a policy consultant for LMI *David B. Diamond is a policy consultant for LMIStuart D. Funk is a policy Consultant for LMI*Wilhelm A. Hansen, Andrea D. Stenhoff, and Daniel C. Swift are policy consultants for LMILMI is a governmental consulting organization [<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA467003|http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?]]</span>
<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA467003|Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA467003]]</span>, april 2007, “Transforming the Way DOD Looks at Energy”]
The goal of our security strategies is to ....<span style="text-decoration: none;">force may be unsustainable in the long term.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">DOD fuel consumption will ONLY rise </span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Crowley et. al 7</span>*Thomas D. Crowley is a Policy Consultant for LMI Tonya D. Corrie is a policy consultant for LMI *David B. Diamond is a policy consultant for LMIStuart D. Funk is a policy Consultant for LMI*Wilhelm A. Hansen, Andrea D. Stenhoff, and Daniel C. Swift are policy consultants for LMILMI is a governmental consulting organization
[<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA467003|http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-**bin/GetTRDoc?**Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA467003]]</span>, april 2007, “Transforming the Way DOD Looks at Energy”]
Department-wide and service-specific strategy ....efficient consumption across all aspects of military operations.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">SPS key – provides the only sustainable power source to the military</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Taylor Dinerman, senior editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York branch and co-author of the forthcoming Towards a Theory of Spacepower: Selected Essays, from National Defense University Press, 11/24/2008, “Space solar power and the Khyber Pass”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1255/1</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Last year the National Security Space Office released ....have helped them adapt to the modern world. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And its try or die, disruptions in supply can happen at any time </span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Parthemore and Rogers 10</span>*Christine Parthemore is a fellow at the Center for New American Security Will Rogers is a research assistant at the Center for New American Security
[[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Sustaining%20Security_Parthemore%20Rogers.pdf]],June 2010, “Sustaining Security How Natural Resources Influence National Security”]
Recognition of the geostrategic, strategic and operational ....security are considered a top concern by many analysts

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Strong forward deployment prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict </span>****
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Robert Kagan, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review (http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Finally, there is the United States itself....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
===Contention 2 is Energy=== 

====**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Scenario 1 is Warming</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Terrestrial energy sources all have fatal flaws</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">National Space Society 11</span>, independent, educational, grassroots, non-profit organization dedicated to the creation of a space faring civilization, 7/13/11, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/index.htm|www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/index.htm]]]
•Unlike oil, gas, ethanol, ....resources of the solar system within economic reach.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Global warming is real and anthropegenic - thousands of studies prove</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Rahmstorf 08</span> (Stefan Rahmstorf, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, 2008, “Anthropegenic Climate Change: Revisiting the Facts”)
It is time to turn to statement B...<span style="text-decoration: none;">a reality with which we need to deal.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And, we’re nearing the point of no return—holding the line on current emissions while transitioning to solar power key to check feedback cycles</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Biello 10</span> (David Biello, award winning journalist and associate editor for Scientific American, 9/9/10, Scientific American, “How Much Global Warming Is Guaranteed Even If We Stopped Building Coal-Fired Plants Today?”, [[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=guaranteed-global-warming-with-existing-fossil-fuel-infrastructure]])
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Humanity has yet to reach the point of ....</span>, perhaps 30 [terawatts] by 2050."

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only SPS supplies the power needed for a sustainable energy transition</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Snead 09</span> (James M. Snead, P.E., is a senior member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) a past chair of the AIAA’s Space Logistics Technical Committee, and the founder and president of the Spacefaring Institute LLC, 5/4/2009, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power”, The Space Review, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1]])<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">A key element of a well-reasoned ....serious engineering development of SSP be started now.</span>

**U.S. leadership on climate change gets other countries on board**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Paul </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Harris</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Professor of Political Science @ Lingnan University, 20</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">09</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Energy Policy, Vol. 37, Iss. 3, March)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">For those interested in climate change and the ....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">the United States and its people to do</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Warming causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Deibel 07</span> (, Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007 (Terry L., “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft” pages 397-8)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Finally, there is one major existential threat ....the continued existence of life on this planet.</span>

====**Scenario 2 is Peak Oil**==== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Peak oil coming.</span>**
John Bellamy <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Foster,</span> professor of sociology at the University of Oregon, 20<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">05</span>, “Peak Oil and Energy Imperialism”
<span style="text-decoration: none;">In the five years that have elapsed since ....</span>
....<span style="text-decoration: none;">no more than 100 mb/d.3 </span>
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oil dependence causes great power war </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Richard </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Heinberg</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, CORE FACULTY MEMBER AT NEW COLLEGE OF CALIFORNIA, The Party’s Over: Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">2003</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, p. 230</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Today </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">the average US citizenuses five ....but of humanityand most of the biosphere.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The plan provides infinite cheap energy that can completely replace oil and solve global warming- acting now lets us spread the energy globally </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Richard </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Heinberg</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, CORE FACULTY MEMBER AT NEW COLLEGE OF CALIFORNIA, The Party’s Over: Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">2003</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, p. 230</span>
The industrial revolution has been driven for the ....<span style="text-decoration: none;">much healthier and a far more secure society.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contention 3 is Solvency</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">SBSP is technologically feasible and can quickly become operational.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Whitesides ’08</span> (Loretta Hidalgo, Staff Writer for Wired Science. “Researchers Beam ‘Space’ Solar Power in Hawaii”.
http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2008/09/visionary-beams/. September 12, 2008)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The key to our energy future may be ....</span>renewables in combination with space based solar power."

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">One set of SSP satellites solve Earth’s energy needs through 2100</span>**
Schwab, Martin Schwab, Professor of Philosophy....<span style="color: black;">2000, Date accessed June 25, 2011 </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">10 years ago, in 1992, the ....entire human race on Earth through 2100.</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">35</span>

**There are no more technical barriers – solves cost**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Parker et al 2009 (A. M. Rubenchik, J. M. Parker, R. J. Beach, R. M. Yamamoto are employees of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. May 4, 2009. Solar Power Beaming: FromSpace to Earth) </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">https://e-reports-ext.llnl.gov/pdf/372187.pdf</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> PB</span>
<span style="color: black;">In this paper, we will show that </span>....-based solar power concepts from a practical perspective

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Funding isn’t enough - government R&D is key to successful SPS</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">George Friedman,is an American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor, 2011 “The Next Decade: Where We’ve Been and Where We’re Going”,http://books.google.com/books?id=y5plTzPTw8YC&pg=PA235&dq=Space+based+solar+power&hl=en&ei=99cDTq3bHIfEgAfTypSODg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CGAQ6AEwCQ#v=onepage&q=Space%20based%20solar%20power&f=false, Date accessed June 23, 2011</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">At the same time </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">we must prepare for ....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">t-followed by great dreams quietly expressed.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And, the US is key- nobody can compete with NASA’s resources, tech, and knowledge </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Costa 10 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(Rebecca, sociobiologist and expert in emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies, former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc., “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?”, 10-1-10,</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/) OP</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">As China takes the market for solar and ....in this case, America owns the field.</span>

=Negative=