[[toc]]
[[mailto:elouvis@gmail.com|elouvis@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
==Bronx== 

===Plan=== 
The United States federal government should implement a ballistic missile defense system beyond the mesosphere.

===ASATs Advantage=== 
**China is rapidly rising to challenge US space power**
Bruce W. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald</span>**, is a consultant in technology and national security management and is currently senior director to the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States. From 1995 to 1999, he was assistant director for national security at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy as well as senior director for science and technology on the National Security Council staff. Earlier, MacDonald was a professional staff member on the House Armed Services Committee and was national security adviser to Sen. Dale Bumpers (D-AR). He also worked for the State Department as a nuclear weapons expert in the Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, where he led the Interagency START Policy Working Group and served on the U.S. START delegation in Geneva. MacDonald holds a BSE from Princeton in aerospace engineering and two master's degrees from Princeton—one in aerospace engineering and a second in public and international affairs. May 11, 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>**, Testimony before the US-China Economic and Security Review commission on The Implications of China’s Military and Civil Space Programs, United States Institute of space

The Chinese Challenge This hearing is timely, and one of rising urgency.... China also has additional needs, and vulnerabilities.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Failure to act makes arms race inevitable- China and Russia will block us out of space</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_2|[AF2]]] </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman and Cooper 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">(Everett,</span>PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Space is too vast to be controlled. ...</span>Not only does the logic escape us, but also it seems that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">by waiting, the United States is guaranteeing</span> what space weapons opponents fear most: <span style="font-size: 12pt;">a space arms race</span>

**China will inevitably challenge- arms control isn’t an option**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_3|[AF3]]] </span>
**Tellis 07** (Ashley Tellis, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Senior Associate, 8/1/11, “China’s Military Space Strategy,” Survival 49:3, pg 45)

The brute reality of these anti-access ...especially the United States.

**Particularly true in current climate- China’s focusing on counterspace operations**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">News 24</span>** , US worry over China space weapons,<span class="block"> 20</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>**<span class="block">-02-05 18:30 </span>http://www.news24.com/SciTech/News/US-worry-over-China-space-weapons-20110205

Washington - China is developing "counterspace" weapons ... <span style="font-size: 12pt;">China isn't the only country flexing its counterspace muscle. Iran and Ethiopia are, too</span>, he said.

**That makes war over space inevitable- the only question is who will win**
Everett **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman</span>**, Associate Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>.** “The Case for Weapons in Space: a Geopolitical Assessment,” p. SSRN

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The coming war with China will be fought for control of outer space. ... U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 10pt;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 10pt;">and</span> the People’s Republic of <span style="font-size: 10pt;">China are on a collision course for war.</span>

**Plan’s key to deter China- maintaining the Taiwan deterrence equation requires the ability to stop ballistic missiles**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ross 11</span>**[ Ed Ross, ePresident and CEO of EWRoss a company that provides global consulting services, former Principal Director, Security Cooperation Operations Defense Security Cooperation Agency Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense China Brief Volume: 11 Issue: 3 on February 10, 2011]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The PRC military threat to Taiwan has... PRC ballistic-missile strike.</span>

**Space defense systems key to prevent US-Sino conflict over Taiwan – avoids pre-emptive strikes and escalation**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_4|[AF4]]] </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis ’07 </span>**(Ashley Tellis, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Senior Associate, 8/1/11, “China’s Military Space Strategy,” Survival 49:3, pg 63-64)
Above all is the ... even without the added complications of accidents and further misperception.

**War over Taiwan causes extinction**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Cheong 1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> [Ching, BA Economics, Senior Reporter on Chinese Politics for Straight Times, “Will Taiwan Break Away?: The Rise of Taiwanese Nationalism”, p. 5-6]</span>

THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO THE ...<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China puts sovereignty above everything else.</span>

**Taiwan war outweighs- drags in other countries and based on perception**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">O’Hanlon 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[Michael, Adjunct Professor @ John Hopkins and lecturer at Princeton and Bush, “A war like no other: the truth about China's challenge to America”]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">War between China and Taiwan is a distinct possibility</span>. ... a China-Taiwan war.

**Successful rise of challengers empowers other states- guarantees global conflict**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goldstein 07</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span><span class="CardsChar">Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania [Avery Goldstein, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” </span>Journal of Strategic Studies<span class="CardsChar">, Volume </span>30<span class="CardsChar">, Issue </span>4 & 5 <span class="CardsChar">August 2007, pages 639 – 682]</span>

Two closely related, though ...<span class="DebateUnderline">to the possible crossover.19 pg. 647-650</span>

**Plan is the biggest internal link to hegemony—reinforces conventional forces, shores up diplomatic influence and deterrent functions**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_5|[AF5]]] </span>
Everett C. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Dolman**</span> is Associate Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the U.S. Air Force's School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">20**06**</span>, http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/sais_review/v026/26.1dolman.html, SAIS Review 26.1 163-175

There is reasonable historic ...specter of a future American empire.

**And, it gives the US leverage in the international sphere** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_6|[AF6]]] </span>
Forrest E. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan</span>**, Ph.D. in policy studies, University of Maryland; M.A.A.S. in airpower arts and sciences, Senior political scientist @ Rand, 9/15/**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>**, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space”

The United States can raise the thresholds ...<span style="font-size: 12pt;">deny</span> potential<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> adversaries</span> the<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> benefits of</span> attacking in<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> space</span>. (See pp. 44–45.)

Space dominance is the only way to secure sustainability- avoids arms race
Everett **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman</span>**, Associate Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">20**05**</span>. “US Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” [[http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf]]

Opponents of space weapons on technical or ...<span class="DebateUnderline">is less threatening than any other state doing so</span>.

**Hegemony prevents nuclear war and conflict escalation**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_7|**[**AF7]]] </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 6</span>** (Bradley A., Prof of Defense and Strategic Studies @ Missouri State University, “In Defense of Primacy.,” National Interest; Nov/Dec2006 Issue 86, p32-37)

Throughout history, peace and stability ... the interests of the United States.

**Uniquely true for BMD- solves escalation and conflict through dissuasion**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_8|[AF8]]] </span>
Lt. Col. Lorinda **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Frederick</span>,** US Air Force, Planning Officer at STRATCOM, 9-1-<span style="font-size: 12pt;">20**09**</span>, Air University, //Air and Space Power Journal//, “Deterrence and Space-Based Missile Defense,”

BMD should primarily ...rogue elements and proliferators.

**Even if hegemonic decline is inevitable, the plan will set up a smooth transition and prevent great power war**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_9|**[**AF9]]] </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 6</span>**(Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” March 10th, Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=408)

Dolman: Well, I think that...<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to create and enforce some sort of order.</span>

===ICBMs Advantage=== 
**Iran can launch ICBM’s by 2015, causing an EMP wave to erupt over the US**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Foreign Policy Analysis 09**’</span> By an Independent Working Group (Co Chairmen: __Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff__, Jr. Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis __Dr. William R. Van Cleave__ Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University), 2009 Report, [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]], The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis

With the benefit of assistance ...confirmed by Iranian officials. 29

**An EMP attack kills millions and destroys the economy – only space based missile defense solves**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kennedy 08’</span>** By BRIAN T. KENNEDY, WSJ, Mr. Kennedy is president of the Claremont Institute and a member of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense. NOVEMBER 24, 2008, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122748923919852015.html]]
“What a Single Nuclear Warhead Could Do: Why the U.S. needs a space-based missile defense against an EMP attack.”

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">As severe as the global ... soon as possible.</span>

**Any risk of economic deterioration accesses all impacts**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Green & Schrage 9</span>** [Michael J Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. Steven P Schrage is the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee, “It's not just the economy,”March 26 http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html]
Facing the worst economic ... outside of the framework for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.

**And, wars go nuclear**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg & Schoenfeld 8</span>** [Aaron Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School. Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” Wall Street Journal, Ocbtober 21, 2008, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]
With the global financial system in serious trouble, ...disastrous effects of disengagement and the stiff price tag of continued American leadership.

**It’s only a question of relativity- even if rise of the rest is inevitable US leadership is key to making it safe- the alternative is global war and collapse of trade**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_11|[AF11]]] </span>
James <span style="font-size: 12pt;">O'Connor 2008</span> is an American sociologist and economist. He is currently an Emeritus Professor of Sociology and Economics at the University of California , “Economic Rise of the East” November 26, 2008 [[http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/economic-rise-east]]
In its latest report entitled Global ...<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The time to address this is now.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solvency </span>=== 
**Perception of BMD is key to dissuade challengers**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_12|[AF12]]] </span>
Campbell **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Craig</span>**, Prof IR at the Univ. of Southampton, 200**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9</span>**, //Review of International Studies,// Vol. 35, pg. 27-34, “American power preponderance and the nuclear revolution”

As Keir Lieber and Daryl Press ...will be radically diminished

**Space-based NMD is effective, fast, and comparatively better than land based- covers gaps**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_13|[AF13]]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Howard </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kleinberg</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, Prof Public and Intl. Affairs @ UNC Wilmington, April </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">20**11**</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">, “A Global Missile Defense Network: Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,” lexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Nevertheless, all things considered, ... and the Twenty -First Century."</span>

**Countries can’t adapt to plan – boost phase interceptor and technological infeasibility**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_14|[AF14]]] </span>
Lt. Col. Lorinda **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Frederick</span>**, US Air Force, Planning Officer at STRATCOM, 9-1-<span style="font-size: 12pt;">20**09**</span>, Air University, //Air and Space Power Journal//, “Deterrence and Space-Based Missile Defense,”

Potential adversaries may develop ...made towards exploring and developing the potential of SBMD.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layered missile defense is key</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_15|[AF15]]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Foreign Policy Analysis 09**’</span> By an Independent Working Group (Co Chairmen: __Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff__, Jr. Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis __Dr. William R. Van Cleave__ Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University), 2009 Report, [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]], The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space-based</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> Directed-energy (Laser) </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Missile Defense</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> ... scheduled for 2012 has been cancelled</span>.<span style="font-size: 6pt;">29</span>

==2AC== 
Disclosure upon request.

=Negative= 


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]