[[toc]]
=NOTE= 

It's come to my attention that apparently the link to the Lester article is down (having cut the cards back around Thanksgiving, I'm not sure when this happened) - I'll provide full text for the cards and will continue to look for a working link to the article.

=1AC= 


**Contention One is Awareness – impacts first:**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Russia war causes extinction</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Starr 8 – </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">independent writer who has been published by the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists and the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology Center for Arms Control</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">(Steven, “Catastrophic Climatic Consequences of Nuclear Conflict,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://inesap.org/node/11]]</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">The failure of </span>the U.S. and Russia<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;"> to relax their Cold … … now confronting humanity and life on Earth. </span>

**Nuclear terrorism causes extinction – escalation and Russian “dead hand”**
**Morgan, 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct)</span>

In a remarkable website on nuclear war… …<span class="Underline">misery and suffering in a nuclear winter</span>.

**Hegemony based on forward-deployed presence is key to conflict ­__de-escalation__ – the alternative is great-power conflict**
**Thayer 6****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">professor of security studies @ Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)</span>

__A grand strategy based on American primacy … …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. </span>

**And, maintaining hegemony brings comparatively more stability than retrenchment – we’ll inevitably be involved, it’s a question of effectiveness**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Goure 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Daniel, Vice President with the Lexington Institute, “Unsettled World Won’t Let US Reduce Its Military,” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.defpro.com/news/details/20969/?SID=3f7de7dc9a8343394bd7e1cfb97fd429]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, dml) </span>



<span class="styleboldunderline">__<span style="background-color: silver;">The conventional wisdom</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the national security … …</span>//no one else//<span class="styleboldunderline">__<span style="background-color: silver;"> to whom it can turn.</span>__</span>

**Even if collapse is inevitable – accelerating decline crushes the transition to multipolarity – voting aff is key to peace**
Dale C **Walton ‘7**
[Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading in Reading, England, 07, “geopolitics and the great powers in the twenty-first century”, [[@http://books.google.com/books?id=AQLTD1R-47AC&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_navlinks_s#v=onepage&q=&f=false|__http://books.google.com/books?id=AQLTD1R-47AC&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_navlinks_s#v=onepage&q=&f=false__]]]

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Although international political conditions will differ enormously … …</span>__the probability of a great power war.__

**And, maintaining hard power makes multipolarity effective**
**Kupchan 12** – Professor of International Affairs at Georgetown
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Charles, “Grand Strategy: The Four Pillars of the Future”, Democracy Journal Issue 23, Winter 2012, dml)</span>

__The U____nited States__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> of course </span>__must guard__ __… …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> rights, universal education, and economic openness. </span>


**Next the internal links:**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space debris causes miscalculation with Russia – escalates to nuclear war – the plan solves</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lewis, 4</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy (Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This is the second of two scenarios … …allows national nuclear forces to operate safely.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Debris takes out military satellites – key to heg and stopping WMD terrorism</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Imburgia 11</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;"> - Targeting Officer, United States Strategic Command, Offutt Air Force Base, Neb</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">(Lieutenant Colonel Joseph S. April 4 “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law Vol. 44:589)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">These gloomy prognostications about the threats … …</span> states and actors from acquiring or using WMD<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">.”165</span>

**And, the plan’s key to the __credibility__ and __effectiveness__ of forward-deployed troops – that’s key to hegemony**
**Marshall, 8** - NASA Ames Research Center (Will, Astropolitics, 6:154–199, “REDUCING THE VULNERABILITY OF SPACE ASSETS: A MULTITIERED MICROSATELLITE CONSTELLATION ARCHITECTURE,” Ebsco Political Science)

__Space assets are one of the most … …__ topic that could benefit from further research.

**Now we solve –**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Increasing the amount of data available to the AFSCN is key to effective space situational awareness – the status quo is serial policy failure</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Hays et al 6 – </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">engineer at the Scitor Corporation</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">(Byron, with Andrew Carlile and Troy Mitchell, “Visualizing and Integrating AFSCN Utilization into a Common Operational Picture”, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.amostech.com/TechnicalPapers/2006/SSA/Hays.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, dml) ***note: COP=Common Operational Picture**</span>

**<span class="Underline">Currently, </span>AFSCN space situational awareness <span class="Underline">… …enhanced options in the space combat decision cycle. </span>**

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Independently, the plan is key to track satellites – solves situational awareness and missile tracking</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Lester 96 </span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">– Air Force Captain</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">(Michael, “GPS NAVIGATION FOR USE IN ORBITS HIGHER THAN SEMISYNCHRONOUS: A LOOK AT THE POSSIBILITIES AND A PROPOSED FLIGHT EXPERIMENT,” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.smallsat.org/proceedings/10/sess9/lestermd.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, dml)</span>**

<span style="text-decoration: none;">There are several advantages to implementing GPS receivers on geostationary satellites. The major contribution of reducing support loading on the AFSCN ground antennas alone is worthy of implementing this tactic. In addition to reducing ground antenna loading, manning [staffing] in satellite control squadrons can be reduced. Approximately 20-30 persons are employed by each satellite control squadron as orbital analysts. These personnel spend most of their time handing routine orbit and attitude determination functions. This time consuming and laborious task can be eliminated with GPS receiver use. Another advantage of GPS orbit and attitude determination is autonomous geostationary stationkeeping. 15 A stationkeeping box may be defined by mission requirements. The geostationary satellite can then automatically conduct thruster firings to stay within the defined box using GPS measurements. Such operations would allow Air Force Space Command to tell geostationary satellite users the exact location of the satellite months into the future. Accurate orbit determination for the DSP constellation is very important for accurate theater missile defense. The location of these satellites is key to knowing from where the observed infrared source originated. The better you know where the satellite is, the more accurately you can determine where the source observed is. </span>


<span style="text-decoration: none;">Situational awareness in GEO solves space debris – current capabilities aren’t sufficient</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Weeden et al 10 – </span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Technical Advisor for the Secure World Foundation</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">(Brian, with Paul Cefola and Jaganath Sankaran, “GLOBAL SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS SENSORS,” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://209.200.88.159/TechnicalPapers/2010/Integrating_Diverse_Data/Weeden.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, dml)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">Today, the world has changed significantly… …</span> long-term sustainability of Earth orbit.**

Contention Two is Responsiveness – we’ll do impacts first again:

Conventional deterrence solves nuclear conflict
Gerson & Whiteneck 09 **<span style="font-size: 5pt;">– Research analysts @ Center for Naval Analyses, a federally funded research center, where he focuses on deterrence, nuclear strategy, counterproliferation, and arms control [Michael Gerson (M.A. in International Relations from the University of Chicago) & Daniel Whiteneck, “Deterrence and Influence: The Navy's Role in Preventing War,” CNA Analysis and Solutions, March 2009]</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">In the current international security environment… …</span>__can help deter escalation and terminate conflicts.__**

Air power is comparatively the best way to prevent global conflict
Dunlap 6 **– Maj. General, deputy judge advocate of the Air Force, National War College graduate with over 30 years of Armed Forces Experience (Charles Jr., Armed Forces Journal, “America’s Asymmetric Advantage”, http://www.armedforcesjournal.com/2006/09/2009013)**

**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> So where does that leave us… …</span> __very existence of the U.S. is at risk__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>**

War over Taiwan goes global
Hunkovic, **<span style="font-size: 5pt;">American Military University,</span>** 9 **<span style="font-size: 5pt;">[Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">]</span>**

**__A war between China, Taiwan … …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.</span>**

Now the internal links:

First is conventional superiority – PGS solves it and it’s key to deterrence – nukes don’t solve
Kerber & Stein 09 **<span style="font-size: 5pt;">– Co-Chairs of the Defense Science Board [Dr. Ronald Kerber (Visiting Professor at Darden Business School at the University of Virginia and Masters and Doctorate degrees in engineering science from California Institute of Technology) & Dr. Robert Stein (Raytheon's Director of Advanced Programs), “Time Critical Conventional Strike from Strategic Standoff,” Report of the Defense Science Board Task Force, Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, March 2009]</span>**

**__The U.S. strategic deterrence and strike environment … …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> effectively providing national leadership with a prompt global strike option.</span>**



Second is air power – conventional strike capabilities are key to global conflict de-escalation and air supremacy
Carpenter 9
**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Maj. Gen. Carpenter, Commander of 8th Air Force, June 3, 2009, Dept of the Air Force presentation to the Senate Armed Services Committee, Subject: Air Force Strategic Programs, http://armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2009/June/Carpenter%2006-03-09.pdf)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Chairman Nelson, Ranking Member Vitter… …I look forward to your questions. </span>**

Third is Taiwan – PGS is key to deter Chinese invasion of Taiwan without the threat of nuclear use
Sudgen 9 <span style="font-size: 5pt;">– </span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">consultant for the Department of Defense and commercial clients on combating weapons of mass destruction, future global strike force structure alternatives, nuclear policy and strategy </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Bruce, “Speed Kills: Analyzing the Deployment of Conventional Ballistic Missiles”, International Security, Vol. 34, No. 1, dml)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The second rationale for CBMs in an expanded mission … …risk the failure of riding out a strike. </span>**

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Their turns don’t assume conventional PGS – doesn’t cause and actually deters an arms buildup</span>
Sudgen 9 <span style="font-size: 5pt;">– </span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">consultant for the Department of Defense and commercial clients on combating weapons of mass destruction, future global strike force structure alternatives, nuclear policy and strategy </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Bruce, “Speed Kills: Analyzing the Deployment of Conventional Ballistic Missiles”, International Security, Vol. 34, No. 1, dml)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">The answers to the questions posed above have … … </span><span class="Underline">CTM is relatively cost effective</span><span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">. </span>**

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Finally, all risks associated with CGPS are overstated and false – it’s successful in combating terrorism, sustaining deterrence and preventing nuclear war in general</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Friedman 8-19</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Jonah, Research Intern for the Project on Nuclear Issues, CSIS, 8-19-11, The Case for Conventional Prompt Global Strike, [[http://csis.org/blog/case-conventional-prompt-global-strike)DR]]</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">Last week, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency … …</span>due to exaggerated concerns over strategic stability<span class="Underline">.</span>**

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Now we solve and the status quo doesn’t – </span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Freeing up the AFSCN is key to effective operationally responsive space – decreases response time and makes space defense more effective</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Hodges and Woll 8 – </span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">*AFSCN Program Support Manager AND </span>**AFSCN System Engineer
<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">(Len and Ron, “Air Force Satellite Control Network for Operationally Responsive Space,” paper presented at the 6</span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">th</span></span><span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;"> Responsive Space Conference, April-May 2008, dml)</span>

The AFSCN stands ready to support the ORS <span class="Underline">…. … the ORS needs are known and supported. </span>

**And, that’s key to conventional prompt global strike**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Doggrell 6</span>__**—US Air Force General, [Les Doggrell, “Operationally responsive space: a vision for the future of military space” 6/22/2006, http://www.freepatentsonline.com/article/Air-Space-Power-Journal/154818021.html]

<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">Development of responsive space may</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> in turn </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">… …</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> will transform the way we perform traditional space missions.</span>

**But, they can’t get a unique link or turn – the Army just tested a missile that has been framed as part of a PGS program**
**GSN 11/18 –** Global Security Newswire
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(“US Hypersonic “Global Strike” Technology Successfully Tested,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20111118_6864.php]]</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, dml)</span>

__The U.S. Army__ <span style="font-size: 5pt;">on Thursday </span>__carried out a … …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> programmed to travel much farther -- 4,100 miles,</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wired</span>//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">noted.</span>

**However, that doesn’t solve the advantage – lack of intelligence kills CPGS effectiveness**
**Manzo 8** (Vince, Center for Defense Information Research Assistant, “An Examination of the Pentagon’s Prompt Global Strike Program: Rationale, Implementation, and Risks”, Center for Defense Information)

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The Prompt Global Strike (PGS) program aims to enable … …</span>__doubt on the feasibility of__ __the PGS concept.__

**Contention Three is Solvency:**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Air Force Satellite Control Network is currently overstretched – that fails – the plan’s key to ease the burdens and integrate new and better data</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Lester 96 </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">– Air Force Captain</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">(Michael, “GPS NAVIGATION FOR USE IN ORBITS HIGHER THAN SEMISYNCHRONOUS: A LOOK AT THE POSSIBILITIES AND A PROPOSED FLIGHT EXPERIMENT,” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.smallsat.org/proceedings/10/sess9/lestermd.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, dml)</span>

<span class="Underline">Traditional satellite orbit determination requires use of ground stations for several hours. For military programs actual ground station costs are fixed in the total cost of space operations. However, these ground resources are limited. Air Force Space Command, specifically the 50th Space Wing, rely upon the Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN) to control most Department of Defense satellites. There are a total of sixteen AFSCN antennas located at nine ground stations to accomplish command and control functions. Satellite support time on these limited AFSCN resources often requires a juggling act by network controllers to meet all user requests. With larger satellite programs on the horizon, such as the Space Based Infrared System, support time on the AFSCN will continue to increase. An increase in usage will subsequently result in the need for more ground antennas. These antennas will likely need to be established on foreign soil and require constant maintenance and caretaking. This results in increased costs for Air Force Space Command. One significant use of the AFSCN is repetitive ranging measurements required by geostationary orbiting-satellite programs for determining orbit parameters. These satellites include numerous communications satellite constellations as well as the DSP missile defense constellation. Hours of AFSCN antenna time is used for modest orbit determination accuracy. For example, the First Space Operations Squadron schedules approximately 450 minutes each day of AFSCN antenna time solely for DSP orbit determination. This use is necessary to achieve an accuracy of 200-400 meters spherical error probable (50th percentile probable). Collectively, orbit determination for geostationary satellites account for approximately 20 hours of ground station support each day. This equates to 7% of AFSCN time from the antennas capable of supporting these orbits (13 ground antennas). Therefore, a tactic which reduces the load on the present AFSCN ground antennas will result in significant savings. Employing GPS receivers on geostationary satellites will accomplish this task while also increasing orbit determination accuracy. </span>


**Air Force use of commercial GPS tech in geosynchronous orbit solves costs, tech and info gaps, and satellite redundancy**
**Divis 11 –** writer for the Washington View and Inside GNSS
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Dee Ann, “Looming Budget Hurricane Could Swamp the GPS Landscape,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.insidegnss.com/node/2753]]</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Where those satellites would go is also up for discussion… …</span> __changes needed to do multiple launches.__

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Plan: The United States Department of Defense should substantially increase its development of commercial Global Positioning System capabilities on its current and future satellites utilizing the Air Force Satellite Control Network positioned in geostationary orbit.</span>**</span>

=<span style="text-decoration: none;">2AC - Add-ons</span>= 

==<span style="text-decoration: none;">Climate Sats</span>== 


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Space junk threatens critical warming monitoring satellites – that’s try or die for extinction </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dunstan & Szoka, ‘9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – James Dunstan practices space and technology law at Garvey Schubert Barer. Berin Szoka is a Senior Fellow at The Progress & Freedom Foundation, a Director of the Space Frontier Foundation, and member of the FAA’s Commercial Space Transportation Advisory Committee. “Beware Of Space Junk: Global Warming Isn’t the Only Major Environmental Problem,” Tech Liberation Front (TLF), [[http://techliberation.com/2009/12/18/beware-of-space-junk-global-warming-isnt-the-only-major-environmental-problem/]]. </span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As world leaders meet in Copenhagen … … </span><span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">capable of surviving true climatic catastrophes</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>**</span>

=<span style="text-decoration: none;">2AC - Disads</span>= 

==<span style="text-decoration: none;">Politics</span>== 


**No link – plan goes through the DOD – that isn’t perceived**

**Fox, 08** [Popular Science, “The Final Frontier : McCain and Obama Reach Toward the Stars”, [[http://www.popsci.com/scitech/article/2008-10/final-frontier-mccain-and-obama-reach-toward-stars]] ***gender edited**

**__Space__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, what President Kennedy … …</span>__that policy as the Chairman of the Board of NASA.__**



Political capital is irrelevant – doesn’t spill over

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jones</span>__ **20**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">00</span>__ **(Charles Jones, Emeritus Professor of Political Science at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Presidential Studies Quarterly, March, 2000 p.6)**



**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Besides not considering the full range … …</span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">with which the president is most concerned</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**



GPS gets pushed by Homeland Security – means no Obama link – also makes it popular

Divis 11 –** writer for the Washington View and Inside GNSS

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dee Ann, “Homeland Security Steps Up to Protect GPS (But Not from LightSquared),” [[http://www.insidegnss.com/node/2603]], dml)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What is particularly intriguing about </span>__… …efforts DHS has underway to protect GPS.__