[[toc]]
[[mailto:stuartl@greenhill.com|stuartl@greenhill.org]]or for AFF cites [[mailto:streetmonkey209@gmail.com|streetmonkey209@gmail.com]]
=Aff= 
==Guam Adv== 
A withdrawal would lead to a move to Guam, and any evidence otherwise doesn’t assume classified documents and government posturing—
Sakai 10
“Japanese Bureaucrats Hide Decision to Move All US Marines out of Okinawa to Guam”. Tanaka Sakai is an independent researcher who specializes in Japanese National Security. He’s published and this article was also peer-reviewed and approved by Gavan McCormack, Emiritus professor at Australia National University. http://www.dmzhawaii.org/?p=5394
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">After writing an article on Japan-China security arrangements that touched upon Okinawa and the Futenma debacle, I received feedback from readers and became aware that from the end of November 2009 the Mayor of Ginowan City, Iha Yōichi, has been pointing out something that will overturn the commonsense regarding American forces in Japan. </span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">…..</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">is conceivable that it will be taken care of by reducing the number of Marines who relocate to Guam and increasing the number of people returning to the United States. </span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The common sense of the world that “a one-time resolution by the government or the congress can make the US military leave”, which the Japanese have been made to consider impossible, will now be put into practice. There will be an election for the governor of Okinawa in 2010. Many people support a movement to urge Ginowan City Mayor Iha to stand as a candidate. If Mayor Iha becomes governor, Okinawa Prefecture will undoubtedly urge an early removal of American forces from Okinawa that Tokyo cannot ignore. This may lead to Okinawa’s freeing itself from its status as an island of American military bases.</span></span>
The move of Marines to Guam is the lynchpin of the U.S.’s new strategy in Asia—clearing this hurdle ensures that the U.S. is capable of responding to every Asian contingency and deters China 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Caryl 7</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Christian Caryl, “America’s Unsinkable Fleet”, 2-26-2007. Christian Caryl is a Senior Fellow at the Center for International Studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Finalist in the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists Award for Outstanding Investigative Reporting. </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">http://www.newsweek.com/2007/02/25/america-s-unsinkable-fleet.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">For an out-of-the-way spit of land in the West Pacific, Guam has been getting a lot of interesting visitors recently. First came a steady stream of Pentagon bureaucrats and senior U.S. military officers. Then, a few weeks ago, a high-ranking delegation of Japanese officials arrived. And this week the island is set to greet its most illustrious guest yet: U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">If, as many in the region predict, the 21st century ends up belonging to the nations of the Pacific--and conflict in the region rises--Guam will have to get used to being in the headlines</span></span>__</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> </span>
That deters China from being aggressive in the surrounding seas and disrupting the Malaccan Straits-Guam allows us to deter China from disrupting shipping lanes 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Halloran 11</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Richard, “Pacific Push”, January 2011. New York Times Foreign Correspondent</span></span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2011/January%202011/0111pacific.aspx</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> </span></span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-weight: normal;">A force buildup on Guam anchors a broad</span></span>____<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> US <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">military strategy to keep China in check</span></span></span>__</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-weight: normal;">In</span></span>____<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> its strategy to deter China from driving the US out of Asia and the Western Pacific, </span></span>__</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">US </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Pacific Command has</span></span>__</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">plans to move 8,600 marines, plus 9,000 dependents from Okinawa to Guam by 2014, were on track despite dithering by successive governments in Tokyo</span></span>__</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">. (At least, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">that is the official view. </span></span>__</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">Privately, US senior officers have expressed skepticism that the schedule will be maintained.)</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> </span></span>
Checking Chinese expansionism in the East China Sea is critical to open sea lanes, preventing regional arms races, and war
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Spinetta</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> 6</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Major Lawrence, “The Malacca Dilemma-Countering China’s String of Pearls with Land Based Air Power”, </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA476931</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> With regard to Japan, </span></span>____<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">China has made repeated incursions into Japanese territorial waters</span></span>____<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> and the country's economic zones in order to warn its neighbor in unusually blunt terms</span></span>__</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-weight: normal;">Kaplan predicts a future conflict as the Chinese navy increasingly seeks to project power</span></span>__ </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">and control the region’s sea lanes. He warns, “Given the stakes, and given what history teaches us about the conflicts that emerge when great powers all pursue legitimate interests, the result is likely to be the defining military conflict of the twenty-first century: if not a big war with China, then a series of Cold War-style standoffs that stretch out over years and decades.”52 China the opportunity to be a 21st century Middle Kingdom. If Beijing continues to be faced with a countervailing equilibrium that keeps the peace in East Asia, it will probably act prudently.”</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> </span></span>
The risk of escalation is high now-
[[#_Toc267867863]]
[[#_Toc267867864]][[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/china/100625/south-china-sea-paracel-spratly-islands-military|__http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/china/100625/south-china-sea-paracel-spratly-islands-military__]] //ghs-ef)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">TAIPEI, Taiwan — It's a 3.5 million-square kilometer stretch of ocean, speckled with some 200 coral atolls, some submerged or so tiny they hardly deserve to be called islands. Welcome to </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">the South China Sea</span></span>__</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> </span>
__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">that "there are </span></span>____<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">more <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">concerns of an underwater collision </span>than an accidental war" in the South China Sea. </span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">"Many of the countries now deploying su</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">bmarines are not familiar with underwater rules of right of way," Minnick said. "There are clear demarcations for direction and depth that are not being followed by some of the more inexperienced countries. And then there's Chinese submarines roaming around as well. So it's getting crowded underwater."</span>
That draws in major powers and causes world war III
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Waldron ‘97</span>
(Arthur, Prof Strategy and Policy – Naval War College, Commentary, 3-1, http://www.aei.org/publications/pubID.7442,filter.all/pub_detail.asp)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Then there is Southeast Asia, which, having weathered the Vietnam war and a variety of domestic insurgencies</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">could </span></span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">easily <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">draw in neighboring states</span></span></span>__</span>**__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">--Russia</span></span>____<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, or <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">India</span>, or <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Japan</span>--<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">or the</span></span></span>__ __<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-size: 12pt; padding: 0in;">U</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">nited </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-size: 12pt; padding: 0in;">S</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">tates.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> </span>
Territorial Disputes Go Nuclear
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Chakraborty 2k10</span>
(United Service Institution of India“The Initiation & Outlook of ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting (ADMM) Plus Eight,” pg online @ [[http://www.usiofindia.org/Article/?pub=Strategic%20Perspective&pubno=20&ano=739|__http://www.usiofindia.org/Article/?pub=Strategic%20Perspective&pubno=20&ano=739__]] //ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The first ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting Plus Eight (China, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, Russia and the USA) was held on the 12th of October. When this frame work of ADMM Plus Eight came into news for the first time it was seen as a development which could be the initiating step to a much needed security architecture in the Asia Paci</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">These issues serve as bigger flashpoint which can snowball into a major conflict</span></span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;"> which has the possibility of turning into a nuclear conflict</span></span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>
Guam shift makes the Pacific Rim a center for global innovation
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Kent 11</span>
“Hawaii and Guam: Strategic Convergence Zones for the United States Forward Defense Strategy in the Pacific Rim”, March 15th. James A. Kent is a global community analyst with extensive experience with geographic focused social and economic development policy in Pacific Rim countries. He is President of the JKA Group (www.jkagroup.com) which has three enterprises: James Kent Associates, a public policy consulting firm.
http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/journal/docs-temp/710-kent.pdf
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">A Promising Alternative Pacific Rim trends were recently highlighted in the Asian Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Summit in Yokohama, Japan on November 13 and 14, 2010. There is now talk that the APEC forum will be complemented by the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), a proposed free trade zone that now includes Brunei, Singapore, Chile, and New Zealand (all in the Pacific Rim Global Resource Unit displayed above). The United States and Australia, and eventually China, will join this group that intends to eliminate most tariffs and other trade barriers. TPP is seen as a vehicle toward a much wider Pacific Rim treaty. It is very instructive to note what the summit report says: ―Many </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Asian</span></span>__

__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Hawaii</span></span>____<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> with its counterparts in the convergence zones of East Asia will contribute to the security and growth of Trans-Pacific commerce, technology, science, education, and business leadership development.</span></span>__

Water shortages will inevitably trigger global water conflicts 
CSIS 5
9/30/2005. Center for Strategic and International Studies. “Addressing Our Global Water Future,” [[http://water.csis.org/050928_ogwf.pdf|__http://water.csis.org/050928_ogwf.pdf__]]
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Taken together, </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">all of these factors</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">—from the rising imbalance of supply and demand to the devastating effects of water on human prosperity—</span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">point toward a world in which growing water challenges could ignite the underlying economic forces that may lead to conflict and war</span></span>__

__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">hostility between two or more countries—or </span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">regions within a country—possibly leading to greater insecurity or conflict, </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">caused by </span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">one party </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">disrupting the water supply of another</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>
Those go nuclear
<span class="TagsChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">NASCA</span></span> National Association for Scientific & Cultural Appreciation 20<span class="TagsChar2"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">06</span></span> “Water Shortages – Only A Matter Of Time.” 
http://www.nasca.org.uk/Strange_relics_/water/water.html
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Water is one of the prime essentials for life as we know it. </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The plain fact is - no water, no life!</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> This</span>
__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">unresolved there will eventually come the day when we shall find ourselves with a nightmare situation for which there will be no obvious answer.</span></span>__

Collapse of the global water supply causes extinction
Maude <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Barlow</span>, Spring 200<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">1.</span> National Chairperson of the Council of
Canadians and IFG Committee on the Globalization of Water. “BLUE GOLD:
The Global Water Crisis and the Commodification of the World's Water
Supply,” http://www.ratical.org/co-globalize/BlueGold.pdf.
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Perhaps the most devastating analysis of the global water crisis comes from hydrological engineer Michal Kravèík and his team of scientists at the Slovakia non-governmental organization (NGO) People and Water. Kravèík, who has a distinguished career with the Slovak Academy of Sciences, has studied the effect of urbanization, industrial agriculture, deforestation, dam construction, and infrastructure and paving on water systems in Slovakia and surrounding countries and has come up with an alarming finding. Destroying water's natural habitat not only creates </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">a supply crisis</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> for people and animals, it also </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">dramatically diminishes</span></span>__

__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">,</span></span>____<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> melting of the polar icecaps, submersion of vast territories, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">massive</span> continental <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">desertification and,</span> eventually, "<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">global collapse."</span></span></span>__


Fortunately, Guam shift is specifically key to Ocean Thermal Energy Tech-
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Defense News 9</span>
<span style="tab-stops: 206.25pt 207.75pt;">“Electricity from the Sea” 6-1-2009. </span>
http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=4116295&c=FEA&s=TEC
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Heat from the tropical sun warms the ocean surface off Guam to an inviting 80 degrees Fahrenheit. But 3,000 feet below, the ocean remains a bone-chilling 40 degrees. That temperature difference promises to provide the U.S. Navy with a limitless supply of electricity. Good thing, too - </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">the</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> U.S. </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">military plans to move</span></span>__ <span style="font-size: 5pt;">8,000 </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">Marines</span></span>__

__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">it could start a process that within a generation could have ocean thermal energy conversion providing all the electricity Guam -</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> or Hawaii or Diego Garcia - needs, Lockheed officials say.</span>
OTEC solves global water shortages-it produces tons of desalinated water
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Magesh 10</span>
OTEC Technology- A World of Clean Energy and Water, Proceedings of the World Congress on Engineering 2010 Vol II WCE 2010, R. Magesh is with Coastal Energen Pvt. Ltd.
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Scientists all over the world are making predictions about the ill effects of Global warming and its consequences on the mankind. Conventional Fuel Fired Electric Power Stations contribute nearly 21.3% of the Global Green House Gas emission annually. Hence, an alternative for such Power Stations is a must to prevent global warming. One fine alternative that comes to the rescue is the Ocean thermal energy conversion (OTEC) Power Plant, the complete Renewable Energy Power Station for obtaining Cleaner and Greener Power. Even though the concept is simple and old, recently it has gained momentum due to worldwide search for clean continuous energy sources to replace the fossil fuels. The design of a 5 Megawatt OTEC Pre-commercial plant is clearly portrayed to brief the OTEC technical feasibility along with economic consideration studies for installing OTEC across the world. </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">OTEC</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> plant </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">can be seen as a </span></span>____<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">combined Power Plant and</span></span>__

__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">OTEC plant would not involve the wastetreatment or astronomical decommissioning costs of a nuclear facility. Also, it would offset its expense through the sale of the desalinated water</span></span>__

Accelerated innovation key to prevent extinction
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Heaberlin 4 </span>
(Scott W, Nuclear Safety and Technology Applications Product Line @ Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, “A Case for Nuclear-Generated Electricity,” Battelle Press, 2004 *** we don’t endorse the gendered language if any in this card)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Cohen looked at all the various population estimates and concluded that most fell into the range of 4 to 16 billion. Taking the highest value when researchers offered a range, Cohen calculated a high median of 12 billion and taking the lower part of the range a low median of 7.7 billion. The good news in this is 12 billion is twice as many people as we have now. The bad news is that </span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">projections for</span></span></span>__

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">that is kinder to the planet but also allows humans to support large numbers in a high quality of life. That road is not easy and has a number of ways to screw up. However, it is a road that can lead to a happier place, a better place.</span>

=Neg=