===2AC Stuff===

Interesting foreshadowing from the3nr.com last year:

http:www.the3nr.com201001072010-2011-topic-reduce-u-s-militarypolice-presence

"dylan 64 weeks ago
Andor? Are you kidding me?"

Nope.

Our interpretation is that the judge should view the resolution as a possible truth claim. If the aff proves this truth claim we should win. The neg can argue inherency, multiple conditional advocacies or counterfactuals, or other arguments that disprove the entirety of the truth claim.

Zarefsky 76, Professor of Communication at Northwestern University, NDT Champion debater and coach, 76 [David "Argument as Hypothesis Testing." 18p.; Paper presented at the Annual Speech Communication Association Francisco, California, December]

Forensics should offer 1aboratory experience in deve1oping the argumentative perspective on communication. ... hypothesis-testing for the purpose of determining probable truth.

B.  The affirmative must prove military andor police presence must be reduced in at least one of the topic countries. The negative must prove military and police presence should not be reduced in all of the topic countries

1.  "Or" is an inclusive disjunction

Paprzcka 7 ["Logic Self-Taught: A Workbook, Katarzyna Paprzycka, PhD and Philosophy Professor, University of Warsaw, http:kpaprzycka.wdfiles.comlocal--fileslogicW01]

Here is an example of a disjunction... disjunctions and other complex propositions.

2. Andor means "or"

Merriam Websters Dictionary 11 [http:www.merriam-webster.comdictionaryandor, "Definition of ANDOR"

used as a function word to indicate that two words or expressions are to be taken together or individually language comprehension andor production David Crystal


3. DeMorgan's law shows the neg must win offense against reducing presence in ALL of the topic countries, but the aff must only win offense in reducing presence in ONE of those countries

Bookrags 11 ["Demorgan's Laws", http:www.bookrags.comresearchdemorgans-laws-wom] [brackets by STRONG]

Augustus DeMorgan (1806-1871), ... valid reasoning from one proposition to another.

 

2. Activism and academic engagement - they maintain debate as a contrived imaginary policymaking situation - we synthesize debate with academic scholarship

Goodnight and Mitchell 8 [[FORENSICS AS SCHOLARSHIP: TESTING ZAREFSKY'S BOLD HYPOTHESIS IN A DIGITAL AGE, G. Thomas Goodnight and Gordon R. Mitchell, http:www.pitt.edu~gordonmJPubsGoodnightMitchell2008.pdf]

During the heyday of policy debate's "paradigm wars,"... debate community turn this page.

Finally - err aff- neg side bias is outrageous.

Voss 111 [Jon, Jon Voss is the Assistant Director of Debate at Glenbrook South High School (IL) and coach of the 2009-2010 NFL National Policy Debate Champions from Whitney Young Magnet High School, "Negative Bias on the Military Presence Topic: Why It's Still Hard to be Aff", The Rostrum, http:www.nflonline.orguploadsRostrum0111_046_048.pdf]

Elimination rounds, on the other hand, seem ... bridging the gap.