[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**Tech barriers to SPS have been reseolved - all that remains is govermnet inaction.**
Edmonton Journal 6/12/11
[[http://www.edmontonjournal.com/technology/Solar+satallites+green+energy/4933251/story.html//jchen]]
With gas prices...in outer space.

**Now is key -- SPS is inevitable, it's only a question of who gets there first.**
Karen Cramer Shea 2010
[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html]]
The timing would...space solar power.

**SPS averts global conflict and resource wars by removing energy sources from their territorial claims.**
Taylor Dinerman 6/8/2009
[[http://thespacereview.com/article/1389/1]]
In the future...the next decade.

**Solar technology leads to global energy independence-removes the need for foreign oil**
NSS 2007
[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/index.htm]]
The united states...within economic reach.

**Continued oil dependence leads to global instability, terrorism, and economic collapse**
Ron Bengston,2008
[[http://www.amreicanenergyindependence.com/|http://www.amreicanenergyindependence.com]]
A powerful idea..of islamic terrorism.

**The USFG is key to aerospace competition-export controls have weakened the private sector**
ICAF 2007
[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA475093&Location=U2&Doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]
The US government...and technology development

**Initial government funding is key to private industry investment-lowers financial risk**
Daily Tech 10/15/07
[[http://www.dailytech.com/The+Pentagon+Wants+Space+Solar+Power+for+US+Allies/articles/article9275.htm//jchen]]
The plan also...of clean energy

**No risk or space debris-SPS DE-orbits them**
NASA 2007
The technology to...starwisp concept

=Negative= 
===**Space Debris DA**=== 
**Debris at a tipping point – even one collision with space debris can set off a chain reaction, causing satellite malfunction.**
Blake 2011
[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8295546/space-so-full-of-junk-that%20-a-satellite-collision-could-destroy-communications-on-Earth.html|http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8295546/space-so-full-of-junk-that -a-satellite-collision-could-destroy-communications-on-Earth.html]]
The volume of...International Space Station.

**Space missions cause dangerous space debris that damages satellites**
Pasco 2006
[[http://mail.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/pasco]]
More than 9,000...to debris production.

**Working satellites are key to almost every aspect of maintaining hard power**
Covault 2011
[[http://www.militaryaerospace.com/index/display/avi-wire-news-display/134901919.html]]
China may have...defend their own.

**Hegemony key to solving nuclear war.**
Khalizad 1995
A wolrd in...global nucleaer exchange.
----
<span style="font-size: 19px;">Spending DA</span>
----
**Economic growth is shaky but will stabilize-fiscal discipline is the biggest risk for collapse**
Blinder 3-31-11
[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704308904576226570362791958.html?mod+googlenews_wsj]]
If youre searching…60-40 bets leave.

**space programs cause huge deficit spending**
hsu 2009
[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]]
There are limited…be mutually supported.

**continued deficit spending collapses the economy**
phil roe 2011
[[http://washingtonpost.com/federal-eye/2010/05navy_plebes_hendron_monu.html]]
On Monday,the…the long-term.

**US econs key to the global economy**
Harris &burrows 2009
[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]
Such was the…been severely buffeted.

**Global economic crisis causes great-power nuclear war**
Mead 2009
[[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]
If current market…have to fight.
----
**Capitalism k**
----
**Capitalism's contant need for expansion drives space exploration and development**
Dickens 2010
[[http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end]]
Instead of indulging..at this point.

**Capitalism necessitates nuclear war and is the rootof the aff's impacts**
Webb 2004
[[http://www.pww.org/article/view/4967/1/207/O/]]
Capitalism was never...of political struggle.

**Our alternative is to reject the aff and establish an oppositional society againsty the oppresssive system of capital**
Herod 2004
[[http://www.jamesherod.info/Getting_Free.pdf]]
It is time...even to extinction.

**Capitalism causes extinction**
Cook 2006
[[http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/08935690600748173]]
In the passage...on the planet.