[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**Far away from planet earth there are two planets called Annares and Urras. Urras is dominated by the nation of A-IO which supports its propertied capitalist class and oppressive state on the backs of the unpropertied class and impoverished nation. 200 years ago there was a revolution on Urras led by Odo who rejected this society. The Odonians left Urras and established a communal anarchist society on Annares that remains intact today.**
**Annarasti society consists of diverse individuals who associate with one another on the basis of mutual respect. However, Life on Annarres is not perfect; there are increasing social norms and beaurocratic control.**

**This is the setting of Ursula K. Leguin’s novel The Dispossessed. In her narrative a physicist named Shevek becomes disenchanted with the stifling normalization of Annarres and travels to Urras. He soon becomes disgusted with Urras’ oppressive society and contacts the revolutionary movement that is fighting the elite capitalist state. Shevek’s presence as a symbol of utopian potential is the catalyst for the beginning of a revolution in A-IO. He returns home with the hope that he can open up communication between Urras and Annares to combat the normalization of Annarres by reminding them of their revolutionary ideals and give the dispossessed on Urras the hope of Annarasti Utopia. The novel ends with the beginning of a new story. Ketho, a space pilot from a different world, travels to Annares to join in their revolutionary politics.**
**We tell this story to provide a different narrative of humanity’s future than status quo narratives of U.S. expansionism. We provide both a criticism of late capitalism on Urras as well as ideological stagnation and normalization on Annarres.**
**We therefore advocate the ideals and narrative of the Dispossessed as a vision for exploring and developing space.**
**We offer this advocacy not as a literal policy option but instead as a utopian narrative to inform the direction of humanity and support struggles against the forces of oppression inherent in our world.**


===**Contention 1- Imperial Futurism**=== 


**America projects the dream of its future into space, making it the perfect place for utopian speculation to change our future.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kilgore 03</span> De Witt Douglas Kilgore, <span class="st">is an Associate Professor of English and American and Cultural Studies at Indiana University,</span> Astrofuturism: science race and visions of utopian in space, 2003, pg 1-2
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">This book is an investigation of the ideals and conflicts evident in America's ... </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">that characterize America's dream of its future. </span>



**Capitalism and imperialism are sustained through science fiction, the R and D arm of the predictions industry. A bright future is produced for the west while the predictions for the oppressed are dystopic. This relegates the disempowered to the past and draws society toward their implementation.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eshun 03</span> K O DWO E S H U N, writer, theorist and film-maker course leader of the MA in Aural and Visual Cultures at Goldsmiths College, University of London. Further Considerations on Afrofuturism, 2003, http://idh4000morefiles.pbworks.com/f/Eshun.pdf

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Fast forward to the early twenty-first century... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">discourse that aspires to unchallengeable certainty.</span>



T**he result is a death drive: the destruction of that which is holding back humanity, made possible by the belief that there are no alternatives to the current system and culminates in extinction.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SANTOS 03</span> Boaventura de Sousa Santos, is Professor of Sociology at the School of Economics, University of Coimbra (Portugal), April 2003, http://bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">According to Franz Hinkelammert, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">the West has repeatedly... </span>and liberty turns into a machine of horror and destruction.




**Le Guin’s Dispossessed disrupts this futurist narrative of power through the creation of heterotopias; spaces that provide for the coexistence and freedom of the disempowered instead of the static technocratic dreams of power.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kilgore 03</span> De Witt Douglas Kilgore, <span class="st">is an Associate Professor of English and American and Cultural Studies at Indiana University,</span> Astrofuturism: science race and visions of utopian in space, 2003, pg 226-227


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Tyson's criticisms and hopes are echoed by many fellow travellers.... c</span>apitalists, but as active developers of new worlds.



**Since space colonization does not exist in actuality it is defined by cultural imagination. It is possible for ordinary people like debaters to reconstruct space as a liberatory space to escape the oppression of earth.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lupro 09</span>(Michael Mooradian Lupro, teaches in University Studies at North Carolina A&T State Universityand has done extensive doctoral work on space tourism, SPACE ODDITIES FOR THE AGE OF SPACE TOURISM 2009)


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The existing discursive construction of space...cares to participate in its construction.</span>


=== === 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 2- Temporal Politics</span>=== 


**Modernity views time as a march of progress that is more important than anything else. In the service of this our societies have systematized everything from politics to the environment. This destroys the possibility of change by making individuals into cogs in the machine of progress with no initiative or responsibility.**



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith 05</span> Mick Smith, is an Associate Professor in the School of Environmental Studies and Department of Philosophy at Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, Ecological Citizenship and Ethical Responsibility: Arendt, Benjamin and Political Activism, from Environments: a journal of interdisciplinary studies, Vol 33, No 3 (2005)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">This now describes the situation faced by those who struggle ... </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">“economy of waste”, and a consumer culture operating “at the expense of the world we live in” </span>





**The conception of time as an inevitable linear march of history creates wars and destroys the possibility of any political action or change.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith 05</span> Mick Smith, is an Associate Professor in the School of Environmental Studies and Department of Philosophy at Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, Ecological Citizenship and Ethical Responsibility: Arendt, Benjamin and Political Activism, from Environments: a journal of interdisciplinary studies, Vol 33, No 3 (2005)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">In one of his earliest published pieces, written just before the internationally ... </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">who are led to believe that they are powerless to act, that is, to initiate political change.</span>




**We advocate Anarres as the direction of our future to create a vision of politics that is free from the determinism of progress. Ketho goes to Annares through his own initiative, creating his own political beginning in time. The Dispossessed can open space for Utopian dreams that are truly something new and are not caught up in the time of historical progress.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rigby 05</span>, Ellen M. Rigsby, is an Assistant Professor of Rhetoric in the Communication Department of St. Mary's College of California, Time and the Political Animal, from The New Utopian Politics of Ursula K. Le Guin’s The Dispossessed, 9/12/05 Pg 177-178


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Bittner equates Urras’s denial of the future with Anarres’s denial of the past, concluding that ... </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">It opens the possibility of begetting something new.</span>


**We read The Dispossessed in this round to begin fighting the dominant narrative of space exploration. Le Guin’s Utopia allows a critical perspective on the status quo. Its utopian possibilities force the reader to widen her perspectives on the present and move toward revolutionary change.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DAVIS 05</span> Laurence Davis, holds a doctoral degree in politics from Oxford University, and has taught political theory at Oxford University and University College Dublin, The Dynamic and Revolutionary Utopia of Ursula K. Le Guin, from The New Utopian Politics of Ursula K. Le Guin’s The Dispossessed, 9/12/05 Pg 22-25 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">In both cases, Le Guin frames the narrative in terms of the metaphor of speech...</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">whenever and wherever it raises its ugly head.</span>




=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]