[[toc]]
Email us, we'll respond, hopefully promptly.
[[mailto:mc1101@gmail.com|mc1101@gmail.com]] or [[mailto:tvtrieu2012@gmail.com|tvtrieu2012@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==**HoFlo 1AC**== 

=Plan Text= 

**THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE ITS DEVELOPMENT OF EARTH OBSERVATION SYSTEMS BEYOND THE EARTH’S MESOSPHERE.**

=Warming Advantage= 
**Contention one is warming:**
**It is real, anthropogenic, and based on fundamental scientific understanding.**
**Braganza 6/14** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, AM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In public discussions of climate … </span>__rapid future warming is irrefutable__

**Media skepticism and denier research should be rejected—they are paid off and don’t write in peer reviewed scientific journals. A consensus of climate scientists side with the aff.**
**Lewandowsky and Ashley 6/24** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Stephan, Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Astrophysics at the University of New South Wales, “The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Certainty in science </span>__If you …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">thoroughly failed the Australian public.</span>

Warming kills the boreal forests
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Greenpeace 1998</span> [http://archive.greenpeace.org/climate/arctic99/html/content/factsheets/oldreports/forests.html]
<span style="text-align: justify;">__The Most Vulnerable Forest There … 65 percent loss of boreal forests.__ </span>

Extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NRCC, 2004</span> Natural Resources Conservation Council [NRDC. Nation’s most effective environmental action group. Articles written by 300 lawyers, scientists and policy experts. Dec. http://www.nrdc.org/land/forests/boreal/intro.asp]
<span style="text-align: justify;">__Like the Amazon, the boreal …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and trapping for their livelihoods.</span></span>

Climate change sparks wars in Central Asia
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Epiney et al 2007</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, [Dr. Astrid, professor for international law, european law and swiss public law, director at the Institute for European Law, Université de Fribourg (Switzerland); Prof. Dr. Nina Buchmann, professor of Grassland Science, Institute of Plant Sciences, ETH Zurich (Switzerland); Dr. Rainer Grießhammer, member of the management board of the Institute of Applied Ecology, Freiburg and director of the future heritage foundation (Stiftung Zukunftserbe); Prof. Dr. Margareta Kulessa, professor of International Economics, University of Applied Sciences, Mainz; Prof. Dr. Dirk Messner, director of the German Development Institute, Bonn; Prof. Dr. Stefan Rahmstorf, professor of Physics of the Oceans, Potsdam University and head of the Climate System department at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research; Prof. Dr. Hans Joachim Schellnhuber CBE (vice chair), director of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research and visiting professor at Oxford University (physics department and Christ Church College); Prof. Dr. Jürgen Schmid, president of the Institute for Solar Energy Technology and professor at the University of Kassel, Head of the department for efficient energy conversion; Prof. Dr. Renate Schubert (chair), professor for economics at the Swiss Federal Institute for Technology and director of the Institute for Environmental Decisions, ETH Zurich (Switzerland), German Advisory Council on Global Change, “Climate Change as a Security Risk,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wbgu.de/wbgu_jg2007_engl.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">]</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__Central Asia is an area__ **__…__** <span style="font-size: 8px;">the most densely populated part </span></span>

Global nuclear war

Blank 1998, MacArthur Professor of Research at the Strategic Studies Institute of the US Army War College [Stephen, Jane’s Intelligence Review, May 1]
Many of the conditions for … <span class="UnderliningCharChar">**__here__**</span> than almost everywhere else<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
**Warming causes disease, destroys biodiversity, and independently causes extinction—outweighs their impacts.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Deibel 7 – </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Professor of IR Terry, Prof IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Finally, there is one major … of life on this planet</span>

**We’re inherent – new satellite non uniques your DA**
<span class="Underline">**Scientific American 11/17,**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> “Weather Data Gap Now Appears Certain:</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">NOAA says the gap will begin in late 2016 and last from 12 to 18 months, depending on how long it takes to complete quality-control checks on a new satellite”, John J. Fialka and ClimateWire | November 17, 2011, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=weather-data-gap-now-appears-certain</span>
NOAA received<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> just $382 million for … </span><span class="Underline">years of setbacks,"</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Zinser said. </span>



=Cooperation Advantage= 
**Contention two is soft power:**

<span class="Underline">**Obama’s State of the Union address offers a unique window to show leadership on climate change**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Baker 1/25** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Nathanael Baker is the Managing Editor of EnergyBoom, “SOTU 2012: Obama Stands Tall on Energy, But is it Enough?”, http://www.energyboom.com/policy/obama] </span>

Addressing the nation last night<span class="Underline">,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> … the challenge of the now? </span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan solves this by boosting US credibility and soft power**</span>
**Wigbels, et al ’08,**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Lyn Wigbels, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">G. Ryan Faith, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS., </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and Vincent Sabathier, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> a senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">CSIS “EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE” 7/14/08, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080725_wigbels_earthobservation_web.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Global change presents a stewardship challenge … multilateral discussions</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> on Earth observations. </span>__

**<span style="color: #000000;">Terrorists will attack by 2013</span>**

<span style="color: #000000;"> **Hall, 10** (Mimi, USA Today, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, 4/12, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">WASHINGTON — President Obama is asking … </span><span style="color: #000000;">used in a terrorist attack" by 2013</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**Soft power solves terrorism**
**Hammond 9/7** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Andrew Hammond, Senior Correspondent, Reuters, “The “missing battle” of 9/11”, http://blogs.reuters.com/great-debate/2011/09/07/the-missing-battle-of-911/] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Almost 10 years after 9/11, </span>__the United …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">of troops in Afghanistan from 2011-13. </span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">Terror attack causes nuclear war</span>**

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Ayson 10</span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand, Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies. “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects. Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July 2010, pages 571-593)</span>
__<span style="color: #000000;">Washington's early response to a terrorist nuclear attack...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide</span>


**Soft Power Solves US/Japan Alliance** 
**Nye ’04,** Soft power is key to maintaining a stable US-Japan Alliance Joseph S. Nye, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations at Harvard, Summer 20 04 , “SoftPower and American Foreign Policy,” Political Science Quarterly, Vol. 119, Iss.2; pg. 255, proquest
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In the global information age, </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">."18 Popularity can contribute to stability. </span>

<span class="Underline">**US Japan relations key to Asia security,**</span>
<span class="Underline">**ANN 11** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">( Asian News Network- 7/1/2011- </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.asianewsnet.net/home/news.php?id=16618&sec=3]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
__The Japan-US alliance is now confronted with__ **…**  the alliance between Japan and the United States.

**East Asian instability leads to World War III**

**Knight Ridder in ‘00**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jonathon S. Landay, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts”, 3-11, L/N)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Few if any experts think … </span><span class="TitleChar">are elements for potential disaster."</span>

**Soft power & perception is key to effective leadership – builds alliances, checks counter-balancing, maintains domestic support – multilateral co-op is the best internal link to solving terrorism**

**Jervis 09** (professor of international politics at Columbia University. (Robert, Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009)
__To say that the system … that its leadership is benign.__



=Solvency= 
**Contention 3 is solvency**

**We solve for a lot of reasons:**
<span class="Underline">**First is data—monitoring is a prerequisite to any effective warming regime—it allows for critical data sets and ensures compliance.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lewis et. al 10**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">There is still a great deal … </span><span class="Underline">effectively respond to the climate.</span>

**2nd is international efforts—the plan paves the way for an international climate regime centered around US leadership.**
<span class="Underline">**Lewis et. al 10**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Climate change will have pervasive … </span><span class="Underline">current capability shortfall is eliminated. </span>

<span class="Underline">**3rd US action is key and it solves**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Neil 2006**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Ross M. Neil, Policy Advisor, Intergovernmental and International Affairs Division. Environment Canada, Pacific and Yukon Region, Canada, “Space Technologies for Global Environmental Governance: Transitions in Thinking, Diffusions of Power”, in “Global Cooperation: challenges and opportunities in the 21st century”, Sai Felicia Krishna-Hensel, ed., pp. 47-50]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Space-based environmental monitoring is … </span><span class="Underline">**accepted uses of outer space.** </span>

**4th Plan makes adaptation possible**
**Dysart ’11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Mary D.- Air War College (Air War College, Air University, “Remote Sensing and Mass Migration Policy Development”, February 16, 2011)]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Many indicators that mass migration … starvation that promotes mass migration.</span>


<span class="Underline">**5th NASA key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Navalgund and Singh 2010**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Ranganath R. Navalgund+ and Raghavendra P. Singh, Space Applications Centre, “SPACE OBSERVATION FOR CLIMATE CHANGE STUDIES”, ISPRS Archives XXXVIII-8/W3 Workshop Proceedings: Impact of Climate Change on Agriculture, http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXVIII/8-W3/0_Invited-1/1-RRN.pdf] </span>

The ESSP of NASA addresses … we need regarding climate change


**Only federal action solves**
<span class="Underline">**Lewis et. al 10**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The need for information has … can provide important climate data. </span>



==**Niles 1AC**== 

**Contention one is warming:**
**It is real and anthropogenic, and based on fundamental scientific understanding.**
**Braganza 6/14** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, AM)</span>

In public discussions of climate change… __future warming is irrefutable__


**Media skepticism and denier research should be rejected—they are paid off and don’t write in peer reviewed scientific journals. A consensus of climate scientists side with the aff.**
**Lewandowsky and Ashley 6/24** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Stephan, Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Astrophysics at the University of New South Wales, “The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
Certainty in science… failed the Australian public.

**An overwhelming scientific consensus says it is anthropogenic.**
**Plumer 8/23**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Brad Plumer, associate editor at The New Republic and writer at the New York Times, “Despite Rick Perry, consensus on climate change keeps strengthening”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/despite-rick-perry-consensus-on-climate-change-keeps-strengthening/2011/08/23/gIQAMT3UZJ_blog.html] </span>
It’s not a tricky argument to dismiss… __not as bad as previously expected.’__

**Warming triggers disease spread, destroys biodiversity, and independently causes extincton—it’s the only existential risk.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Deibel 7 – </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Professor of IR Terry, Prof IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today</span>
<span class="Underline">Finally, there is one major existential threat to American… life on this planet</span>

**Disease causes extinction**

**Yu 2009**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [5/22, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, "Human extinction: the uncertainty of our fate", [[http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]]]</span>
A pandemic will kill off all humans…into a human-viable strain


**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Loss of ocean biodiversity causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Craig, 03-</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Professor of Law at the Indiana University School of Law, (Robin Kundis, “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii,” //McGeorge Law Review// (34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155), Winter, Available Online via Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)</span>
Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments…the Black Sea is not necessarily unique


**and, environmental monitoring systems are collapsing now—satellites must be replaced.**
**Parthemore and Rogers, 8/1** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">— *Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security **has authored a range of publications on energy, climate change, environmental cooperation Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), B.A. in Political Science-International Relations from the University of California, San Diego [Christine Parthemore and Will Rogers “Blinded: the Decline of U.S. Earth Monitoring Capabilities and Its Consequences for National Security,” 8/1/2011,** </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.cnas.org/node/6715</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, NL]</span>**
**Networks of satellites…environmental data collection capabilities**


We solve for three reasons:
<span style="text-decoration: none;">First is data—monitoring is a prerequisite to any effective warming regime—it allows for critical data sets and ensures compliance.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Lewis et. al 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Several recent studies identified…effectively respond to the climate</span>**


<span style="text-decoration: none;">Greenhouse gas reductions are inevitable but aren’t effective</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Kiefer 9/21</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> [Dale Kiefer, experienced science writer with a background in biological sciences, “CO2 emissions rising sharply despite cutbacks among industrialised nations”, http://www.earthtimes.org/pollution/co2-emissions-rising-sharply-cutbacks-industrialised-nations/1396/] </span>**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">CO2 emissions rose by 45…improving energy efficiency</span>**


Second is political action— monitoring is key to national climate policy.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Lewis et. al 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">On a national level…that we currently collect</span>**


Third is international efforts—the plan paves the way for an international climate regime centered around US leadership.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Lewis et. al 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Climate change will have pervasive…capability shortfall is eliminated</span>**

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Warming leads to water scarcity</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Blockstein and Wiegman 10</span>.**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">David E. Blockstein is a Senior Scientist with the National Council for Science and the Environmen, PhD in Ecology from the University of Minnesota. Leo Wiegman, Mayor at Croton-on-Hudson. “The Climate Solutions Consensus: What we Know and What To Do About It” Island Press, 2010. </span>**
**<span class="Underline">Water Resource Scarcity…depending on them as natural dams</span>**


Water Wars go nuclear
NASCA 06**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (National Association for Scientific & Cultural Appreciation “Water Shortages – Only A Matter Of Time.” [[http://www.nasca.org.uk/Strange_relics_/water/water.html]])</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Water is one of the prime essentials for life </span>…will be no obvious answer.**


Contention two is soft power:

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Specific international cooperation over warming will fail due to Obama’s lack of leadership.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">New York Times 6/22</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [John M. Broder, June 22, 2011, “Gore Criticizes Obama for Record on Climate”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/23/science/earth/23gore.html]]]</span>**
**Former Vice President Al <span class="underline0">Gore sharply criticized…</span> civilization as we know it**



<span style="text-decoration: none;">The plan rectifies this problem by boosting Obama’s credibility and increasing soft power</span>
Wigbels, et al ’08,**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Lyn Wigbels, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">G. Ryan Faith, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS., </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and Vincent Sabathier, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was a senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">CSIS “EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE” 7/14/08, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080725_wigbels_earthobservation_web.pdf]]</span>**
**Global change presents a stewardship… discussions on Earth observations**


Soft power allows the U.S. to combat Iranian proliferation
Chubin, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Shahram Chubin is a nonresident senior associate in the Carnegie Nuclear Policy Program. Based in Geneva, Chubin’s research focuses on nonproliferation, terrorism, and Middle East security issues, “A Grand Bargain with Iran”, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2011/03/23/grand-bargain-with-iran/2tp] </span>**
**If strategy is the alignment…continual crises abroad.**


Iran will nuclearize in a few months
Schmitt 8/23**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Gary Schmitt is the director of the Program on Advanced Strategic Studies at AEI and the director of AEI's program on American citizenship. “Iran: Closer to Nuclear Weapons than Most Assume?”, http://blog.american.com/2011/08/iran-much-closer-to-nuclear-weapons-than-most-assume/] </span>**
**While the news of the day…Iran’s uranium enrichment efforts.”**


That causes proliferation which ends in nuclear war.
Wimbush, 2007 **<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">[S. Enders, senior fellow at Hudson Institute and director of its Center for Future Security Strategies, “The End of Deterrence: A nuclear Iran will change everything”, 1-11, http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/013/154auoqp.asp?pg=1] </span>**
**<span class="Heading4Char1">Iran is fast building its position…</span>once broken, cannot be restored<span class="Heading4Char1">.</span>**

Soft power is able to prevent all conflict – laundry list of reasons
Jervis 09 **<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(professor of international politics at Columbia University. (Robert, Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009)</span>**
**To say that the system…that its leadership is benign.**


THUS THE PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE ITS DEVELOPMENT OF EARTH OBSERVATION SYSTEMS BEYOND THE EARTH’S MESOSPHERE.

Contention 3 is solvency
Only federal action solves
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Lewis et. al 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The need for information has never…important climate data</span>**



Historically, privatization fails
Wigbels et. al, 08 **<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Lyn Wigbels, G. Ryan Faith, and Vincent Sabathier ‘8 CSIS “EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE” 7/14/08</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Vincent G. Sabathier is a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. Ryan Faith is program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS. Lyn Wigbels is a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program. </span>**
**There are many effective public-private…the private and public sector needs.**



==New Trier Cards== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We took some cards out but structure was still the same </span>


<span class="Underline">**Even though there will be a new launch data will still be insufficient**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Perera 10/10**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [ David Perera is senior editor of the FierceMarkets Government Group, “ Degraded weather forecasts a certainty in 2017, says Commerce IG”, http://www.fiercegovernmentit.com/story/degraded-weather-forecasts-certainty-2017-says-commerce-ig/2011-10-10]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">A gap in polar-satellite earth observation satellites</span>....<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">operationally configured versions of ground system software</span>


**The US can’t act unilaterally. Soft power works and is key to solving international problems**

Joseph **Nye,** professor of international relations at Harvard University, 200**8** or later (n.d.) <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(“American Power After the Financial Crises,” </span>[[http://www.foresightproject.net/publications/articles/article.asp?p=3533|http://www.foresightproject.net/publications/articles/article.asp?p=3533)]]

__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Power always depends on context,</span>__....__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">achieve its aims without the help of others</span>__

<span class="Underline">**US action is key and it solves**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Neil 2006**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Ross M. Neil, Policy Advisor, Intergovernmental and International Affairs Division. Environment Canada, Pacific and Yukon Region, Canada, “Space Technologies for Global Environmental Governance: Transitions in Thinking, Diffusions of Power”, in “Global Cooperation: challenges and opportunities in the 21st century”, Sai Felicia Krishna-Hensel, ed., pp. 47-50]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Space-based environmental monitoring</span>....<span class="Underline">**the future accepted uses of outer space.** </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Soft power and cooperation is the only way to solve long term terrorism and prevent acquisition of dangerous weapons </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nye 04</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Harvard University Distinguished Service Professor, and is also the Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations,Joseph, “American power in the 21st Century” pg. 114-15)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">And </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the standing of the US plummeted in Islamic countries....</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">US policies can and does influence their degree of cooperation.</span>__**

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Terror attack causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Ayson 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand, Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies. “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects. Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July 2010, pages 571-593)</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Washington's early response to a terrorist nuclear attack...</span>__latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide.

==Caucus Card== 

**Plan makes adaptation possible**
**NRC 09**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC ADVICE ON THE U.S. CLIMATE CHANGE SCIENCE PROGRAM, VEERABHADRAN RAMANATHAN, Chair, is a distinguished professor of atmospheric and climate sciences at Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego. He received his Ph.D. in planetary atmospheres from the State University of New York, Stony Brook. Dr. Ramanathan’s research focuses on global climate dynamics, the greenhouse effect, air pollution, and climate mitigation. “Restructuring Federal Climate Research to Meet the Challenges of Climate Change”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12595] </span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">A new generation of integrated dynamic Earth system models</span>__... __agricultural monitoring also warrant further investigation.__


==UMich Card== 

<span class="Underline">**NASA key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Navalgund and Singh 2010**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Ranganath R. Navalgund+ and Raghavendra P. Singh, Space Applications Centre, “SPACE OBSERVATION FOR CLIMATE CHANGE STUDIES”, ISPRS Archives XXXVIII-8/W3 Workshop Proceedings: Impact of Climate Change on Agriculture, http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXVIII/8-W3/0_Invited-1/1-RRN.pdf] </span>

The ESSP of NASA addresses … <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">an equatorial altitude of approximately 705 km. </span>


==2ACs== 

===Plan popular=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Plan’s popular- congressional support of environmental satellites is high</span>**
**Stromberg, 11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(6/29/11, Stephen, Washington Post, “Don’t gut the Weather Service: Obama warns against cutting too much”, </span><span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/post-partisan/post/obama-warns-against-cutting-smart-government-spending/2011/06/29/AGpQPyqH_blog.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">At a <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/obama-likely-to-focus-on-economy-at-press-conference/2011/06/29/AGfTAhqH_story.html|White House press conference on Wednesday]]</span>,</span>...<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Every dollar we don't spend now will cost $3 later on, Lubchenco warned.</span>

**Plan’s popular- environmental protection efforts**
**Brinton, 6/20**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">/11 (Turner, Space News, “After Tornado Spate, Fourteen U.S Senators Call for JPSS Funding”, </span><span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.spacenews.com/policy/110620-fourteen-senators-call-jpss-funding.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">WASHINGTON — </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">A group of 14 U.S. senators</span>__... <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">for a specific amount of funding.</span>


===Heidegger=== 


**Ontology focus fails. Doesn’t change material suffering our aff does**
**.** <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">David </span><span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Owen,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 200</span><span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">2</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> p. 655-7</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ … </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">so a potentially vicious circle arises.</span>

**The pressing environmental crisis justifies our ontology**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Langer 03</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Monika, Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Victoria, Eco-phenomenology : back to the earth itself, p. 117-8)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Finally, </span>__environmentalism can draw attention … dialogue between these two endeavors__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**Extinction outweighs it’s a pre requisite to ontological examination (card optional)**
**Maccauley 96** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (David Macauley</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Minding Nature: The philosophers of ecology, 1996 p. 74)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">We may approach the issue … </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">own **extinction** in nuclear war!</span>

**Perm is possible Action and reflection on consequences of that action are compatible.**
Padrutt, 92<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Psychiatrist and President of … , “Heidegger and Ecology,” ed. LaDelle McWhorter, P.31)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Once in a while the conceptual … worldview </span>– that also has consequences<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**Science allows us to check the religious right**
Harris 4 Sam, Co-Founder and CEO of <span style="color: #000000;">Project Reason</span>, a nonprofit foundation devoted to spreading scientific knowledge and secular values in society. He received a degree in philosophy from Stanford University and a Ph.D. in neuroscience from //The End of Faith//, p. 19-20 RB
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Religious moderation springs from the fact</span>__... __<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">mystics than they now are to astronomers</span>__


**Ignoring evidence allows religion to create major war- this results in extinction**
Harris 4 Sam, Co-Founder and CEO of <span style="color: #000000;">Project Reason</span>, a nonprofit foundation devoted to spreading scientific knowledge and secular values in society. He received a degree in philosophy from Stanford University and a Ph.D. in neuroscience from //The End of Faith//, p. 25-26 RB
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Our world is fast succumbing to the activities</span>__... __<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the most prolific source of violence in our history?</span>__


**Solving environmental problems is a prerequisite to ontological reflection**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Wapner ‘3</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Paul, Associate professor and director of the Global Environmental Policy Program at American University, DISSENT, Winter, http://www.dissentmgazine.org/menutest/artiles/wi03/wapner.htm</span>
The third response to eco-… some fashion, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">of environmental preservation</span>__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>__


**Maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional ontological equity turns the k**
**Cummiskey, 1996** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(David, Associate Philosophy Professor … </span>__sacrifice some to save many__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**The alternative fails we cannot change our technological ontology.**
**Riis 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—Carlsberg Research Fellow and Assistant Professor of Philosophy and Science Studies at Roskilde University, Ph.D. from Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg (Søren, 8 February 2011, “Towards the origin of modern technology: reconfiguring Martin Heidegger’s thinking,” RBatra)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Moreover, Heidegger maintains: ‘‘Readiness-to-hand … </span>__revise our very human existence.__


===**ESA**=== 

<span class="Underline">**Delays and budget cuts now – they will chop the plan from the budget and increased spending will collapse the EU economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Clark 10**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Stephen Clark, “ESA needs to 'tighten the belt' amid budget crisis”, [[http://spaceflightnow.com/n]]ews/n1006/08esaspending/] </span>

The E<span class="Underline">uropean </span>S<span class="Underline">pace </span>A<span class="Underline">gency's </span>spending … <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">about 25 percent of its funding.</span>



EU economy k2 global econ
Dur ‘8 “The EU in the World Economy” Andreas Dür School of Politics and International Relations University College Dublin Manfred Elsig World Trade Institute Bern
Ever since its creation, __<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> … </span>__within the EU as to tackling market imbalances.

<span class="Underline">**They’re technologically behind – can’t do the plan**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nardon 4**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Laurence, Research fellow, French Center on the United States at the Institut Francais de Relations Internationales, 6/1/4, The Brookings Institute, “GALILEO AND GPS: COOPERATION OR COMPETITION?” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.brookings.edu/fp/cusf/analysis/nardon.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It seems however, that </span>American … help from their foreign counterparts

=== === 
===Spending=== 

**Climate data key to the economy**
**AMS, 2001**
(American Meteorological Society, May, “Improved weather and climate services for the nation: A blueprint for leadership, ” Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. Vol. 82, Iss. 5; pg. 991. Proquest)
Economy. The potential threat of weather … cost the public roughly $1 billion each year.6

**Economy terminally low**
**Smith 9/15,** “Ron Smith: The only question now is how and when the global economy will collapse”
September 15, 2011|Ron Smith, [[http://articles.baltimoresun.com/2011-09-15/news/bs-ed-smith-debt-20110915_1_debt-ceiling-global-economy-political-elite|… ]]

The economic system is finished, … "pass this [jobs] bill now" are hollow words.

**Congress will never end spending**
**SATTERFIELD 4 – 28 – 11**
Terry Satterfield, Politicians can't cut spending, http://www.marionstar.com/article/BF/20110428/OPINION02/104280348/Politicians-can-t-cut-**spending**?odyssey=nav|head
Yet, as we head toward 2012, … cut programs for our senior citizens!").


**Deficit spending improves economy**
**White 2011**, economics professor at George Mason University (Lawrence H. White, Harvard Alumni, associate editor of the “Review of Austrian Economics”, contributing editor for The Freeman magazine, adjunct scholar of the Cato Institute. From Pleasant Deficit Spending To Unpleasant Sovereign Debt Crises from The Clash of Economic Ideas, Mercatus Center, April 2011)

Absent full employment, Eckstein suggested here … NOT to run sufficiently large deficits right now.


<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif';">Economic collapse doesn’t cause war --- lack of resources prevent military conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Bennett and Nordstrom</span><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State, </span><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif'; font-size: 16px;">2000</span><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Scott and Timothy, “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, February, Ebsco] / SHAO</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In this analysis, we focus … account for substitutability between them.</span>


=Negative= 
please email for anything

==Weaponization DA== 

**Obama’s NSP created a cooperative framework against weaponization.**
**Huntley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, <span style="color: black;">http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As is well understood, the space policies of the Bush administration were decidedly oriented toward military security concerns and independent action. The 2006 National Space Policy unabashedly proclaimed the U.S. intention to maintain a dominant position in space indefinitely. This policy orientation dismissed multilateral cooperation as impinging on U.S. “freedom of action,” throwing weight instead behind a wide range of technology development initiatives founded on the assumption that deployment of weapons in space was, if not already factual, certainly inevitable.2 U.S. commercial and civil engagement was overshadowed by these security concerns, expressed through the tightening of export control restrictions inhibiting a broad range of technology sharing. Once again, U.S. space policy was subsumed by other national priorities, in this case dominated by military security concerns. This background is essential for appreciating how </span>__the space policies of the Obama administration__ __are beginning to genuinely break new trails__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__The U.S. National Space Policy issued in June 2010 has been widely recognized for its cooperative and multilateral tone__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, including as explicit near-term goals the expansion of international cooperation on all activities and pursuing international as well as national measures to enhance space stability. </span>__Particularly notable are the document’s emphasis on orienting U.S. “leadership” toward fostering international cooperation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and its references, in its concluding section, to cooperation with other states and non-state actors in the pursuit of national security space objectives.3 Less broadly noticed was this policy’s clarity and coherence in articulating a vision for U.S. space activities on its own terms. The document is organized around core principles, subsidiary goals and implementing guidelines that exceed its predecessors in delineating a longer-term direction for U.S. space policy that is integrated with, rather than derivative of, broader U.S. global aims.4 The policy also was generated and issued far earlier in the tenure of the administration than either of its predecessors, indicating an increased prioritization of attention to space policy at higher levels of policy-making. To some degree,</span> __a turn toward multilateral cooperation in U.S. space policy was to be expected__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. China’s 2007 anti-satellite weapon (ASAT) test and the 2009 Iridium-Cosmos collision increased awareness of the challenge of space debris and the need for better global information sharing on space situational awareness (SSA).5 Also, </span>__new budget realities__ __and unpromising technological developments have scaled back ambitions in some quarters for solving U.S. space security concerns with new independent capabilities__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Finally, the Obama administration has pursued a more cooperative disposition across a wide range of global policy challenges, from Iranian nuclear ambitions to global climate change. But the improved clarity of vision in the 2010 Space Policy suggests that the emphasis on fostering global cooperation on space-related activities is more grounded in deliberate foresight than sailing the prevailing political winds. </span>__The 2011 National Security Space Strategy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, released February 4, </span>__is best interpreted against this background of the Obama administration’s turn toward both greater international space cooperation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and greater attention to space policy in general. This first-of-its-kind strategic statement culminates a congressionally mandated space posture review.6 The initial section portraying the strategic environment to which U.S. security policy must be responsive highlights the growing problems of space debris, orbital congestion and coordination among a growing number of space actors — not state-based security threats per se. The Security Space Strategy features the objective of a “stable space environment in which nations exercise shared responsibility.”7 Specific provisions intended to implement this strategy, relevant to the preceding observations, include:8 • The strategy presents a full section on “Partnering with Responsible Nations, International Organizations, and Commercial Firms.” This category is not wholly multilateral in the traditional sense, displaying a symbiosis of alliance-building and collective cooperation not always carefully distinguished; i.e., “The United States will lead in building coalitions of like-minded space-faring nations and, where appropriate, work with international institutions to do so.” • The strategy intends to “encourage responsible behavior in space and lead by the power of example,” a significant observation given the tendency of U.S. policy-makers (as noted above) not to expect quid pro quo responses to cooperative gestures. Also, </span>__the strategy states the U.S. “will support__ __development of data standards, best practices, transparency and confidence-building measures, and //norms of behavior for responsible space operations//.”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [italics added] In the context of the section on “Preventing and Deterring Aggression,” the strategy similarly intends to “support diplomatic efforts to promote norms of responsible behavior in space” as well as “pursue international partnerships that encourage potential adversary restraint,” along with other measures. </span>__This emphasis on norm-building and the role of example suggests a near-term endorsement of the development of “codes of conduct” for space activities__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (such as the recently revised European Union Code of Conduct, discussed below), </span>__whether or not such concord leads to more formal arms control arrangements__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the longer-term. • </span>__The Department of Defense is directed to “foster cooperative SSA relationships__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” and to “expand provision of safety of flight services to U.S. Government agencies, other nations, and commercial firms.” Greater SSA information sharing has been a key suggestion for fostering international cooperation; the U.S. possesses globally superior SSA capabilities, but restricts the sharing of this information on the basis of national security concerns.9 Hence, this nominal commitment is significant in its own right. • </span>__The strategy commits to reforming export controls.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “In particular, as new opportunities arise for international collaboration, a revised export control system will better enable the domestic firms competing for these contracts.” As noted above, the oppressive impact of current U.S. export controls not only impinges on U.S. commercial space actors but also epitomizes the high degree to which U.S. policy has subsumed commercial and civil interests to national security concerns. The strategy appears to acknowledge this connection and commit to remedy it. • The most assertive passages of the statement are moderated with community-building intent. For example, the strategy’s section on “Preventing and Deterring Aggression” concludes that the U.S. “will retain the right and capabilities to respond in self-defense, should deterrence fail,” but immediately adds that the U.S. “will use force in a manner that is consistent with longstanding principles of international law, treaties to which the United States is a party, and the inherent right of self defense.” • The concluding and most conflict-oriented section of the strategy opens by noting that “some actors may still believe counterspace actions could provide military advantage.” Counterspace capabilities, unarticulated in the document, include ASATs, ground-based directed energy weapons and satellite transmission jamming. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy Gregory Schulte explained at the strategy’s rollout that China is a principal concern in this regard, but so is the proliferation of these technologies: “If Ethiopia can jam a commercial satellite, you have to worry what others can do.”10 This section of the strategy does not, however, call for maintaining options to develop complementary space conflict capabilities. Rather, the strategy asserts that the U.S. “must be prepared to ‘fight through’ a degraded environment,” and identifies “resilience” and “space protection” as the key criteria. The preceding survey of elements of the 2011 National Security Space Strategy is deliberately selective, highlighting those elements expressing consistency with the 2010 National Space Policy’s bend toward fostering greater international collaboration. Perhaps </span>__as striking__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">as the prevalence of such passages, however, </span>__is the absence of expressed intention — even couched in hedging language — to sustain or expand__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the kind of </span>__independent space-based military capabilities__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that were the centerpiece of the prior administration’s aims (if not its accomplishments). Again, to some extent this turn in tone is overdetermined by extenuating global circumstances. But one must still be struck by the degree to which developments such as the Chinese ASAT test have not ignited the kind of response one might have anticipated only a few short years after Donald Rumsfeld’s notorious warning of a “space Pearl Harbor.”11 </span>__The most immediate significance of the National Security Space Strategy is likely the signals its sends concerning U.S. policy toward the recently revised European Union Code of Conduct__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.12 The strategy did not explicitly endorse this EU initiative, but Mr. Schulte, at the February 4 presentation of the strategy, highlighted the initiative “as a potential way” to promote “transparency and confidence-building measures, which tend to be voluntary as opposed to legally binding.” A week earlier, Rose Gottemoeller, Assistant Secretary of State for Arms Control, Verification and Compliance, stated at the Conference on Disarmament that the administration was nearing a decision on whether the U.S. would sign on to the code, and what modifications might be required in order to do so.13 As U.S. interest in the Code of Conduct has increased, debates over its provisions and its relationship to the Outer Space Treaty have intensified. </span>__These policy movements toward multilateral engagement and commitment to behavioral standards (even if non-binding) mark a sharp departure from the stiff resistance to curtailing U.S. “freedom of action” in the previous administration__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and have accordingly generated resistance from congressional opponents on just those terms. Prior to the release of the National Security Space Strategy, a group of 37 Republican senators led by Arizona Senator Jon Kyl issued a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton expressing concern over a potential multilateral commitment that might limit development and/or deployment of space-based missile defense interceptors and ASAT-defeating systems.14 Critics also decried the strategy’s emphasis on “the old fallacious assumption that the power of example will prevent adversaries from doing the United States harm,” and endorsed maintaining the goal of U.S. retention of a “dominant position in military and intelligence space capabilities.”15 In fact, the administration’s warming toward normative commitments in general — and the EU Code of Conduct in particular — are in part intended to forestall pressure for more formal and binding measures that would definitively cut off the “hedge” of unilateral U.S. weapons development options.16 The balance of U.S. debate may have shifted toward greater international cooperation, but the terms of the debate remain the same. In sum, </span>__the National Security Space Strategy appears to mark not only a swing in U.S. policy__ __toward greater global engagement but also,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and more importantly, </span>__a____step toward greater long-term coherence in thinking concerning the core goals of U.S. space activities__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Even supporters of the general directions of the strategy noted its more-than-expected breadth of thought.17 But if this reading is sound, the strategy is still but one step on a long road, and ongoing debates over the role of U.S. space policy vis-à-vis broader national security interests will insure that road is bumpy. Suggesting such limitations, Mr. Schulte acknowledged that the classified version of the strategy is only four pages longer than the released version, indicating that more specific guidelines for military implementation of the strategy remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>

**Plan undermines this framework—by definition, defensive capabilities will have offensive capabilities too—those are percieved**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Krepon, 3</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Michael, president of the Henry Stimson Center , Space Assurance or Space Dominance? THE CASE AGAINST WEAPONIZING SPACE, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf)</span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">An alternative to maneuverability would be to provide important satellites with their own means of self-defense, such as explosive charges or small homing missiles to destroy ASATs</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> before they can carry out attacks. To be effective, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">this self-protection measure would require shooting first, rather than waiting to find out whether an approaching object were an ASAT</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">—unless, of course, warfare has already begun. </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The flight-testing and deployment of weapons in space designed to defend satellites from attack would be indistinguishable</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, for all practical as well as for space policy purposes, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">from</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> the flight-testing and deployment in space of offensive weapons.</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Put another way,</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">preemptive defense of satellites could also be employed as a preemptive offense</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Moreover, the military utility of defending satellites by offensive means in space might be limited against sophisticated, maneuverable ASATs. The creation of space debris resulting from an active defense in space could also impair satellite operations.</span>

**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
**Dant, 11** - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf</span>)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cooperation for contested and competitive domain</span>**//.//** __The NSP also recommits us to cooperate in space: “__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The US hereby renews its pledge of cooperation in the belief that with strengthened international collaboration and reinvigorated US leadership, all nations and peoples—space-faring and space-benefiting— will find their horizons broadened, their knowledge enhanced, and their lives greatly improved.” In addition, </span>__the policy specifies that the US endeavors to leverage national security space to “expand international cooperation” in order to “extend the benefits of space; further the peaceful use of space; and enhance collection and partnership in sharing of space-derived information__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”8 </span>__This represents a subtle but significant shift in policy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Some argue, including many international partners I have spoken to, that our previous policies paid a certain degree of “lip service” to cooperation and were best described as bellicose__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Moreover, </span>__these policies were underwritten by an informal strategy of “space dominance” which called for discouraging and restraining others to our benefit__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__This methodology was lost neither by our allies nor our rivals. Clearly, that scheme of maneuver has not worked, evidenced by the increasing competition in the domain, higher incidents of denied access in space, and decline in the American space industrial base__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, especially second and third tier companies. </span>__A perceptible result of cooperating in space, and thus converting competitors to collaborators, is that it gives space-faring partners a stake in pursuing responsible behavior and increases their willingness to cooperate in space__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (or at least lessens the chances of hostile or irresponsible actions in space).9 Once again, </span>__the president, in both substance and tone, has started us on the right path with the new NSP by re-energizing international cooperation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is now up to the Department of Defense (DoD), led by and in close coordination with the State Department via a whole of government approach, to translate our advantages in space to active leadership of the coalition of responsible space-faring nations.</span>

**Space weaponization will encourage countries to destroy US satellites and cause a global war and extinction**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Mitchell, et al 01</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">)</span>
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence, but this rationale glosses over the tendency that '… the presence of space weapons…will result in</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> the increased likelihood of </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">their use'</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34</span> __<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent 'dual capability' of spaceborne weapon components</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">interceptors can</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">be used as orbiting 'Death Stars', capable of sending munitions hurtling through the Earth's atmosphere. The dizzying speed of space warfare would introduce intense 'use or lose' pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating incentives to rig orbiting Death Stars with automated 'hair trigger' devices</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">by taking the decision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious seeds of accidental conflict</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">. Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed 'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance. According to Perrow, this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'.36 </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Deployment of space weapons with pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles would likely make war itself inevitable, given the susceptibility of such systems to 'normal accidents'.</span>__ <span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">'even a tiny projectile reentering from space strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than would be done by a nuclear weapon of the same size!'</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38 Given this unique potential for destruction, it is not hard to imagine that </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">any nation subjected to space weapon attack would retaliate with maximum force, including use of nuclear, biological, and/or chemical weapons. An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__


==Russia Relations DA== 

Note: We read specific links when we have them

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">US-Russian relations high now- “reset,” jobs, and trade prove </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Good 6/21</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">-</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;"> Journalist and political science … , ZA)</span>

__The Obama administration has …__ __and from Houston and Atlanta__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">." </span>

**Reversing Us space reliance on Russia destroys relations**
**Ardayeva 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – (1/27/11, Anya, FSN (the world's leading independent broadcast news agency) Lead Moscow Correspondent and her TV and Radio reports are seen and heard worldwide , “Russia, US Set to Forge New Era in Space,” [[http://www.voanews.com/english/news/usa/Russia-US-Set-to-Forge-New-Era-in-Space-114740769.html]] DH) </span>

__The $100-billion International Space Station … in the exploration of space.__

**Relations solves aff impacts and worming**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Atlantic 8</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (November, Medvedev Spoils the Party, [[http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200811u/medvedev-obama]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Like it or not, </span>the … <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">a volatile future arm in arm. </span>

**That leads to extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Deibel 7 – </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Professor of IR Terry, Prof IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Finally, there is one major … of life on this planet</span>

==Security K== 

**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">their production of outer space as sphere for U.S. control produces militarisitic antagonism that suppresses all others through another sphere</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jackie Orr, Sociology at Syracuse, 2004</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Militarization of Inner Space, Critical Sociology, Sage Journals</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">“[E]very American is a soldier” now, declared George W. Bush</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">organization of civil society for the production of violence.</span>

**Securitization is a precondition to genocide- their descriptions will be used to justify massive violence**
<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif;">Karsten </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Friis,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif;"> UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 11pt;">2k</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif;"> [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” [[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2|http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The problem with societal securitization is one of representation ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 6pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 11pt;">where truth is never questioned. </span>

**Vote negative to reject the violent logic of security. Critical praxis outweighs policy making- voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecy**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Graeme </span>**Cheeseman,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span>**Bruce** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ</span>**, ‘96** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>

This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in... and their academic advisors are unaware of broader intellectual debates, or resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?


==DnG K== 

**The 1AC is another regimented act of security- like a doctors diagnosing a disease we find the problem and remove it like a cancer in an act of thought that is medical in nature a politics that maintains totalitarian norms – this repression of desire into mere representation ensures a politics of perpetual error replication- Power is not changed it just changes hands Therefore the alternative is to abandon the ego – to to de-normalize and de-individualize through a multiplicity of new, collective arrangements against power**
Mark **Seem** 19**72** [Introduction, Anti-Oedipus, xvii]//JR//

//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">To put it simply, as … </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">only incurable is the neurotic."</span>//


//**The alternative is the only true revolutionary act- the 1AC cedes it’s potential to fascism the kind that corrupts the mind and leads to a resentment of life - Let us never forget: the fascism of Nazi Germany did not begin with the SS kicking in doors, but in the minds of the good**// **volk//. It is the desire to be led that produces the worst forms of violence imaginable. Instead we should anti-oedipalize our thought.**

Mark **Seem 72** (AO xx-xxiii)
__To be anti-oedipal____is … without demolishing entire social sectors__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">."</span>

==Crowaves PIC== 

**Text:****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States federal government should  __excluding the use of microwave based delivery method.__ </span>**

__**Lasers alone solve**__
__**Gray, Science correspondent for the telegraph,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span>**10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard Gray, 1/23/10, “Lasers to beam energy to Earth from space” accessed 6/28/11 http://www.telegraph.co.uk/earth/energy/solarpower/7060015/Lasers-to-beam-energy-to-Earth-from-space.html aes)</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It sounds more like a scheme...</span>__ during the hours of sunlight__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__

__**SPS interferes with astronomer detection frequencies**__
__**Hoffert and Potter 1997**—Ph.D., astronautics, The Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, M.A., liberal studies, sociology, and economics at the New school for Social Research in Michigan, professor of physics at NYU, Potter has a B.A. and M.A. in Physics from Columbia University, Associate Technical Fellow at The Boeing Company__
__(Martin and Seth, “Beam it Down: How the New Satellites Can Power the World,” October 1997, http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/beam_it_down_how_the_new_satellites_can_power_the_world.shtml)__
A bigger potential problem ... technology before it's born.

__**Asteroid detection capabilities are key to prevent catastrophic impacts**__
__**Jones 08**—scientist, author, pilot, and former NASA astronaut, he holds a doctorate in planetary sciences, and in more than eleven years with NASA, flew on four space shuttle missions to Earth orbit__
__(Thomas, “Asteroid detection: Planning for the inevitable,” October, Lexis Nexis)__
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At least we are looking: </span>__.... be staring at a PHA catalog that numbers more than 5,000!__


**The impact is extinction**
**McGUIRE 2002**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Tunguska events pale into insignificance when compared to .... a new comet heading in our direction. </span>



==Strategy Overview== 
===Iowa Caucus Strategy=== 

Round 2 vs Washington Rural Asteroids

Asteroids Fear K
T - No Ground Based
Nasa Tradeoff DA (2nr)
China Bashing Politics
Case (2nr)

Round 3 vs Shawnee Mission East Space Based Interceptors

Security K (2nr)
Weaponization DA
China Bashing Politics
T - Human
Russian Relations DA
Case

Round 5 vs Barstow Legal Rights for space development aff

Frontier K (2nr)
China Bashing Politics
T - Resolved
Russia Relations
ITAR CP
Case


Doubles vs Millard West NOAA Environment Aff

Environmental Security K (2nr)
china bashing politics
T - Human
RPS CP
Case

Octos vs. Millard South Whity on the Moon

DnG K (2nr)
Ban Nasa CP
Heg DA
Framework
case - space exploration good

===UMich Strategy=== 

Round 1 v. MBA (SPS)

T-Human,
ESA
Russia Relations (2nr)
Wep DA
case (2nr)

Round 3 v. Iowa City (Asteroid Mining)
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">T- Human </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Frontier K</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Consult Russia</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Africa Mining DA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> NASA Earth Tradeoff DA(2nr)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">case (2nr) </span>

Round 5 v. Carrolton (SPS)
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">T-Human</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Lacan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Microwaves PIC</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Wep</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Rus Rel DA (2nr)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">case (2nr)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Round 7 v. Iowa City West (SPS)</span>


T-Human
Frontier
Microwaves PIC
Wep
Rus Rel DA
case with Iran Oil and ozone (2nr)

Doubles v. OPRF (Cyborgs)

Framework
T- Beyond
Virilio (2nr)
Kappeler
NASA Tradeoff
Launches
case