<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[toc]]
</span>








=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cite Requests</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">For affirmative cites email Daniela Mintz at [[mailto:damintz95@gmail.com|damintz95@gmail.com]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">For negative cites email Paula Zampietro at [[mailto:pzamp94@gmail.com|pzamp94@gmail.com]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> if you're that guy that doesn't put up cites on your wiki, don't email us. </span>

=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Affirmative </span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Affirmative Notes</span>== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The latest version of the 1AC at each tournament will be posted, as well as all add-ons read. We realize that we have multiple affirmatives up on the wiki--we decide what aff we read before each round, but we promise you that every 1AC we've run is posted. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">For specific 2AC blocks or answers email me. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">I'll make sure to get back to you promptly. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">--Daniela </span>



==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space Superiority</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1ACs</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Berkeley** </span>==== 


=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1: Chinese Space Dominance</span>**</span>===== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China is pursuing space dominance</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. <span class="Underline">Research</span> Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The PLA has …from doing so</span>__**.</span>







<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Multiple reasons China is pursuing space dominance</span>**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, new “historic missions”</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China’s space efforts … freedom of action</span>__**.</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second, deterrence</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PLA writings increasingly </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…of space</span>__**deterrence.</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Third, joint operations</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Finally, by way … their own right.</span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fourth, informational operations</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Increasingly, the PLA …through sneak attack</span>__**.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fifth, Taiwan</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">If the Chinese …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> taken in space</span>__**. 848</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sixth, CCP prestige</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 10</span>** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. “The Case for Weapons in Space” Sep [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China’s current space ….**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">made products abroad.</span>__**</span>






<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prefer our evidence- it’s the most authoritative</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Despite this, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it … own space weapons</span>__**.</span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-China space war is coming</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 10</span>** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. “The Case for Weapons in Space” Sep [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">On the surface**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, … is outer space.</span>__**</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Contention 2: Hegemony**</span>===== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space deterrence is key to hege</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 10</span>** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. “The Case for Weapons in Space” Sep [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This is the …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> kind is compelling. </span>__**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We’ll isolate some specific reasons</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, space deterrence is key to conventional deterrence</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 10 </span>** (Forrest. Senior Political Scientist, RAND Corporation. Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space. http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Although this assessment …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">deterrence and stability</span>__**. (See p. 21.)</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second, space systems are key to US military effectiveness</span>**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a. PLA will target GPS satellites</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In addition, because …</span>__** is relatively difficult. 870</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">b. And they’ll target recon satellites</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Assuming that this…**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> our campaign force</span>__**.”863</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">c. And communications satellites</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Other types of … satellite signal receivers. 864</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">d. These are key to military operations</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U.S. military </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…and their operators</span>__**.</span>






<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Third, Chinese expansionism</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a. Chinese expansionism destroys US hege</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glosny 11</span>** (Michael. Jan. Instructor, National Security Affairs Department, Naval Postgraduate School. Adjunct Fellow, Institute for National Security Studies, National Defense University. “Getting Beyond Taiwan? Chinese Foreign Policy and PLA Modernization” [[http://permanent.access.gpo.gov/gpo8910/SF%20261_Glosny.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Option 5: **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extra-regional Activities</span>__**…**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> sustain such operations</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">b. Space deterrence solves Chinese expansionism</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dobbins et al 11</span>** (James Dobbins, David C. Gompert, David A. Shlapak, Andrew Scobell. RAND Arroyo Center. “Conflict with China: Prospects, Consequences, and Strategies for Deterrence” [[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/occasional_papers/2011/RAND_OP344.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The above cases … in the military field.</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Now the impact debate</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**a. heg solves every impact** </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Zhang and Shi 11** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">- * a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.  **Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry”** **[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/,bs]]****)**</span></span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">This does not …</span>__unrivalled US primacy.__ </span>**





b. theres no alternative to US heg 

Kagan 12 **[Robert Kagan, //senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution//, February 11, 2012, “Why the World Needs America”, WSJ, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html]], DMintz]**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__History shows that…came into being.__</span>**




b. collapse causes nuclear war

Kagan, 7** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, //Policy Review,// August/Sept, “End of Dreams, Return of History”)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">If </span>__the world …__ __an easier path__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span></span>


=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Plan** </span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its space deterrence capabilities beyond the Earth’s mesosphere. </span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Contention 3: Solvency**</span>===== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">deterrence is the best military space posture</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 8</span>** (Bruce, Council on Foreign Relations. Council Special Report No. 38. Former asst. dir, nat’l sec, White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Fmr sr. dir for science and technology, National Security Council. Fmr nuclear weapons and tech specialist, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, US Dep’t of State. Fmr START delegate. Senior Director, Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States. BSE, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, public and international affairs, Woodrow Wilson School “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security” Sep [[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This tension has…**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">accompany these steps</span>__**. </span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deterrence is the middle ground- it solves most attacks while preventing escalation and arms race</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 8</span>** (Bruce, Council on Foreign Relations. Council Special Report No. 38. Former asst. dir, nat’l sec, White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Fmr sr. dir for science and technology, National Security Council. Fmr nuclear weapons and tech specialist, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, US Dep’t of State. Fmr START delegate. Senior Director, Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States. BSE, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, public and international affairs, Woodrow Wilson School “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security” Sep [[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The next broad…</span>__**defending against them</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space deterrence avoids the disads to space dominance</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 9</span>__** (Trevor. Spring. //Air & Space Power Journal//. 23.1 Business Economics & Theory Collection. “Soft power and space weaponization” InfoTrac)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Official rhetoric </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">clearly …position of leadership.</span>__**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Strength is key to making China into a responsible world-power</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dobbins et al 11</span>** (James Dobbins, David C. Gompert, David A. Shlapak, Andrew Scobell. RAND Arroyo Center. “Conflict with China: Prospects, Consequences, and Strategies for Deterrence” [[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/occasional_papers/2011/RAND_OP344.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A climate of …</span>__** rather than later.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Going first is key to space control- can’t outflank in space</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 6</span>** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” March 10th, Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=408)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">After resolving whether…senses, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">is unflankable</span>__**. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Deterring the initial attack is key- any space conflict disproportionately hurts the US</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 10 </span>** (Forrest. Senior Political Scientist, RAND Corporation. Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space. http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Unfortunately, many of …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and its allies.</span>__**</span>




====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Emory**</span>==== 

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1: Chinese Space Dominance </span>**</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China is pursuing space dominance</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. <span class="Underline">Research</span> Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The PLA has …from doing so</span>__**.</span>






<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Multiple reasons China is pursuing space dominance</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, new “historic missions”</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China’s space efforts … freedom of action</span>__**.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second, deterrence</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PLA writings increasingly </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…of space</span>__**deterrence.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Third, joint operations</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Finally, by way … their own right.</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fourth, informational operations</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Increasingly, the PLA …through sneak attack</span>__**.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fifth, Taiwan</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">If the Chinese …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> taken in space</span>__**. 848</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sixth, CCP prestige</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 10</span>** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. “The Case for Weapons in Space” Sep [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China’s current space ….**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">made products abroad.</span>__**</span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prefer our evidence- it’s the most authoritative</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Despite this, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it … own space weapons</span>__**.</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-China space war is coming</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 10</span>** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. “The Case for Weapons in Space” Sep [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">On the surface**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, … is outer space.</span>__**</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Contention 2: Hegemony**</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space deterrence is key to hege</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 10</span>** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. “The Case for Weapons in Space” Sep [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This is the …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">kind is compelling. </span>__**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We’ll isolate some specific reasons</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, space deterrence is key to conventional deterrence</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 10 </span>**(Forrest. Senior Political Scientist, RAND Corporation. Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space. http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Although this assessment …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">deterrence and stability</span>__**. (See p. 21.)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second, space systems are key to US military effectiveness</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a. PLA will target GPS satellites</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In addition, because …</span>__** is relatively difficult. 870</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">b. And they’ll target recon satellites</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Assuming that this …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> our campaign force</span>__**.”863</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">c. And communications satellites</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Other types of …satellite signal receivers. 864</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">d. These are key to military operations</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U.S. military </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">… and their operators</span>__**.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Third, Chinese expansionism</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a. Chinese expansionism destroys US hege</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glosny 11</span>** (Michael. Jan. Instructor, National Security Affairs Department, Naval Postgraduate School. Adjunct Fellow, Institute for National Security Studies, National Defense University. “Getting Beyond Taiwan? Chinese Foreign Policy and PLA Modernization” [[http://permanent.access.gpo.gov/gpo8910/SF%20261_Glosny.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Option 5: **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extra-regional …sustain such operations.</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">b. Space deterrence solves Chinese expansionism</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dobbins et al 11</span>** (James Dobbins, David C. Gompert, David A. Shlapak, Andrew Scobell. RAND Arroyo Center. “Conflict with China: Prospects, Consequences, and Strategies for Deterrence” [[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/occasional_papers/2011/RAND_OP344.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The above cases … the military field.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Now the impact debate</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">a. Hege solves every impact</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Zhang and Shi 11** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">- * a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C. **Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry”** </span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/,bs]])</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">This does not …</span> __unrivalled US primacy.__** </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">b. collapse causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kagan, 7** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, //Policy Review,// August/Sept, “End of Dreams, Return of History”)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">If </span>__the world …__ __an easier path__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span></span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Plan** </span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its space deterrence capabilities beyond the Earth’s mesosphere. </span>


=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Contention 3: Solvency** </span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">deterrence is the best military space posture</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 8</span>** (Bruce, Council on Foreign Relations. Council Special Report No. 38. Former asst. dir, nat’l sec, White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Fmr sr. dir for science and technology, National Security Council. Fmr nuclear weapons and tech specialist, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, US Dep’t of State. Fmr START delegate. Senior Director, Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States. BSE, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, public and international affairs, Woodrow Wilson School “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security” Sep [[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This tension has…**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">accompany these steps</span>__**. </span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deterrence is the middle ground- it solves most attacks while preventing escalation and arms arce</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 8</span>** (Bruce, Council on Foreign Relations. Council Special Report No. 38. Former asst. dir, nat’l sec, White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Fmr sr. dir for science and technology, National Security Council. Fmr nuclear weapons and tech specialist, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, US Dep’t of State. Fmr START delegate. Senior Director, Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States. BSE, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, public and international affairs, Woodrow Wilson School “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security” Sep [[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The next broad …</span>__** defending against them</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space deterrence avoids the disads to space dominance</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 9</span>__** (Trevor. Spring. //Air & Space Power Journal//. 23.1 Business Economics & Theory Collection. “Soft power and space weaponization” InfoTrac)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Official rhetoric </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">clearly …position of leadership.</span>__**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Going first is key to space control- can’t outflank in space</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 6</span>** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” March 10th, Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=408)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">After resolving whether …senses, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">is unflankable</span>__**. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Deterring the initial attack is key- any space conflict disproportionately hurts the US</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 10 </span>**(Forrest. Senior Political Scientist, RAND Corporation. Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space. http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Unfortunately, many of …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and its allies.</span>__**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if collapse is inevitable, deterrence is key to ensuring the next hegemon follows our model</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 6</span>** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” March 10th, Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=408)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Dolman: Well, I think …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> sort of order.</span>__**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Strength is key to making China into a responsible world-power</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dobbins et al 11</span>** (James Dobbins, David C. Gompert, David A. Shlapak, Andrew Scobell. RAND Arroyo Center. “Conflict with China: Prospects, Consequences, and Strategies for Deterrence” [[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/occasional_papers/2011/RAND_OP344.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A climate of …</span>__** rather than later.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solves space relations with China</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">An increasingly important …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">resources to this end.</span>__**</span>







====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Crestian Round Robin**</span>==== 

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1: A Space War is Coming </span>**</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China is pursuing space dominance</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. <span class="Underline">Research</span> Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The PLA has …from doing so</span>__**.</span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Multiple reasons China is pursuing space dominance</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, new “historic missions”</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China’s space efforts … freedom of action</span>__**.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second, deterrence </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PLA writings increasingly </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…of space</span>__**deterrence.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Third, joint operations</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Finally, by way … their own right.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fourth, informational operations</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Increasingly, the PLA …through sneak attack</span>__**.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fifth, Taiwan</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">If the Chinese …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> taken in space</span>__**. 848</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sixth, CCP prestige</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 10</span>** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. “The Case for Weapons in Space” Sep [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China’s current space ….**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">made products abroad. </span>__**</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prefer our evidence- it’s the most authoritative</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollpeter 5</span>** (Kevin. Dec. Research Analyst, DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations” __China’s Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs__. [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Despite this, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it … own space weapons</span>__**.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-China space war is coming</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 10</span>** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. “The Case for Weapons in Space” Sep [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">On the surface**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, … is outer space.</span>__**</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Contention 2: Space War is Bad** </span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">US-China space war is bad- we’ll isolate 3 scenarios</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">First is economy</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even a limited US-Sino conflict destroys the global economy</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dobbins et al 11</span>** (James Dobbins, David C. Gompert, David A. Shlapak, Andrew Scobell. RAND Arroyo Center. “Conflict with China: Prospects, Consequences, and Strategies for Deterrence” [[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/occasional_papers/2011/RAND_OP344.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Short of a … limit the damage</span>__**.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Triggers multiple scenarios for extinction </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white;">**Harris and Burrows,’9** [Mathew Harris //Counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council// and Jennifer Burrows //Member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit//, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly, </span>[[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]<span style="background-color: white;">.]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the …more </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">dog-eat-dog world. </span>__</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Second is disease</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-Sino space war with current capabilities makes LEO unusable</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 10</span>** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. “The Case for Weapons in Space” Sep [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The US responded ….**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">cheaply and effectively</span>__**.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Disease increasing now – causes systemic deaths**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Hamburg et al 8** (Senior Scientist at the Nuclear Threat Initiative, MD—AND—Jeffrey Levi, PhD, Associate Professor in the Department of Health Policy at George Washington U—AND—Kimberly Elliot, MA—AND—Lynora Williams, MA. Peer-Reviewed by: Edward A. Belongia, MD, director of the Epidemiology Research Center at Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation—AND—Luciana L. Borio, MD, senior associate at the biosecurity center at Pittsburgh U—AND—Robert J. Guidos, JD, Director, Public Policy & Government Relations at the Infectious Diseases Society of America—AND—James Hughes, MD, Professor of Medicine and Public Health at Emory, Former Director of the National Centers of Infectious Diseases; U.S.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention—AND—Kathleen F. Gensheimer, MD, MPH, Maine HHS epidemiologist—AND—James Lawler, MD, MPH, FACP, CDR MC U.S. Navy; Chief Medical Officer—AND—Ruth Lynfield, MD, Minnesota health dept epidemiologist—AND—Michael Mair, MPH, Associate at the Pittsburgh U center for Biosecurity (Margaret A., October 2008, Germs Go Global: WHY EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASES ARE A THREAT TO AMERICA, http://healthyamericans.org/assets/files/GermsGoGlobal.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Despite remarkable breakthroughs … has significant interests__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.”3 </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Satellites solve epidemics.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ford et. al 11</span> (Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine; University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates), “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, [[@http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538]],) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__The scientific community …of virus transmission__ (26). </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Disease spread causes extinction.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Zimmerman 96** [Barry and David, both have M.S. degrees from Long Island University, Killer Germs p 132]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Then came AIDS… __planet is the virus____”__ (//A Dancing Matrix//, by Robin Marantz Hening).</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Third is escalation</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space war escalates to terrestrial retaliation</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 10</span>** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. “The Case for Weapons in Space” Sep [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In space, no </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span>__** threat of violence.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">US-Sino war goes nuclear</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Hunkovic 2k9** (Lee J, American Military University “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf //da: 7/24)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__A war between__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in this study.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Activates Russian Early Warning System</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Kristensen** director of the Nuclear Information Project at the Federation of American Scientists, 06 [“Report: Chinese Nuclear Forces and U.S. Nuclear War”, http://www.nukestrat.com/china/chinareport.htm]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In Chapter 2 </span>__we__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">10,560 miles (</span>__17,000 km__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">).</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Rosenberg**, San Francisco Gate, 06 [Eric, “Experts warn of an accidental atomic war / Nuclear missile modified for conventional attack on Iran could set off alarm in Russia”, http://articles.sfgate.com/2006-10-06/news/17316809_1_nuclear-missiles-norwegian-scientific-rocket-ballistic]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Russian military officers__ __….are false alarms.__ </span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Plan Text**</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its space superiority capabilities beyond the Earth’s mesosphere. </span>


=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Contention 3: Solvency**</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space superiority is the best military space posture</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 8</span>** (Bruce, Council on Foreign Relations. Council Special Report No. 38. Former asst. dir, nat’l sec, White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Fmr sr. dir for science and technology, National Security Council. Fmr nuclear weapons and tech specialist, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, US Dep’t of State. Fmr START delegate. Senior Director, Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States. BSE, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, public and international affairs, Woodrow Wilson School “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security” Sep [[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This tension has …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> accompany these steps</span>__**. </span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solves space relations with China</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">An increasingly important …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> resources to this end</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deterrence is the middle ground- it solves most attacks while preventing escalation and arms arce</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 8</span>** (Bruce, Council on Foreign Relations. Council Special Report No. 38. Former asst. dir, nat’l sec, White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Fmr sr. dir for science and technology, National Security Council. Fmr nuclear weapons and tech specialist, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, US Dep’t of State. Fmr START delegate. Senior Director, Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States. BSE, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, public and international affairs, Woodrow Wilson School “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security” Sep [[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The next broad ….</span>__**defending against them.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space supremacy avoids the disads to space dominance</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 9</span>__** (Trevor. Spring. //Air & Space Power Journal//. 23.1 Business Economics & Theory Collection. “Soft power and space weaponization” InfoTrac)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Official rhetoric </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">clearly …position of leadership.</span>__**</span>


==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space Debris</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1ACs</span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Alta--Quarters**</span>==== 
=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Collisions**</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Contention 1: Collisions**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Collapse is inevitable in the status quo --- insufficient measures and cascade effect**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Ansdell ’10** [Megan – Graduate student in International Science and Technology Policy at GWU Elliott School of International Affairs, focusing in space policy. Princeton University Journal of Public and International Affairs. Spring. [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]] “Active Space Debris Removal”]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the probability …</span> __from orbit__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” (Johnson 2009a, 2).</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**We’ve reached the tipping point— risk of collisions snowballing is uniquely high**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Gilbert 9/5** [Dave Gilbert, September 5, 2011, “Space debris threat 'at tipping point'”, CNN, [[http://www.cnn.com/2011/09/05/tech/space-debris/index.html]], DMintz]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Satellite failures could … place__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," said Massey. </span></span>



<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Must act now to preserve LEO usability</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pearson et al 10</span>**(Carroll & Levin. Star Technology and Research. International Aeronautical Congress. “Active Debris Removal” http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The NASA Orbital …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">for hundreds of years</span>__**2</span>


<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically, large debris is a major threat </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foust 9</span>**</span> (Jeff. July 27. Editor & Publisher, Space Review. http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1427/1)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The key</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> for … large-large collisions</span>**</span>.”</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Space debris collapses space assets --- 2 internal links:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**1. knocks down satellites**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Bates 10** (Claire Bates, May 27, 2010, “ Space junk threatens 'chain reaction' that could destroy communications on Earth”, [[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1281775/Space-junk-threatens-cause-chain-reaction-wipe-communications-Earth.html#ixzz1T8E0T5U8http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1281775/Space-junk-threatens-cause-chain-reaction-wipe-communications-Earth.html|http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1281775/Space-junk-threatens-cause-chain-reaction-wipe-communications-Earth.html#ixzz1T8E0T5U8http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1281775/Space-junk-threatens-cause-chain-reaction-wipe-communications-Earth.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__There is so … protect the public interest.__</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**2. blocks communication signals**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Jaggard 10 – National Geographic**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Victoria Jaggard, National Geographic News Writer, 3-28-2010, “Tiny Solar Sail Pitched to Clean Up Space Junk,” National Geographic, http://newswatch.nationalgeographic.com/2010/03/28/tiny_solar_sail_pitched_to_cle/</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Collisions__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with even …</span> __surrounded by junk__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**We’ll isolate several scenarios:**</span>

======<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**START**</span>====== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Scenario 1 : START**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">START is going well now—but satellites are key to verification </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="officialsname">**Gottemoeller, 9/9/2011**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rose, Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance, “Russia and the West: Moving the Reset Forward”, September 9, 2011, [[http://www.state.gov/t/avc/rls/172055.htm]]) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__The New START …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the next steps. </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sustained</span>//****<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> verification is critical for success </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__Woolf, 2010__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Amy F., Specialist in Nuclear Weapons Policy, “Monitoring and Verification in Arms Control”, Congressional Research Service, December 23, 2010, [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/source_docs/us/congress/congressional_research_service/54]] .pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__Verification is the …cooperation and transparency.__**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Verification failure ensures START bombs—we need our satellites for success </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__Thielman, 2010__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Greg, Senior Fellow at the Arms Control Association, “New START Verification: Fitting the Means to the Ends”, http://www.armscontrol.org/system/files/TAB_START_Verification.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The object of …</span> **__crises can increase.__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**And we’ll isolate specific impacts:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Impact 1 is Miscalc**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Losing visibility causes accidental launch**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bergmann 10 (Max, September 15, pg. http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/09/conservatives_newstart.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The danger from … maintain nuclear stability.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Russian accident launch causes escalation & Extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Starr, 08<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Senior Scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility (Steven, “Eliminate High-Alert, Launch-Ready Nuclear Weapons,” http://www.nucleardarkness.org/solutions/eliminatehighalertnuclearweapons/)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Resolution L.5: Decreasing …</span> life on Earth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">This scenario outweighs ---</span>**</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">**a) Perception of START is critical** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: aqua;">HALLAM 09</span>** [Editor of Nuclear Flashpoints, John Burroughs and Marcy Fowler, Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">John Hallam, , 2009, NPT Preparatory Committee, Steps Toward a Safer World]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why did an article …</span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;"> nuclear weapon systems</span>____<span style="color: #333333;">.</span>__</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**b) magnitude – US-Russia war outweighs**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Bostrom 2**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nick, PhD, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__A much greater …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the 21st century.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**c) time frame - e****xtinction happens in thirty minutes**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Mintz, 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – writer for the American Prospect (Morton, February 26, “Two Minutes to Launch,” The American Prospect, </span>[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch|__http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Hair-trigger alert__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">checklist, by rote.” </span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Impact 2 is Iran airmissile sales**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Start failure causes s-300 airmissile sale to IRAN**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Weingarten 10**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[Elizabeth Weingarten, editorial assistant at Slate. She formerly wrote for and produced The Atlantic's International channel, [[http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2010/11/the-iran-start-connection/66908/]], “The Iran-Start Connection”, 11/22/10]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>__This is a pivotal … with the country.__</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**S-300 Sales cause Iran-Israel War- conflict won’t be contained**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**UPI 09**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[United Press International,8/19/09, [[http://www.upi.com/Top_News/Special/2009/08/19/Russia-may-nix-S-300-sale-to-Iran/UPI-89221250708513/]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russian President Dmitry </span>__…spots with precision."__</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**It escalates globally and causes biowarfare**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Alexander 8 (Timothy, July 6, pg. http://www.rense.com/general82/perf.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Regardless of how…attacks on Iran</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">That results in two extinction scenarios:</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**a) Biowar**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ochs 2</span>**(Richard Ochs, ANALYST FOR THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS WORKING GROUP, July 9 2002 -- “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY” -- http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__Of all the … IS NOW POSSIBLE.__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**b) Iran Israel Retaliation**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Hirsch 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of physics @ University of California, San Diego. [Jorge Hirsch, “Israel, Iran and the US: Who Will be Blamed for Nuclear War?,” </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Global Research</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, July 24, 2006, pg. [[@http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=2807]].]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the end …</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">comes to an end</span>**.**</span>
======<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt; text-decoration: none;">Economy</span>====== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Scenario 2: The Economy**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">GPS is vital to economic leadership, innovation, jobs and R&D </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Pham, 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> – Economics Ph.D. @ George Washington University – Nam D., June, “The Economic Benefits of Commercial GPS Use in the U.S. and The Costs of Potential Disruption” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.saveourgps.org/pdf/GPS-Report-June-22-2011.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">The commercial stakes …</span>__<span style="background-color: white;">or military users. </span>__</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Its try or die --- just one collision will cause enough panic to destroy the market </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Space Daily, ‘9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (August 31, 2009, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Space_Debris_Problem_Solved_999.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, Space Daily)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Upper stages must …</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">calculable</span>__**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">. </span>____<span style="background-color: white;">This is scary!</span>__</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">we control escalation --- effects are felt globally </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [ Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D., project supervisors at Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Fifty years after …</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">throughout multiple nations.</span>__**</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">triggers multiple scenarios for extinction </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Harris and Burrows,’9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [Mathew Harris //Counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council// and Jennifer Burrows //Member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit//, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">.]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the … </span>__dog-eat-dog world.__</span>




=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Plan Text**</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Text:** The United States Department of Defense should develop and deploy ElectroDynamic Debris Eliminators to decrease space debris.</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Contention 3: Solvency** </span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space superiority is the best military space posture</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 8</span>** (Bruce, Council on Foreign Relations. Council Special Report No. 38. Former asst. dir, nat’l sec, White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Fmr sr. dir for science and technology, National Security Council. Fmr nuclear weapons and tech specialist, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, US Dep’t of State. Fmr START delegate. Senior Director, Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States. BSE, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, public and international affairs, Woodrow Wilson School “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security” Sep [[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This tension has …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> accompany these steps</span>__**. </span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solves space relations with China</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng 11</span>** (Dean. Aug 16. Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">An increasingly important …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> resources to this end</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deterrence is the middle ground- it solves most attacks while preventing escalation and arms arce</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 8</span>** (Bruce, Council on Foreign Relations. Council Special Report No. 38. Former asst. dir, nat’l sec, White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Fmr sr. dir for science and technology, National Security Council. Fmr nuclear weapons and tech specialist, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, US Dep’t of State. Fmr START delegate. Senior Director, Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States. BSE, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, aerospace engineering. Masters, Princeton, public and international affairs, Woodrow Wilson School “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security” Sep [[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The next broad ….</span>__**defending against them.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space supremacy avoids the disads to space dominance</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 9</span>__** (Trevor. Spring. //Air & Space Power Journal//. 23.1 Business Economics & Theory Collection. “Soft power and space weaponization” InfoTrac)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Official rhetoric </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">clearly …position of leadership.</span>__**</span>



=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Solvency**</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Contention Two: Solvency</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EDDE solves debris</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wall 11</span>__** (Mike. 9/2. Science writer, Idaho National Laboratory. Ph.D. [[http://www.space.com/12819-space-junk-cleanup-giant-net-tether.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A small fleet of … reduce the risk</span>__**."</span>


<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Department of Defense is key</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dinerman 9</span>**</span> (Taylor. May 4. [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1365/1]])</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">What is required …</span>**nebulous **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">international consortium</span>**.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**No international counterplans— only the US solves**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Megan **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ansdell, ’10</span>** – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]].</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As previously discussed, … for removal services. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**US is modeled globally – any other actor ensures failure**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Harris 2k** (Paul G. Harris -- The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy – page 4, September 2000)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__The U____nited States …throughout the world.__ </span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Only the US has the influence to mobilize global solutions.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Ivanova* and Esty** in 8 -**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *Assistant Professor of Government and Environmental Policy at The College of William and Mary and the Director of the Global Environmental Governance Project at the Yale Center for Environmental Law and Policy, and </span>**Hillhouse Professor of Environmental Law and Policy at Yale University (2008. “ Reclaiming U.S. Leadership in Global Environmental Governance ” Vol 28 No. 2. http://mxivan.people.wm.edu/Ivanova&Esty-SAIS%20Review-2008.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__contend, moreover, that …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">entanglements and international</span></span>




<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EDDE is real and solves space debris- the propulsion technology has already been demonstrated</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pearson et al 10</span>** (Carroll & Levin. Star Technology and Research. International Aeronautical Congress. “Active Debris Removal” http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The most near-term </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span>__** payload is released.</span>



====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Alta**</span>==== 
=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Collisions**</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Contention 1: Collisions** </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Collapse is inevitable in the status quo --- insufficient measures and cascade effect**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Ansdell ’10** [Megan – Graduate student in International Science and Technology Policy at GWU Elliott School of International Affairs, focusing in space policy. Princeton University Journal of Public and International Affairs. Spring. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]</span> “Active Space Debris Removal”]</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the probability …</span> __from orbit__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” (Johnson 2009a, 2).</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**We’ve reached the tipping point— risk of collisions snowballing is uniquely high**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Gilbert 9/5** [Dave Gilbert, September 5, 2011, “Space debris threat 'at tipping point'”, CNN, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cnn.com/2011/09/05/tech/space-debris/index.html]]</span>, DMintz]</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Satellite failures could … place__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," said Massey. </span></span>




<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Must act now to preserve LEO usability</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pearson et al 10</span>**(Carroll & Levin. Star Technology and Research. International Aeronautical Congress. “Active Debris Removal” http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The NASA Orbital …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">for hundreds of years</span>__**2</span>



<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically, large debris is a major threat </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foust 9</span>**</span> (Jeff. July 27. Editor & Publisher, Space Review. http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1427/1)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The key</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> for … large-large collisions</span>**</span>.”</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Space debris collapses space assets --- 2 internal links:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**1. knocks down satellites**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Bates 10** (Claire Bates, May 27, 2010, “ Space junk threatens 'chain reaction' that could destroy communications on Earth”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1281775/Space-junk-threatens-cause-chain-reaction-wipe-communications-Earth.html#ixzz1T8E0T5U8http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1281775/Space-junk-threatens-cause-chain-reaction-wipe-communications-Earth.html|http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1281775/Space-junk-threatens-cause-chain-reaction-wipe-communications-Earth.html#ixzz1T8E0T5U8http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1281775/Space-junk-threatens-cause-chain-reaction-wipe-communications-Earth.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__There is so … protect the public interest.__</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**2. blocks communication signals**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Jaggard 10 – National Geographic**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Victoria Jaggard, National Geographic News Writer, 3-28-2010, “Tiny Solar Sail Pitched to Clean Up Space Junk,” National Geographic, http://newswatch.nationalgeographic.com/2010/03/28/tiny_solar_sail_pitched_to_cle/</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Collisions__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with even …</span> __surrounded by junk__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**We’ll isolate several scenarios:**</span>


======<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Miscalc </span>**</span>====== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Scenario 1 : Miscalculation**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Space Debris will cause an accidental WWIII**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Reynolds 89** (Glenn Harlan, Professor of Law, technology and law expert, writes for the Northwestern University Law Review, the Harvard Journal of Law and Technology, Law and Policy in International Business, Jurimetrics, and the High Technology Law Journal, “Outer Space: Problems of Law and Policy”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Not only does … d__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">uring time of crisis." </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Losing visibility causes accidental launch**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bergmann 10 (Max, September 15, pg. http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/09/conservatives_newstart.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The danger from …maintain nuclear stability.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">This scenario outweighs ---</span>**</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">**a) perception based - collisions would inspire mistrust that escalates** </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white;">**Coffelt, ‘5** (Christopher A. Coffelt, US Airforce Colonel, space operator, “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95 </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/]]</span><span style="background-color: white;">)</span></span>




<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Those that operate … beginning to occur.</span>






<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**b) magnitude – US-Russia war outweighs**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Bostrom 2**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nick, PhD, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__A much greater …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the 21st century.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**c) time frame - e****xtinction happens in thirty minutes**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Mintz, 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – writer for the American Prospect (Morton, February 26, “Two Minutes to Launch,” The American Prospect, </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Hair-trigger alert__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">by checklist, by rote.” </span></span>

======<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Economy</span>**</span>====== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Scenario 2: The Economy**</span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Two Internal Links: </span>**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">1. Financial industry - </span>****GPS is key to the financial industry**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Lord 5**, Lance W. "Why America Needs Space: The Prerequisites for Success." High Frontier Journal. Vol. 2, No. 1 (September 2005): 2-3.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">For many Americans, the … about 30 years.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**The financial industry is key to the rest of the economy**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Congressional EMP Commission, 04**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Dr. John S. Foster, Jr. Mr. Earl Gjelde Dr. William R. Graham (Chairman) Dr. Robert J. Hermann Mr. Henry (Hank) M. Kluepfel GEN Richard L. Lawson, USAF (Ret.) Dr. Gordon K. Soper Dr. Lowell L. Wood, Jr. Dr. Joan B. Woodard, Report of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack Volume 1: Executive Report,</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBQQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.empcommission.org%2Fdocs%2Fempc_exec_rpt.pdf&rct=j&q=Congressional%20EMP%20Commission&ei=cjt1TdfaJtK3tgfbrpSEDw&usg=AFQjCNEERJCd0cHbfWtuQr8FqRGPZ-CcMg&sig2=i1qoZKZiPK8O69qYi7jX4g&cad=rja Accessed 3/7/11 JCP]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Virtually all American **…** critical financial markets.__</span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">2. GPS is vital to economic leadership, innovation, jobs and R&D </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Pham, 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> – Economics Ph.D. @ George Washington University – Nam D., June, “The Economic Benefits of Commercial GPS Use in the U.S. and The Costs of Potential Disruption” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.saveourgps.org/pdf/GPS-Report-June-22-2011.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">The commercial stakes …</span>__<span style="background-color: white;">or military users. </span>__</span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Its try or die --- just one collision will cause enough panic to destroy the market </span>**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Space Daily, ‘9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (August 31, 2009, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Space_Debris_Problem_Solved_999.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, Space Daily)</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Upper stages must …</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">calculable</span>__**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">. </span>____<span style="background-color: white;">This is scary!</span>__</span>







<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">we control escalation --- effects are felt globally </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [ Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D., project supervisors at Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,”</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Fifty years after …</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">throughout multiple nations.</span>__**</span>









<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">triggers multiple scenarios for extinction </span>**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Harris and Burrows,’9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [Mathew Harris //Counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council// and Jennifer Burrows //Member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit//, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">.]</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the … </span>__dog-eat-dog world.__</span>

======<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Disease**</span>====== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Scenario 3: pandemics**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Disease increasing now – causes systemic deaths**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Hamburg et al 8** (Senior Scientist at the Nuclear Threat Initiative, MD—AND—Jeffrey Levi, PhD, Associate Professor in the Department of Health Policy at George Washington U—AND—Kimberly Elliot, MA—AND—Lynora Williams, MA. Peer-Reviewed by: Edward A. Belongia, MD, director of the Epidemiology Research Center at Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation—AND—Luciana L. Borio, MD, senior associate at the biosecurity center at Pittsburgh U—AND—Robert J. Guidos, JD, Director, Public Policy & Government Relations at the Infectious Diseases Society of America—AND—James Hughes, MD, Professor of Medicine and Public Health at Emory, Former Director of the National Centers of Infectious Diseases; U.S.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention—AND—Kathleen F. Gensheimer, MD, MPH, Maine HHS epidemiologist—AND—James Lawler, MD, MPH, FACP, CDR MC U.S. Navy; Chief Medical Officer—AND—Ruth Lynfield, MD, Minnesota health dept epidemiologist—AND—Michael Mair, MPH, Associate at the Pittsburgh U center for Biosecurity (Margaret A., October 2008, Germs Go Global: WHY EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASES ARE A THREAT TO AMERICA, http://healthyamericans.org/assets/files/GermsGoGlobal.pdf, MBIBAS)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Despite remarkable breakthroughs … has significant interests__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.”3 </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Satellites solve epidemics.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ford et. al 11</span> (Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine; University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates), “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, [[@http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538]], MBIBAS)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__The scientific community …of virus transmission__ (26).</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Satellite imaging allows us to see where diseases start in nature – creates preventative measures**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Hamburg et al 8** (Senior Scientist at the Nuclear Threat Initiative, MD—AND—Jeffrey Levi, PhD, Associate Professor in the Department of Health Policy at George Washington U—AND—Kimberly Elliot, MA—AND—Lynora Williams, MA. Peer-Reviewed by: Edward A. Belongia, MD, director of the Epidemiology Research Center at Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation—AND—Luciana L. Borio, MD, senior associate at the biosecurity center at Pittsburgh U—AND—Robert J. Guidos, JD, Director, Public Policy & Government Relations at the Infectious Diseases Society of America—AND—James Hughes, MD, Professor of Medicine and Public Health at Emory, Former Director of the National Centers of Infectious Diseases; U.S.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention—AND—Kathleen F. Gensheimer, MD, MPH, Maine HHS epidemiologist—AND—James Lawler, MD, MPH, FACP, CDR MC U.S. Navy; Chief Medical Officer—AND—Ruth Lynfield, MD, Minnesota health dept epidemiologist—AND—Michael Mair, MPH, Associate at the Pittsburgh U center for Biosecurity (Margaret A., October 2008, Germs Go Global: WHY EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASES ARE A THREAT TO AMERICA, http://healthyamericans.org/assets/files/GermsGoGlobal.pdf, MBIBAS)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Geographers____are____contributing …__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> predict an outbreak.105 </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Disease spread causes extinction.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Zimmerman 96** [Barry and David, both have M.S. degrees from Long Island University, Killer Germs p 132]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Then came AIDS……__is the virus____”__ (//A Dancing Matrix//, by Robin Marantz Hening).</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Plan Text**</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Text:** The United States Department of Defense should substantially decrease space debris through the use of ElectroDynamic Debris Eliminators.</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Solvency**</span>===== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Contention Two: Solvency</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EDDE solves debris</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wall 11</span>__** (Mike. 9/2. Science writer, Idaho National Laboratory. Ph.D. [[http://www.space.com/12819-space-junk-cleanup-giant-net-tether.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A small fleet of … reduce the risk</span>__**."</span>


<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Department of Defense is key</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dinerman 9</span>**</span> (Taylor. May 4. [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1365/1]])</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">What is required …</span>**nebulous **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">international consortium</span>**.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**No international counterplans— only the US solves**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Megan **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ansdell, ’10</span>** – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]].</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As previously discussed, … for removal services. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**US is modeled globally – any other actor ensures failure**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Harris 2k** (Paul G. Harris -- The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy – page 4, September 2000)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__The U____nited States …throughout the world.__ </span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Only the US has the influence to mobilize global solutions.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Ivanova* and Esty** in 8 -**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *Assistant Professor of Government and Environmental Policy at The College of William and Mary and the Director of the Global Environmental Governance Project at the Yale Center for Environmental Law and Policy, and </span>**Hillhouse Professor of Environmental Law and Policy at Yale University (2008. “ Reclaiming U.S. Leadership in Global Environmental Governance ” Vol 28 No. 2. http://mxivan.people.wm.edu/Ivanova&Esty-SAIS%20Review-2008.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__contend, moreover, that …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">entanglements and international</span></span>



<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EDDE is real and solves space debris- the propulsion technology has already been demonstrated</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pearson et al 10</span>** (Carroll & Levin. Star Technology and Research. International Aeronautical Congress. “Active Debris Removal” http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The most near-term </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span>__** payload is released.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Glenbrooks** </span>==== 
=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Collisions**</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Contention 1: Collisions**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Collapse is inevitable in the status quo --- insufficient measures and cascade effect**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Ansdell ’10** [Megan – Graduate student in International Science and Technology Policy at GWU Elliott School of International Affairs, focusing in space policy. Princeton University Journal of Public and International Affairs. Spring. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]</span> “Active Space Debris Removal”]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the probability …</span> __from orbit__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” (Johnson 2009a, 2).</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**We’ve reached the tipping point— risk of collisions snowballing is uniquely high**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Gilbert 9/5** [Dave Gilbert, September 5, 2011, “Space debris threat 'at tipping point'”, CNN, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cnn.com/2011/09/05/tech/space-debris/index.html]]</span>, DMintz]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Satellite failures could…place__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," said Massey. </span></span>



<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Must act now to preserve LEO usability</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pearson et al 10</span>**(Carroll & Levin. Star Technology and Research. International Aeronautical Congress. “Active Debris Removal” http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The NASA Orbital …**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">hundreds of years</span>__**2</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Probability is high --- chain reactions will escalate AND status quo mitigation isn’t sufficient to solve**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Wright ‘7** [David Wright is codirector and senior scientist with the global security program of the Union of Concerned Scientists in Cambridge, Massachusetts. October 2007 //Physics Today// pp 35-40 “Space debris”]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__If the debris …the debris population.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**We’ll isolate several scenarios:**</span>


======<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Miscalculation**</span>====== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Scenario 1 : Miscalculation**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Space Debris will cause an accidental WWIII**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Reynolds 89** (Glenn Harlan, Professor of Law, technology and law expert, writes for the Northwestern University Law Review, the Harvard Journal of Law and Technology, Law and Policy in International Business, Jurimetrics, and the High Technology Law Journal, “Outer Space: Problems of Law and Policy”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Not only does … junk d__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">uring time of crisis." </span></span>



<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Space debris risks false alarms and Russian miscalc****—the impact is all out nuclear war.** </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lewis 4 – Postdoctoral Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Jeffrey, Worked In the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, What if Space Were Weaponized? July, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is the …</span> __to operate safely__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">This scenario outweighs ---</span>**</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">**a) perception based - collisions would inspire mistrust that escalates** </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white;">**Coffelt, ‘5** (Christopher A. Coffelt, US Airforce Colonel, space operator, “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95 </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/]]</span><span style="background-color: white;">)</span></span>




<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Those that operate … beginning to occur.</span>






<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**b) magnitude – US-Russia war outweighs**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Bostrom 2**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nick, PhD, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__A much greater…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the 21st century.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**c) time frame - e****xtinction happens in thirty minutes**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Mintz, 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – writer for the American Prospect (Morton, February 26, “Two Minutes to Launch,” The American Prospect, </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Hair-trigger alert____…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">checklist, by rote.” </span></span>

======<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Economy</span>**</span>====== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Scenario 2: The Economy**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Two Internal Links: </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">1. Financial industry - </span>****GPS is key to the financial industry**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Lord 5**, Lance W. "Why America Needs Space: The Prerequisites for Success." High Frontier Journal. Vol. 2, No. 1 (September 2005): 2-3.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">For many Americans, … in time about 30 years.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**The financial industry is key to the rest of the economy**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Congressional EMP Commission, 04**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Dr. John S. Foster, Jr. Mr. Earl Gjelde Dr. William R. Graham (Chairman) Dr. Robert J. Hermann Mr. Henry (Hank) M. Kluepfel GEN Richard L. Lawson, USAF (Ret.) Dr. Gordon K. Soper Dr. Lowell L. Wood, Jr. Dr. Joan B. Woodard, Report of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack Volume 1: Executive Report,</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBQQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.empcommission.org%2Fdocs%2Fempc_exec_rpt.pdf&rct=j&q=Congressional%20EMP%20Commission&ei=cjt1TdfaJtK3tgfbrpSEDw&usg=AFQjCNEERJCd0cHbfWtuQr8FqRGPZ-CcMg&sig2=i1qoZKZiPK8O69qYi7jX4g&cad=rja Accessed 3/7/11 JCP]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Virtually all American**…**critical financial markets.__</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">2. GPS is vital to economic leadership, innovation, jobs and R&D </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Pham, 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> – Economics Ph.D. @ George Washington University – Nam D., June, “The Economic Benefits of Commercial GPS Use in the U.S. and The Costs of Potential Disruption” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.saveourgps.org/pdf/GPS-Report-June-22-2011.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">The commercial stakes…</span>__<span style="background-color: white;">or military users. </span>__</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Its try or die --- just one collision will cause enough panic to destroy the market </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Space Daily, ‘9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (August 31, 2009, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Space_Debris_Problem_Solved_999.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, Space Daily)</span></span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Upper stages must …</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="background-color: white;">This is scary!</span>__</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">we control escalation --- effects are felt globally </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [ Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D., project supervisors at Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,”</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Fifty years after …</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">throughout multiple nations.</span>__**</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">triggers multiple scenarios for extinction </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Harris and Burrows,’9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [Mathew Harris //Counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council// and Jennifer Burrows //Member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit//, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">.]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the … </span>__dog-eat-dog world.__</span>


======<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Pandemics**</span>====== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Disease increasing now – causes systemic deaths**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Hamburg et al 8** (Senior Scientist at the Nuclear Threat Initiative, MD—AND—Jeffrey Levi, PhD, Associate Professor in the Department of Health Policy at George Washington U—AND—Kimberly Elliot, MA—AND—Lynora Williams, MA. Peer-Reviewed by: Edward A. Belongia, MD, director of the Epidemiology Research Center at Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation—AND—Luciana L. Borio, MD, senior associate at the biosecurity center at Pittsburgh U—AND—Robert J. Guidos, JD, Director, Public Policy & Government Relations at the Infectious Diseases Society of America—AND—James Hughes, MD, Professor of Medicine and Public Health at Emory, Former Director of the National Centers of Infectious Diseases; U.S.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention—AND—Kathleen F. Gensheimer, MD, MPH, Maine HHS epidemiologist—AND—James Lawler, MD, MPH, FACP, CDR MC U.S. Navy; Chief Medical Officer—AND—Ruth Lynfield, MD, Minnesota health dept epidemiologist—AND—Michael Mair, MPH, Associate at the Pittsburgh U center for Biosecurity (Margaret A., October 2008, Germs Go Global: WHY EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASES ARE A THREAT TO AMERICA, http://healthyamericans.org/assets/files/GermsGoGlobal.pdf, MBIBAS)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Despite remarkable breakthroughs…has significant interests__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.”3 </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Satellites solve epidemics.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ford et. al 11</span> (Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine; University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates), “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, [[@http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538]], MBIBAS)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__The scientific community …of virus transmission__ (26).</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Satellite imaging allows us to see where diseases start in nature – creates preventative measures**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Hamburg et al 8** (Senior Scientist at the Nuclear Threat Initiative, MD—AND—Jeffrey Levi, PhD, Associate Professor in the Department of Health Policy at George Washington U—AND—Kimberly Elliot, MA—AND—Lynora Williams, MA. Peer-Reviewed by: Edward A. Belongia, MD, director of the Epidemiology Research Center at Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation—AND—Luciana L. Borio, MD, senior associate at the biosecurity center at Pittsburgh U—AND—Robert J. Guidos, JD, Director, Public Policy & Government Relations at the Infectious Diseases Society of America—AND—James Hughes, MD, Professor of Medicine and Public Health at Emory, Former Director of the National Centers of Infectious Diseases; U.S.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention—AND—Kathleen F. Gensheimer, MD, MPH, Maine HHS epidemiologist—AND—James Lawler, MD, MPH, FACP, CDR MC U.S. Navy; Chief Medical Officer—AND—Ruth Lynfield, MD, Minnesota health dept epidemiologist—AND—Michael Mair, MPH, Associate at the Pittsburgh U center for Biosecurity (Margaret A., October 2008, Germs Go Global: WHY EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASES ARE A THREAT TO AMERICA, http://healthyamericans.org/assets/files/GermsGoGlobal.pdf, MBIBAS)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Geographers____are____contributing…__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> predict an outbreak.105 </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Disease spread causes extinction.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Zimmerman 96** [Barry and David, both have M.S. degrees from Long Island University, Killer Germs p 132]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Then came AIDS… __the planet is the virus____”__</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Plan Text**</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Text:** The United States Department of Defense should decrease space debris through the use of ElectroDynamic Debris Eliminators.</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Solvency**</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Contention Two: Solvency</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EDDE solves large debris</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wall 11</span>__** (Mike. 9/2. Science writer, Idaho National Laboratory. Ph.D. [[http://www.space.com/12819-space-junk-cleanup-giant-net-tether.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A small fleet …reduce the risk</span>__**."</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solving large debris is key</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foust 9</span>**</span> (Jeff. July 27. Editor & Publisher, Space Review. http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1427/1)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The key</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> for … large-large collisions</span>**</span>.”</span>


<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Department of Defense is key</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dinerman 9</span>**</span> (Taylor. May 4. [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1365/1]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">What is required …</span>**nebulous **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">international consortium</span>**.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**No international counterplans— only the US solves**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Megan **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ansdell, ’10</span>** – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]].</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As previously discussed,…for removal services. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**US is modeled globally – any other actor ensures failure**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Harris 2k** (Paul G. Harris -- The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy – page 4, September 2000)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__The U____nited States … throughout the world.__ </span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Only the US has the influence to mobilize global solutions.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Ivanova* and Esty** in 8 -**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *Assistant Professor of Government and Environmental Policy at The College of William and Mary and the Director of the Global Environmental Governance Project at the Yale Center for Environmental Law and Policy, and </span>**Hillhouse Professor of Environmental Law and Policy at Yale University (2008. “ Reclaiming U.S. Leadership in Global Environmental Governance ” Vol 28 No. 2. http://mxivan.people.wm.edu/Ivanova&Esty-SAIS%20Review-2008.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__contend, moreover, that …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">entanglements and international</span></span>



<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EDDE is real and solves space debris- the propulsion technology has already been demonstrated</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pearson et al 10</span>** (Carroll & Levin. Star Technology and Research. International Aeronautical Congress. “Active Debris Removal” http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The most near-term</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">….</span>__** payload is released.</span>



====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**University of Michigan Tournament**</span>==== 

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Collisions </span>**</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contention 1: Collisions</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Collapse is inevitable in the status quo --- insufficient measures and cascade effect</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ansdell ’10</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Megan – Graduate student in International Science and Technology Policy at GWU Elliott School of International Affairs, focusing in space policy. Princeton University Journal of Public and International Affairs. Spring.[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]“Active Space Debris Removal”]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the probability…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">stages from orbit</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” (Johnson 2009a, 2).</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We’ve reached the tipping point— risk of collisions snowballing is uniquely high</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Gilbert 9/5</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Dave Gilbert, September 5, 2011, “Space debris threat 'at tipping point'”, CNN,[[http://www.cnn.com/2011/09/05/tech/space-debris/index.html]], DMintz]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Satellite failures could …place</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," said Massey.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Probability is high --- chain reactions will escalate AND status quo mitigation isn’t sufficient to solve</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wright ‘7</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[David Wright is codirector and senior scientist with the global security program of the Union of Concerned Scientists in Cambridge, Massachusetts. October 2007//Physics Today//pp 35-40 “Space debris”]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If the debris …the debris population.</span>__</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We’ll isolate several scenarios:</span>**</span>

======<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Miscalculation </span>**</span>====== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Scenario 1 : Miscalculation</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space Debris will cause an accidental WWIII</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Reynolds 89</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Glenn Harlan, Professor of Law, technology and law expert, writes for the Northwestern University Law Review, the Harvard Journal of Law and Technology, Law and Policy in International Business, Jurimetrics, and the High Technology Law Journal, “Outer Space: Problems of Law and Policy”)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Not only does …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> time of crisis."</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris risks false alarms and Russian miscalc</span>—the impact is all out nuclear war.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Lewis 4 – Postdoctoral Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jeffrey, Worked In the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, What if Space Were Weaponized? July,[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is the …</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> to operate safely</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">This scenario outweighs ---</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">a) perception based - collisions would inspire mistrust that escalates</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Coffelt, ‘5</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> (Christopher A. Coffelt, US Airforce Colonel, space operator, “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [[http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/]])</span></span>




<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Those that operate …. beginning to occur.</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">b) magnitude – US-Russia war outweighs</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bostrom 2</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nick, PhD, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">A much greater….</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the 21st century.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">c) time frame - extinction happens in thirty minutes</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mintz, 1</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – writer for the American Prospect (Morton, February 26, “Two Minutes to Launch,” The American Prospect,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch|__http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch__]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hair-trigger alert</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">checklist, by rote.”</span></span>

======<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economy</span>**</span>====== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Scenario 2: The Economy</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Two Internal Links:</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">1. Financial industry -</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">GPS is key to the financial industry</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lord 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Lance W. "Why America Needs Space: The Prerequisites for Success." High Frontier Journal. Vol. 2, No. 1 (September 2005): 2-3.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">For many Americans, the …. about 30 years.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The financial industry is key to the rest of the economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Congressional EMP Commission, 04[Dr. John S. Foster, Jr. Mr. Earl Gjelde Dr. William R. Graham (Chairman) Dr. Robert J. Hermann Mr. Henry (Hank) M. Kluepfel GEN Richard L. Lawson, USAF (Ret.) Dr. Gordon K. Soper Dr. Lowell L. Wood, Jr. Dr. Joan B. Woodard, Report of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack Volume 1: Executive Report,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBQQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.empcommission.org%2Fdocs%2Fempc_exec_rpt.pdf&rct=j&q=Congressional%20EMP%20Commission&ei=cjt1TdfaJtK3tgfbrpSEDw&usg=AFQjCNEERJCd0cHbfWtuQr8FqRGPZ-CcMg&sig2=i1qoZKZiPK8O69qYi7jX4g&cad=rja Accessed 3/7/11 JCP]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Virtually all American </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> critical financial markets.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">2. GPS is vital to economic leadership, innovation, jobs and R&D</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Pham, 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> – Economics Ph.D. @ George Washington University – Nam D., June, “The Economic Benefits of Commercial GPS Use in the U.S. and The Costs of Potential Disruption”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.saveourgps.org/pdf/GPS-Report-June-22-2011.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">The commercial stakes …</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">or military users.</span>__</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Its try or die --- just one collision will cause enough panic to destroy the market</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Space Daily, ‘9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (August 31, 2009,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Space_Debris_Problem_Solved_999.html]]</span>, Space Daily)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Upper stages must…</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">calculable</span>__**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>____<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">This is scary!</span>__</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">we control escalation --- effects are felt globally</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [ Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D.,</span>**project supervisors at Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,”**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span>**]**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Fifty years after …</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">throughout multiple nations.</span>__**</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">triggers multiple scenarios for extinction</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Harris and Burrows,’9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [Mathew Harris//Counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council//and Jennifer Burrows//Member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit//, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]</span>.]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">dog-eat-dog world.</span>__</span>




======<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pandemics </span>**</span>====== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Scenario 3: pandemics</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Disease increasing now – causes systemic deaths</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">Hamburg et al 8</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> (Senior Scientist at the Nuclear Threat Initiative, MD—AND—Jeffrey Levi, PhD, Associate Professor in the Department of Health Policy at George Washington U—AND—Kimberly Elliot, MA—AND—Lynora Williams, MA. Peer-Reviewed by: Edward A. Belongia, MD, director of the Epidemiology Research Center at Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation—AND—Luciana L. Borio, MD, senior associate at the biosecurity center at Pittsburgh U—AND—Robert J. Guidos, JD, Director, Public Policy & Government Relations at the Infectious Diseases Society of America—AND—James Hughes, MD, Professor of Medicine and Public Health at Emory, Former Director of the National Centers of Infectious Diseases; U.S.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention—AND—Kathleen F. Gensheimer, MD, MPH, Maine HHS epidemiologist—AND—James Lawler, MD, MPH, FACP, CDR MC U.S. Navy; Chief Medical Officer—AND—Ruth Lynfield, MD, Minnesota health dept epidemiologist—AND—Michael Mair, MPH, Associate at the Pittsburgh U center for Biosecurity (Margaret A., October 2008, Germs Go Global: WHY EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASES ARE A THREAT TO AMERICA,</span><span style="color: #0065cc; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://healthyamericans.org/assets/files/GermsGoGlobal.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, MBIBAS)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Despite remarkable breakthroughs…</span>____<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">has significant interests</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt;">.”3</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Satellites solve epidemics.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Ford et. al 11</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> (Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine; University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates), “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal,</span><span style="color: #0065cc; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, MBIBAS)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">The scientific community …. of</span>____<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">virus</span>____<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">transmission</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> (26).</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Satellite imaging allows us to see where diseases start in nature – creates preventative measures</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">Hamburg et al 8</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> (Senior Scientist at the Nuclear Threat Initiative, MD—AND—Jeffrey Levi, PhD, Associate Professor in the Department of Health Policy at George Washington U—AND—Kimberly Elliot, MA—AND—Lynora Williams, MA. Peer-Reviewed by: Edward A. Belongia, MD, director of the Epidemiology Research Center at Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation—AND—Luciana L. Borio, MD, senior associate at the biosecurity center at Pittsburgh U—AND—Robert J. Guidos, JD, Director, Public Policy & Government Relations at the Infectious Diseases Society of America—AND—James Hughes, MD, Professor of Medicine and Public Health at Emory, Former Director of the National Centers of Infectious Diseases; U.S.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention—AND—Kathleen F. Gensheimer, MD, MPH, Maine HHS epidemiologist—AND—James Lawler, MD, MPH, FACP, CDR MC U.S. Navy; Chief Medical Officer—AND—Ruth Lynfield, MD, Minnesota health dept epidemiologist—AND—Michael Mair, MPH, Associate at the Pittsburgh U center for Biosecurity (Margaret A., October 2008, Germs Go Global: WHY EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASES ARE A THREAT TO AMERICA,</span><span style="color: #0065cc; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://healthyamericans.org/assets/files/GermsGoGlobal.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, MBIBAS)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">Geographers</span>____<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">are</span>____<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">contributing</span>____<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt;">predict an outbreak.105</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Disease spread causes extinction.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">Zimmerman 96</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> [Barry and David, both have M.S. degrees from Long Island University, Killer Germs p 132]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Then came AIDS……</span>__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">planet is the virus</span>____<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">”</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> (//A Dancing Matrix//, by Robin Marantz Hening).</span></span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**we don’t endorse gendered language.**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Megan Ansdell, Graduate Student @ GWU, 2010, “Active Space Debris Removal,” Princeton Publications, http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Furthermore,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">satellite-enabled military …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">today’s geopolitical environment.</span>**</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Plan</span>**</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Text:**The United States federal government should decrease space debris through the use of ground-based lasers.**</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Solvency </span>**</span>===== 

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention Two: Solvency</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">A single laser solves --- timeframe is just 3 years</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">The Economist, ‘10</span>**(“Scientists are increasingly worried about the amount of debris orbiting the Earth” Aug 19th 2010****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.economist.com/node/16843825?story_id=16843825&fsrc=rss]])</span>**</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">The real threat …</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">in three years.</span>__</span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">no solvency takeouts - the plan is inexpensive and technically feasible</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span>**– Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D.****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> Center,”</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">The Orion study ….</span>__****<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">an international project.” 184</span>**</span>





<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Targeting small debris is best – large debris can be tracked and avoided</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Megan</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> Ansdell, ’10**[Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,”**</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">The most dangerous</span>__****__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">…relatively simple shielding</span>__****<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(Wright 2007, 36).</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">No international cp’s --- only the US solves</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Megan</span>****<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ansdell, ’10</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,”</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]].</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As previously discussed, … for removal services.</span>**</span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">no weaponization DA – lasers aren’t perceived as weapons</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D.**NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,”[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">Ground-based lasers</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (….</span>__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">the device location.</span>__</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**University of Michigan RR**</span>==== 

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Collisions**</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Contention 1: Collisions**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Collapse is inevitable in the status quo --- insufficient measures and cascade effect </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ansdell ’10</span>[Megan – Graduate student in International Science and Technology Policy at GWU Elliott School of International Affairs, focusing in space policy. Princeton University Journal of Public and International Affairs. Spring. [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]] “Active Space Debris Removal”]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the probability…</span>__stages from orbit__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” (Johnson 2009a, 2).</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**We’ve reached the tipping point— risk of collisions snowballing is uniquely high**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Gilbert 9/5** [Dave Gilbert, September 5, 2011, “Space debris threat 'at tipping point'”, CNN, [[http://www.cnn.com/2011/09/05/tech/space-debris/index.html]], DMintz]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Satellite failures could …place__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," said Massey. </span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Probability is high --- chain reactions will escalate AND status quo mitigation isn’t sufficient to solve </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wright ‘7 </span>[David Wright is codirector and senior scientist with the global security program of the Union of Concerned Scientists in Cambridge, Massachusetts. October 2007 //Physics Today// pp 35-40 “Space debris”]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__If the debris …the debris population.__</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**We’ll isolate several scenarios:**</span>

======<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Miscalculation**</span>====== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Scenario 1 : Miscalculation**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Space Debris will cause an accidental WWIII**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Reynolds 89** (Glenn Harlan, Professor of Law, technology and law expert, writes for the Northwestern University Law Review, the Harvard Journal of Law and Technology, Law and Policy in International Business, Jurimetrics, and the High Technology Law Journal, “Outer Space: Problems of Law and Policy”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Not only does …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> time of crisis." </span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white;">**Space debris risks false alarms and Russian miscalc**</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="background-color: white;">**—the impact is all out nuclear war.** </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Lewis 4 – Postdoctoral Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Jeffrey, Worked In the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, What if Space Were Weaponized? July, [[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is the …</span> to operate safely<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">This scenario outweighs ---</span>**</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">**a) perception based - collisions would inspire mistrust that escalates** </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white;">**Coffelt, ‘5** (Christopher A. Coffelt, US Airforce Colonel, space operator, “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95</span> [[http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/]]<span style="background-color: white;">)</span></span>




<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Those that operate …. beginning to occur.</span>






<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">b) magnitude – US-Russia war outweighs </span>
<span class="cite" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bostrom 2</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nick, PhD, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A much greater….<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the 21st century.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**c) time frame - e****xtinction happens in thirty minutes**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Mintz, 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – writer for the American Prospect (Morton, February 26, “Two Minutes to Launch,” The American Prospect, </span>[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch|__http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Hair-trigger alert__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">checklist, by rote.” </span></span>


======<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Economy**</span>====== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Scenario 2: The Economy**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Two Internal Links: </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">1. Financial industry - </span>****GPS is key to the financial industry**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Lord 5**, Lance W. "Why America Needs Space: The Prerequisites for Success." High Frontier Journal. Vol. 2, No. 1 (September 2005): 2-3.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">For many Americans, the …. about 30 years.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The financial industry is key to the rest of the economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Congressional EMP Commission, 04<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Dr. John S. Foster, Jr. Mr. Earl Gjelde Dr. William R. Graham (Chairman) Dr. Robert J. Hermann Mr. Henry (Hank) M. Kluepfel GEN Richard L. Lawson, USAF (Ret.) Dr. Gordon K. Soper Dr. Lowell L. Wood, Jr. Dr. Joan B. Woodard, Report of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack Volume 1: Executive Report,</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBQQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.empcommission.org%2Fdocs%2Fempc_exec_rpt.pdf&rct=j&q=Congressional%20EMP%20Commission&ei=cjt1TdfaJtK3tgfbrpSEDw&usg=AFQjCNEERJCd0cHbfWtuQr8FqRGPZ-CcMg&sig2=i1qoZKZiPK8O69qYi7jX4g&cad=rja Accessed 3/7/11 JCP]</span>
<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Virtually all American **…** critical financial markets.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">2. GPS is vital to economic leadership, innovation, jobs and R&D </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Pham, 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> – Economics Ph.D. @ George Washington University – Nam D., June, “The Economic Benefits of Commercial GPS Use in the U.S. and The Costs of Potential Disruption” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.saveourgps.org/pdf/GPS-Report-June-22-2011.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">The commercial stakes …</span>__<span style="background-color: white;"> or military users. </span>__</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Its try or die --- just one collision will cause enough panic to destroy the market </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Space Daily, ‘9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (August 31, 2009, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Space_Debris_Problem_Solved_999.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, Space Daily)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Upper stages must…</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">calculable</span>__**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">. </span>____<span style="background-color: white;">This is scary!</span>__</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">we control escalation --- effects are felt globally </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [ Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D., </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">project supervisors at Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,”</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Fifty years after …</span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">throughout multiple nations.</span>__**</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">triggers multiple scenarios for extinction </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Harris and Burrows,’9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [Mathew Harris //Counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council// and Jennifer Burrows //Member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit//, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">.]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the …. </span>__dog-eat-dog world.__</span>




======<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Hegemony**</span>====== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Scenario 3: Hegemony**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Space debris will collapse hegemony --- 2 internal links**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**1. hard power - Space assets key to military effectiveness**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Imburgia 11 – Lt. Col. and Judge Advocate in Air Force</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Joseph S. Imburgia, J.D., University of Tennessee College of Law (2002); LL.M., The Judge Advocate General’s Legal Center & School, U.S. Army, Charlottesville, Va. (2009)), a Judge Advocate in the United States Air Force and is presently assigned as a legal exchange officer to the Directorate of Operations and International Law, Defence Legal, Australian Defence Force, Canberra, Australia, 2011, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Scholar</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">These gloomy </span>prognostications …<span style="font-size: 8pt;">also</span> be vital<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2. Communication**superiority --- satellites are the lifeline of our military** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8** Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,”[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination|__http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination__]].</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__U.S. News and … is not optional.__</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**collapse would spill over to all branches of our military – kills readiness** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8 – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination|__http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination__]].</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">General Kevin P. …</span> in the field<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” 6 </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Heg collapse causes nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Kagan, 7** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, //Policy Review,// August/Sept, “End of Dreams, Return of History”)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">If </span>__the world ….__ __an easier path__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Heg deters and de-escalates conflict, fosters trade, and proliferates cooperative relationships—we control empirics**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Zhang and Shi 11** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">- * a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C. **Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry”** </span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/,bs]])</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">This does not …</span>__unrivalled US primacy.__** </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">even if hegemony is inevitable – satellites lower the cost of warfighting and decreases collateral damage</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ansdell 10 – PhD Candidate @ GWU</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Megan Ansdell, Graduate Student @ GWU, 2010, “Active Space Debris Removal,” Princeton Publications, http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Furthermore, </span>satellite-enabled military …<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> today’s geopolitical environment.</span>**</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Plan**</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: **The United States federal government should decrease space debris through the use of ground-based lasers.**</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Solvency**</span>===== 
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention Two: Solvency</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">A single laser solves --- timeframe is just 3 years</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white;">The Economist, ‘10</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> (“Scientists are increasingly worried about the amount of debris orbiting the Earth” Aug 19th 2010 </span>[[http://www.economist.com/node/16843825?story_id=16843825&fsrc=rss]]<span style="background-color: white;">) </span>**</span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="background-color: white;">The real threat … </span>__**__in three years.__</span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">no solvency takeouts - the plan is inexpensive and technically feasible </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. </span>NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy**<span style="background-color: white;"> Center,”</span>**[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]**<span style="background-color: white;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="background-color: white;">The Orion study ….</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> an international project.” 184 </span>**</span>





<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Targeting small debris is best – large debris can be tracked and avoided</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="background-color: white;">**Megan** Ansdell, ’10 **[Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,”**</span> **[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]**<span style="background-color: white;">]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">The most dangerous </span>____<span style="background-color: white;">…relatively simple shielding</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Wright 2007, 36). </span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">No international cp’s --- only the US solves </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Megan <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ansdell, ’10</span> – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]].** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As previously discussed, … for removal services. </span>**</span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">no weaponization DA – lasers aren’t perceived as weapons</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8**– Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D.**NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="background-color: aqua;">Ground-based lasers</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (….</span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;"> the device location.</span>__</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Add-Ons**</span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Asteroids</span>==== 

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Space Debris independently makes terrestrial vision and asteroid monitoring measures impossible**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="Underline">**U.S. Congress 90**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (September, U.S. Congress, Office of Technology Assessment, “Orbiting Debris: A Space Environmental”, pg.13-17, </span><span class="Underline">[[http://www.fas.org/ota/reports/9033.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Space debris can ….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">events (as of January 1990).48 </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Asteroids destroy all future humanity- magnitude necessitates action even if the probability is low**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Matheny 7- former associate at Oxford, MPJ from Hopkins**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Jason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Even if extinction … those that threaten 100%.__</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Coral Reefs</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Satellite imagery key to prevent coral bleaching from destroying coral reef ecosystems**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Robinson, 10(Ian, 2010, Discovering the Ocean from Space [electronic resource] The unique applications of satellite oceanography / by Ian S. Robinson., BA and MA Mechanical Sciences, Cambridge University, PhD Engineering Magneto-hydrodynamics, University of Warwick, 1973, Higher and Senior Scientific Officer, Institute of Oceanographic Sciences, Bidston, Lecturer, senior lecturer and reader, University of Southampton Department of Oceanography, Head of Department of Oceanography, Professor, University of Southampton School of Ocean and Earth Science, Professorial Fellow, Ocean and Earth Science, University of Southampton, JPL) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">there is … marine environmental managers</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Coral reefs prevent extinction.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Philippine Daily Inquirer, 2002**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[“REEFS UNDER STRESS”, 12-10, L/N]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The artificial replacement …</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">planet</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">,"</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> she said.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Environmental Leadership</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Removing space debris is key to US environmental leadership**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baker ’89,</span> Howard A. Baker, University of Colorado Law Review, 1989. “Space Debris: Law and Policy in the United States” Vol. 60, Issue 1 (1989), pp. 55-90.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although not stated …</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in</span>__</span> __outer__ <span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">space</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**US environmental leadership key to softpower**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Walter ‘2 Norbet Walter, Chief economist of the German Bank, 1990-2009, 8/29/02</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__At__ <span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">present there…global environmental issues</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Soft power solves extinction**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Nye, 08** – created the theory of “soft power,” distinguished service professor and former dean of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, PhD in Political Science from Harvard [March 7, 2008, Joseph S. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye</span> Jr., “Security and Smart Power,” [[http://abs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/51/9/1351]]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Etzioni is correct that </span><span class="underline0">…</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">developing one for Iran.</span></span>







==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Asteroids</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1AC--Prestigious Nova Titan Invitational</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Inherency**</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Observation 1: Inherency</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The status quo is insufficient to solve asteroids</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bucknam and Gold in 08 [Mark and Robert “Survival” (00396338); Oct/Nov2008, Vol. 50 Issue 5, p141-156, 16p PN] [PHO - potentially hazardous object]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="underline0">Though </span>radar telescopes<span style="font-size: 8pt;">….hundred million dollars.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Specifically, funding isn’t enough</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">IRWIN I. SHAPIRO et al in 10</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">,( Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Chair FAITH VILAS, MMT Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, Vice Chair MICHAEL A’HEARN, University of Maryland, College Park, Vice Chair ANDREW F. CHENG, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory FRANK CULBERTSON, JR., Orbital Sciences Corporation DAVID C. JEWITT, University of California, Los Angeles STEPHEN MACKWELL, Lunar and Planetary Institute H. JAY MELOSH, Purdue University JOSEPH H. ROTHENBERG, Universal Space Network, //Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies Space Studies Board Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences//, __THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES PRESS__, </span>[[http://www.fas.harvard.edu/%7Eplanets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf|__http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~planets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf__]]<span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The second mandate<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span>during the past 5 years.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan: The United States Federal Government should fully fund and implement a space based infrared sensor in a Venus-like orbit for the purposes of asteroid detection.</span>


====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">An Asteroid Strike Would be Bad</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Contention 2: an asteroid strike would be bad</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**First, an asteroid strike is __coming now__ and will __destroy__ the planet**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shiga 2009</span>(David) (New Scientist; 9/26/2009, Vol. 203 Issue 2727, p30-33, 4p)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">They can strike <span class="underline0">…come to pass.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Asteroid impact is inevitable – you have an obligation to vote aff because its magnitude outweighs everything</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lawler in 2k7</span>, Andrew (__Discover__, //WHAT TO DO BEFORE THE ASTEROID STRIKES//, Nov2007, Vol. 28, Issue 1, Academic Search Premiere, accessed 6/27/2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__Amid fears about__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span>**__Indian Ocean tsunami__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Extinction outweighs – evaluate the magnitude of our scenario first**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**YUDKOWSKY 2006** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Three groups of ….the difference experimentally__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Independently outweighs nuclear war</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kunich 97</span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (Lieutenant Colonel John C., </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Staff Judge Advocate, 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base, Colorado, Air Force Law Review, 41 A.F. L. Rev. 119, accessed through Lexis, NB)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">If you were …</span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> megatons of TNT</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We’ll isolate specific extinction scenarios:</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Scenario 1 is ice age:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">An asteroid will cause an ice age</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Science Daily 07</span>(Extraterrestrial Impact Likely Source Of Sudden Ice Age Extinctions, ScienceDaily (Sep. 25, 2007), [[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2007/09/070924172959.htm]], G.L)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the Proceedings…funded the work.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ice age makes extinction inevitable</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bingel in 7</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Dr. Ferit, Middle East Technical University of Marine Sciences, May 25 __Ice Age Possible for Scandinavia?;__ behav.org)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="underline0">Within recent months…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and even centuries.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 2 is miscalculation</span>

<span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Asteroids cause accidents</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Correll ‘3</span> (national security consultant, former U.S. Air Force space project, PhD in physics from University of Texas, “National Security Implications of the Asteroid Threat” 2/4/03, [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/120.pdf|www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/120.pdf]], AG)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="underline0">In addition to …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">diplomatic issues involved.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Accidents cause extinction – specifically causes war with Russia</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moore 07</span> (Carol, anti-nuclear political activist, “Is World Nuclear War Inevitable?” [[http://carolmoore.net/nuclearwar/#Accidental|http://carolmoore.net/nuclearwar/#Accidental]] November 2007) JM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Needless to say,… a relevant video.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 3 Ocean Strike</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Asteroid is likely to hit the ocean – creates huge tsunami waves, according to computer simulations.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stephens 03</span>(<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tim, Staff Writer @ UC Santa Cruz, “Massive tsunami sweeps Atlantic Coast in asteroid impact scenario for March 16, 2880” [[http://news.ucsc.edu/2003/05/355.html]] May 27, 2003) JM</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">If an asteroid<span class="underline0">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Geophysical Journal International</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">This scenario is very likely to cause extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Edwards 10 (Lin, science-specialized news reporter for Physorg, “Asteroid strike into ocean could deplete ozone layer” October 27, 2010 </span>[[http://www.physorg.com/news/2010-10-asteroid-ocean-deplete-ozone-layer.html]]<span style="font-size: 12pt;">) JM</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Scientists in Texas … Planetary Science Letters.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ocean destruction will ensure planetary extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Craig 03** [Robin Kundis,Associate Professor at Indiana University School of Law “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection”, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Biodiversity and ecosystem….not necessarily unique.</span>


====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Solvency</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Contention 3 is solvency</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Putting an infrared sensor in a Venus-like orbit would increase detection methods by 180% and could detect PHO’s, which threaten Earth.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bucknam and Gold in 08[Mark and Robert “Survival” (00396338); Oct/Nov2008, Vol. 50 Issue 5, p141-156, 16p PN] [PHO - potentially hazardous object]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">NASA analysed options<span class="underline0">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to ten years.14</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space based telescopes are key to successful detection-they can operate 24/7 and are more efficient</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">IRWIN I. SHAPIRO et al in 10</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">,( Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Chair FAITH VILAS, MMT Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, Vice Chair MICHAEL A’HEARN, University of Maryland, College Park, Vice Chair ANDREW F. CHENG, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory FRANK CULBERTSON, JR., Orbital Sciences Corporation DAVID C. JEWITT, University of California, Los Angeles STEPHEN MACKWELL, Lunar and Planetary Institute H. JAY MELOSH, Purdue University JOSEPH H. ROTHENBERG, Universal Space Network, //Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies Space Studies Board Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences//, __THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES PRESS__, </span>[[http://www.fas.harvard.edu/%7Eplanets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf|__http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~planets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf__]]<span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The 2003 NASA …</span> made 24 hrs/day.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Detection is key to the deflection technology the world will need to survive</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Keim 09</span>(How to Defend Earth Against an Asteroid Strike By Brandon Keim March 27, 2009, is a Wired Science reporter and freelance journalist [[http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2009/03/planetdefense/]] G.L)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Under NASA’s Near… comes to you."</span>



=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 19pt;">Negative</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 17pt;">Topicality</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">T Human</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">I. Interpretation –</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a) Exploration means to expand human presence to space</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Logsdon, 9 –</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight</span> //<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Why Is There Still a Controversy?,”</span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Exploration as a Compelling Rationale</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">Many believe that the only sustainable rationale for a … “primary objectives” of national pride and prestige, and also to some of the several “secondary objectives.”</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">b) development also has to be human presence</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Livingston 07</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, [[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Eric Westling is ascience writer</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">, pundit on science, technology, …</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">manned commercial projects in space</span>__**</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2NC counterinterp cards</span>__**</span>==== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">their interpretation muddles debate –</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Faith 8/31/9</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1456/1]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">“ Giving NASA a clear mission “</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">G. Ryan Faith is an adjunct fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS).</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Giving NASA a clear mission</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">If … step to build on past accomplishments and lay the groundwork for future missions.</span></span>







<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">b)And, aff T cards distort the language and slay precision</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wright 6/28/6</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.spacepolitics.com/2006/06/28/a-move-against-mars-mission-funding/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Overseeing the revival of Teachers in Space …. __attempt to co-opt the language.__</span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">c)international concensus is on our side</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ehrenfreund and Peter 9</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 244-256, “ Toward a paradigm shift in managing future global space exploration endeavors”</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ehrenfreund: Pascale Ehrenfreund, (Ph.D. Thesis University of Vienna/ University Paris VII) Research Professor of Space Policy and International Affairs. Molecular Biology, Space Science and related policy making, technology management.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nicolas Peter: Research Fellow, European Space Policy Institute, M.A. in International Science and Technology Policy - Elliott School of International Affairs -The George Washington University, Washington D.C., USA</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The rising number of new countries embarking …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> strategy: the framework for coordination http://esamultimedia.esa.int/docs/GES_Framework_final.pdf (2007) [GES 2007].[10].</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: robots = we meet</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There is a clear difference between robots and humans – they don’t meet</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ehrenfreud 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (P., Space Policy Institute – George Washington University, et al., “Cross-Cultural Management Supporting Global Space Exploration”, Acta Astronautica, 66(1-2), January-February, p. 245)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">1 The European Space Agency ESA defines exploration …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">neighboring planets and small bodies of our solar system</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">2NC satellites link to limits</span>==== 





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">First, limits</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">- they blow the lid off the topic – here is a SHORT list of satellites that they would allow for</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia 2007</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“Types of Satellites” [[http://www.infoplease.com/ce6/sci/A0860930.html]], PZ)</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Satellites can be divided into five</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> principal</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">types: research, communications, weather, navigational, and applications</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">… can also use the GLONASS data if equipped with the proper processing software.</span></span>



====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">2NC AT: aff ground</span>==== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">humans are the core of the topic – here’s a caselistVernikos 2008</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> -- member of the Space Studies Board of the National Academy and former director of NASA’s Life Sciences Division (Joan 1/1 2008, “Is Space Exploration Worth the Cost? A Freakonomics Quorum.” A quorum on Freakonomics blog, run by Steven J. Dubner, “</span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.freakonomics.com/2008/01/11/is-space-exploration-worth-the-cost-a-freakonomics-quorum/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">) Without risking human lives, robotic</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">technology</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">such as [non human]</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">unmanned</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">missions</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">, ...but, should the need arise, provide alternative habitats for humanity’s survival.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">*we don’t endorse gendered language</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC limits key cards</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">impossible research burden means aff always wins – limits outweigh and access every theory argument</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rowland 84</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – (Robert C., Baylor U., “Topic Selection in Debate”, __American Forensics in Perspective__. Ed. Parson, p. 53-4)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">The first major problem identified by the work group …of broad topics that has led some small schools to cancel their programs.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Limits key to in depth education which outweighs --- only real world impact</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">SD, 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Science Daily, Robert Tai and Philip Sadler - Robert Tai, associate professor at the University of Virginia's Curry School of Education, worked with Marc S. Schwartz of the University of Texas at Arlington and Philip M. Sadler and Gerhard Sonnert of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics to conduct the study and produce the report. “Students Benefit From Depth, Rather Than Breadth, In High School Science Courses”,http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2009/03/090305131814.htm]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">A recent study reports that high school</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">students who study fewer</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">…..</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">as those in courses that touched on every major topic.</span>__</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__1NC T beyond mesosphere__</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Beyond means the aff has to go above the mesosphere</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oxford Dictionary</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">[[http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/beyond?view=uk]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1 at or to the further side of</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">:[…pushing the laws to their limits and beyond</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">That’s not on the ground</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jessey 2000-</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> Ph. D, professor of geology at CSU ( [[http://geology.csupomona.edu/drjessey/class/Gsc101/Moisture.html]] “ MOISTURE, CLOUDS and PRECIPITATION”)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">Troposphere - lowest layer of the atmosphere where … temperature, but this is meaningless since there is in effect no atmosphere present.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">T its</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**interpretation - its means ownership**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Encarta, 9** (Encarta World English Dictionary, http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861622735)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__its__<span class="resultbody"> [ </span>its<span class="resultbody"> ]</span> adjective Definition: indicating possession: used to indicate that something belongs<span class="resultbody">or relates </span>to something<span class="resultbodysmallitalic">The park changed its policy.</span></span>




===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Framework</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Our framework**: the aff has to defend that the USFG implement a topical policy advocacy. All advantages should be causal results of the plan, not from in round discussion.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**First is topicality –**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**a) Resolved reflects a legislative forum**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="CharChar">Army Officer School, 04</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (5-12, “# 12, Punctuation – The Colon and Semicolon”, http://usawocc.army.mil/IMI/wg12.htm)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13px;">The colon introduces</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> the following: a. A list, but …</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">That this council petition the mayor</span>__.__</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__b) And__, “United States Federal Government should” means the debate is solely about the outcome of a policy established by governmental means**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="CharChar">Ericson, 03</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts – California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition, p. 4)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">The Proposition of Policy: Urging Future Action In policy propositions, </span>…<span style="font-size: 11px;"> is to offer sufficient and compelling reasons for an audience to perform the future action that you propose. </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Second is our standards -**</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**A) Fairness—there are an infinite number of frameworks that the Aff can’t predict which rigs the game for the negative**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**MEARSHEIMER 1995**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (John, Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, International Security, Winter 94/95)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">Nevertheless, critical theorists readily acknowledge …will cooperate with each other and world politics will be more peaceful.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**B) Policy implications are necessary to test theory—a legitimate alternative must describe the consequences of implementing specific change because rhetorical criticism can make the world worse—the impact is education and it turns the case**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="Underline">**FEAVER 2001**</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Peter, Asst. Prof of Political Science at Duke University, Twenty-First Century Weapons Proliferation, p 178)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">At the same time, virtually </span>all good theory has <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> the proliferation field already does so.</span></span>


<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**C) space education is good**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="Underline">Bill **Stevens**, 20**11**, “Space Exploration” </span>[[http://www.nfhs.org/WorkArea/linkit.aspx?LinkIdentifier=id&ItemID|www.nfhs.org/WorkArea/linkit.aspx?LinkIdentifier=id&ItemID]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">The challenges of the Cold War and President John F. Kenney’s declaration that the US would put a man on the Moon drove students of the 1960’s into </span>__fields of science and mathematics, … that boosts educational goals could do the same for economic goals__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span></span>
====<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC education cards</span>**</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Conventional policy debate best promotes real world change. It teaches vital political understanding and knowledge – the Aff’s model of education short-circuits this learning process** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Coverstone, 1995</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Alan, Faculty at Montgomery Bell Academy, An Inward Glance, http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Coverstone1995China.htm)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">Mitchell's argument underestimates the nature of </span><span class="BodyTextChar">**__academic debate__**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">… a dessert now because there are more people trying to "fit in" that there are people trying to break out.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**And – We co-opt the majority of their offense – topicality doesn’t seek to expunge critical thinking from debate. Their framework’s exclusive, moralizing presupposition that they have to be outside of the state prevents self-reflexivity and results in the total breakdown of dialogue and engagement** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Keenan, 1998</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Alan, Ph.D., Member of the Committee on Degrees in Social Studies at Harvard University, Theory and Event, Vol. 2 No. 1, http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy2.cl.msu.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v002/2.1keenan.html)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">The anti-political nature of guilt, in turn, helps explain the political failures of left "moralism" … their investment in the state of emergency and its displays of technical power, by challenging their belief in the futility, aggressivity, and dreariness of political action.</span>


<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Theory disconnected from reality is meaningless --- persuasive skills and application of taking ideas and applying them come before content itself**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Richard **Betts**, 19**97**. Professor of Political Science and Director of the Institute of War and Peace Studies at Columbia. “Should Strategic Studies Survive?” World Politics, 50.1, p. 7-33.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Two academic pathologies should raise the stock of policy studies… . Strategy is a field where truth is sought in the pursuit of viable solutions." 49 </span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NC limits cards</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**A. Key to productive discourse**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Shively ‘2K** (Ruth Lesl, Professor of Politics at Texas A&M, “//Partisan Politics and Political Theory”//, p. 181-2)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">This means, first, that they must recognize the role of agreement in …, </span>__contestation rests on__ <span style="font-size: 11px;">some </span>__basic agreement__ <span style="font-size: 11px;">or harmony.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**B. Prevents power politics that turns the case**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Shively ‘2K</span> (Ruth Lesl, Professor of Politics at Texas A&M, “Partisan Politics and Political Theory”, p. 181-2)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Nor is this recognition of rational persuasion a …<span style="font-size: 13px;">grounds that allow them to weigh their own thoughts and choose</span>.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Their argument misses the point that WE ARE ALL POLICY MAKERS. Debating about alternative government policies is the best way to instill a METHOD OF DECISIONMAKING that is useful in all parts of life.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Ross Smith,** former debate coach at Wake Forest University, **7 (**4/4/2007, Ross K., “Challenge to the Community,” https://mail.google.com/mail/?shva=1#inbox, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">Policy: a course of action undertaken by an agent</span>__. We are all policy makers … from us personnally while still residing in the "public sphere" is a feature, not a bug__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span></span>




<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**We’ll also read an impact to policy education- prevents extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Beres ’03</span> (Louis Rene-, June 5, Journal and Courrier, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">Our </span><span style="font-size: 13px;">response, </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">even </span><span style="font-size: 13px;">after Operation Iraqi Freedom, lacks conviction</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">. … world order, an unheralded and sinister arrival in which only a shadowy legion of gravediggers would wield the forceps. </span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Traditional debate encourages a panoramic argument vision, which translates to public debate**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mitchell and Suzuki </span>****<span style="font-size: 16px;">2004</span>** (Gordon R., and Takeshi, U Pitt Debate Guru and Tsuda College, "Beyond the Daily Me", Aug. 2-5, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://wvvwf.pitt.edu/%7EgordormVJPubs/MitchellSuzuki3.rtf|http://wvvwf.pitt.edu/~gordormVJPubs/MitchellSuzuki3.rtf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">Panoramic argument vision. </span>**__The competitive pressure of tournament …__**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (across different viewpoints) and vertically (in layers of depth on a single topic).</span></span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**2NC Framework First**</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Framework comes first – it is the foundation of the debate without which we cannot test and refine the arguments they are asserting**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Saurette**<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">,</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;"> 2000</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Paule, Ph.D. Johns Hopkins, International Journal of Peace Studies, 5:1)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13px;">The problem of concepts </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">-- </span><span style="font-size: 13px;">what they are, where they are located, … own making, they are the necessary and universal conditions of possibility for any experience and understanding</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Must Have a Plan</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Third, it undermines clash—it’s impossible to engage their ideas if we don’t know what they are—that clash is critical to develop strategies and test ideas which eventually result in social change**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**BRANHAM 1995** <span style="font-size: 11px;">(Robert, Professor of Rhetoric at Bates College, Argumentation and Advocacy, Winter)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__In the years following his ….which shone most brightly in the light generated by confrontation__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span></span>




==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 17pt;">Counterplans</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Near Space CP</span>=== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Text:</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The United States federal government should:</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">-</span> <span class="underline0" style="font-size: 10pt;">Phase out reliance on space assets through an increase of near-space systems,</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">-</span> <span class="underline0" style="font-size: 10pt;">Increase tracking capabilities,</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">-</span> <span class="underline0" style="font-size: 10pt;">and cancel funding for Operationally Responsive Space.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Solves the case</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lowery 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– is an Associate of Rankin, Yeldell & Katz, A Professional Law Corporation, a law firm in Bastrop (Scott, January 13th, “Why the Weaponization of Space Should Not Be Pursued” [[http://www.colorado.edu/ArtsSciences/PWR/occasions/articles/Lowery_Why%20the%20Weaponization%20of%20Space%20Should%20Not%20Be%20Pursued.pdf]]</span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 10pt;">, PZ)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">A far better option than the weaponization of space …</span><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> from proposing a ban on all space weapons.</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Russia CP</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The government of the Russian federation should increase efforts to survey and deflect Near Earth Objects.</span>**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Russian space program can deflect asteroids</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">RUSSIAN PRESS DIGEST 2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (RusData Line, “Russia is developing equipment for exploration of a potentially dangerous asteroid,” May 19)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Russian scientists are promising to develop a …e</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">verything will be done based on the laws of physics," stressed the head of the space agency.</span></span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space Debris Solvency</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Solves better than the plan**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**The Week 10-14** (2011, “Cleaning up Trash in Space” [[http://theweek.com/article/index/220249/cleaning-up-the-trash-in-space]], PZ)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">At the moment, all the junk-busting gadgets … arguing about where space begins," says Victoria Samson of the Secure World Foundation, a lobbying group. That’s "the same argument they’ve been having for 40 years."</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**No solvency deficits – status quo proves Russia has the capabilities to be successful**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**City News 10**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7px;">[“Russia Allocated $2 Billion to Remove Space Debris” 12/2/2010, [[http://www.starcitynews.com/russia-allocated-2-billion-to-remove-space-debris/2023/]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7px;">Natural resources are gradually declining and humans are looking for alternative means, either in the form of resources or in the form of … can identify and encounter the incoming comet by derailing it from its original path by changing its trajectory so that it misses earth and burns in air.</span>




===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Prizes CP</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Text:</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should establish a substantial monetary prize for the first private entity that successfully develops technology necessary for asteroid detection.</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Solves the case</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kalil, 2006</span>** <span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">[Thomas, Special Assistant to the Chancellor for Science and Technology at UC Berkeley, Senior Fellow with the Center for American Progress & Former Deputy Assistant to President Clinton for Technology and Economic Policy), “</span><span style="color: #282425; font-size: 8.5pt;">Prizes for Technological Innovation,” The Hamilton Project, The Brookings Institution, Discussion Paper 2006-08, December]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="color: #282425; font-size: 8.5pt;">Among all federal agencies,</span> __<span style="color: #282425; font-size: 10pt;">NASA has shown the greatest interest in using prizes …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> on their critical path for important missions, and will need more experience with prizes before making them a mainstream tool.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC link differential</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Link differential - The gov’t doesn’t have to pay for prizes until they’re done</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Stine 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – Specialist in Science and Technology Policy (Deborah D, “Federally Funded innovation Inducement Prizes” , CRS Report for Congress, June 29th, [[http://www.crs.gov/|www.crs.gov]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Competitors</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">, in general,</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">receive no funding from either …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">, agencies set aside funding from existing programs or solicit it from programs throughout the agency. The higher the financial reward, the more challenging such actions are to take.</span></span>



====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: private sector is poor</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Plenty of money for investment, and young demographic means its more likely</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Worden, 2004</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Simon, Brigadier General (USAF, Retired), a Fellow in the office of Senator Sam Brownback on detail from the University of Arizona where he is a Research Professor of Astronomy, was Director of Transformation at the Space and Missiles Systems Center, Los Angeles Air Force Base. As the staff officer for initiatives in the first Bush administration's National Space Council, he spearheaded efforts to revitalize our civil space exploration and earth monitoring programs. General Worden has written or co-authored more than 150 technical papers in astrophysics, space science and strategic studies. He was scientific co-investigator for two NASA space lab missions, Marshall Institute, “Private Sector Opportunities and the President’s Space Exploration Vision” 4-7, http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/230.pdf]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The key question is how much money is available …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> is one of the coolest.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: government needs acess to tech</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Government gets access to tech</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Davidian 2005</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– is employed by Federal Aviation Administration as a Director of Research (Ken, “Prize Competitions and NASA’s Centennial Challenges Program” http://www.ip.nasa.gov/documents/cc_ilc_paper_2005-09-08.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">Prize competitions throughout history have proven to be cost-effective and efficient means to . …encouraged NASA to create the Centennial Challenges program.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: perm do cp</span>**</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">b.</span>** **<span style="font-size: 10pt;">should means immediate</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Justice **Summer**, Oklahoma Supreme Court, “Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant”, 19**94**, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn14</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">4</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The legal question to be resolved by the court is whether the word "should</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">"</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">…**__immediately effective__**__, **as opposed to something that will**__</span><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> or would</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">become effective in the future</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> [in futurol]. See Van Wyck v. Knevals, [[http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/deliverdocument.asp?box1=106&box2=U.S.&box3=360|106 U.S. 360]], 365, 1 S.Ct. 336, 337, 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">3. Severs USFG –</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a. “the” means whole</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Merriam Websters</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/the]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">4—</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">used as a function word before a noun</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> ….</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a group as a whole</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> <the elite></span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">b. its means ownership</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Encarta, 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Encarta World English Dictionary, http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861622735)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">its</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [ its ] adjective Definition: __indicating possession: used to ….__ __to something__The park changed its policy</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">c. there is a clear brightline - If its possible for a private company to sell whatever its done after development, then its not USFG action</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Moskowitz, 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - senior writer for Live Science and Space.com (Clara, “55 Space Leaders to Congress: Support Private Spaceflight Now”, 3/3, http://www.space.com/11021-nasa-budget-congress-commercial-spaceflight.html)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A group of more than 55 space leaders …. to building its own next-generation spacecraft</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. [</span><span style="color: #727f6e; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.space.com/10985-obama-congress-space-exploration-budget.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+spaceheadlines+%28SPACE.com+Headline+Feed%29|What Obama and Congress Should Do for Spaceflight]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">]</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: links to spending</span>**</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2. Prizes lower the cost of development</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">National Academy of Engineering</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 19**99**, Concerning Federally Sponsored Inducement Prizes in Engineering and Science, http://www.nap.edu/openbook/NI000221/html/R1.html#pagetop, p. 6</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">One perceived strength of inducement prize contests … of grant or contract winners can be quite high in the case of conventional contracts or grants.</span>__</span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">3. Prizes increase private investment, solves the investor confidence internal link</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">National Academy of Engineering</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 19**99**, Concerning Federally Sponsored Inducement Prizes in Engineering and Science, http://www.nap.edu/openbook/NI000221/html/R1.html#pagetop, p. 7</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A third advantage of prize contests may be their ability … or value of the prize offered and the probability of winning</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>



===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Advantage CP v. Fort Lauderdale Asteroid Mining Aff</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Text: The United States federal government should enact into law House Resolution 2011, Senate Bill 1113, and Senate Bill 383.</span>**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Counter-plan solves- this is their 1AC evidence</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Montgomery 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – Contributor for Research Investing News[Michael, contributor for Resource Investing News, “The Rare Earth Debate Continues in Congress,” [[http://resourceinvestingnews.com/18381-the-rare-earth-debate-continues-in-congress.html]]]</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Recognizing this problem, multiple US representatives have put fourth legislation ...regulation changes and loan guarantees that will give US rare earth companies a leg up on the competition.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Batteries CP (energy adv cp)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Text:** The United States federal government should develop better battery technology.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Solves energy scarcity**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**vBulletin 2008** (May 31st, “Some Questions about Space Based Solar Power” Stranger on a train)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__What we really need the most ….__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> batteries and fuel cells is only inching up with no revolutionary breakthroughs in sight. </span></span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">SSA CP</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Text:</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the United States federal government should transfer military control and funds of its current space situational awareness programs to the Center for Space Standards and Innovation. The United States federal government should not increase its space situational awareness efforts.</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Military control is the reason why SSA fails now</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chow 2010 –</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> SWF Research Assistant (Tiffany, November 10th, “SSA Sharing Program” SWF Issue Brief, PZ)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Because the SSA Sharing Program is administered by … reserves the right to terminate user accounts, and thus deny access to SSA data and information, without prior notice or explanation</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.56</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CSSI control solves</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chow 2010 –</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> SWF Research Assistant (Tiffany, November 10th, “SSA Sharing Program” SWF Issue Brief, PZ)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Center for Space Standards and Innovation (CSSI) … to produce CA and COLA services for participating satellite owner</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">‐</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">operators.65</span>__</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Advantage CP v. Johns Creek Policy Aff</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Text: The United States federal government should not deploy the Mars Sample Return. The United States Federal Government should implement a policy mandating a shift from Portland cement to magnesium carbonate-based cement in 80% of total cement use.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The CP is feasible and solves warming better than the aff – eco-cement can absorb over a billion tonnes of CO2 a year and is a huge alt cause to the aff</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Smith 2 (Tony, La Leva Association, Citing John Harrison, Degree in Science and Economics, Managing Director and Chairman of TecEco, Authority on Environmentally Sustainable Materials, “Concrete Rainforest?” New Energy News, http://www.laleva.cc/environment/rainforest.html) http://www.laleva.cc/environment/rainforest.html</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">There is a way to make our city streets as …f</span><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">ormation of carbonate with our own man-made rocks. What better way" says Harrison, "than in cement? ".</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Carrolton CP - Demonstrate PIC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Text**<span style="color: black; font-size: 13px;">: </span>The United States Federal Government should develop inflatable space based solar power.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Demonstration projects solve slower**- that’s US code</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="Underline">**VLex**</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> 1/11/19</span><span class="Underline">**96**</span> <span style="font-size: 11px;">A legal research mega-site providing thousands of primary and secondary law sources “5 </span>USC 4703 - Sec. 4703. Demonstration projects [[http://us-code.vlex.com/source/us-code-government-organization-employees-1004|U.S. Code - Title 5: Government Organization and Employees]]<span style="font-size: 11px;">”</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="color: #222244; font-size: 11px;">(a) Except as provided in this section, </span>the O<span style="color: #222244; font-size: 11px;">ffice of </span>P<span style="color: #222244; font-size: 11px;">ersonnel </span>M<span style="color: #222244; font-size: 11px;">anagement </span>may<span style="color: #222244; font-size: 11px;">, …information and reports relating to the conducting of demonstration projects in their respective agencies.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Projects are ready to launch now**- we shouldn’t demonstrate we should just develop</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Costa, 1ac card, 10**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;"> - sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General ElectricRebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1,</span> <span style="font-size: 11px;">[[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space-based solar is alive and well at NASA. <span class="Underline">…</span>just one year.<span style="font-size: 11px;"> Compare this to the four to five years it takes for a single new nuclear plant to become operational.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NC AT: perm do both</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**You can’t fiat through this**- if the agency were to act it would be struck down and ruled unconstitutional</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Electronic Privacy Information Center**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> 20</span>**11**<span class="apple-converted-space">**<span style="color: #002375;"> “</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">EPIC v. DHS (Suspension of Body Scanner Program)” </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://epic.org/privacy/body_scanners/epic_v_dhs_suspension_of_body.html]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">EPIC is suing<span style="font-size: 11px;"> in the District of Columbia Circuit Court of ….</span><span class="Underline">opportunity to express its views."</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**If they somehow prove perm still happens**- it means it sets precedent for ignoring court rulings on agency action--- the card above indicates body scanners will continued to be used in airports</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**That’s bad**- those body scanners kill people</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Daily Mail Reporter**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> 6/30/</span>**10**<span style="font-size: 11px;">“</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">Airport body scanners 'could give you cancer', warns expert” </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-1290527/Airport-body-scanners-deliver-radiation-dose-20-times-higher-thought.html]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Full body scanners at airports<span style="font-size: 11px;"> could </span>increase<span style="font-size: 11px;"> your </span><span class="Underline">risk of</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> …</span> The population risk has the potential to be significant.'</span>



===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">XO CP</span>=== 



**Text: The President of the United States should issue an executive order to develop a Space Corps.** 



<span class="Underline">**Solves the case and doesn’t link to politics.** </span>

**Goldman, 92** [Space Policy an Introduction, Iowa state Press, Nathan, 0813810248, p. google books]

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ALTHOUGH THE CONSTITUTION establishes separation of powers among coequal …. itself politically and institutionally. </span>



===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Advantage CP vs. CPS (DoD adv)</span>=== 



**Text:** The United States federal government should increase international cooperation and collaboration on space based earth monitoring systems.



**Cp solves the DoD advantage and is popular with Congress** 

**Their author - Center for A New American Security**, July 20**11**“Blinded: The Decline of U.S. Earth Monitoring Capabilities and Its Consequences for National Security pg. online

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Responding to environmental and …. – for example, changes in land use or land cover – were used after the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan.</span>





===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Case Specific CP vs BCC Space Commons Aff</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**The governments of Latin America should place a total ban on oil and natural gas shipments to the United States and its colonies.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Counter-plan is the most effective way to challenge US imperialism and capitalism**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Salzman</span>, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">02</span><span class="tagChar">//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(</span>//</span>Prof Emeritus, Physics Dept, Univ of Massachusetts at Boston. George, “Strategy for Revolution” ,June, [[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate?Discus/2002-09-30CallToStopUS.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The oil and ...</span>__** **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">become food self-sufficient</span>__**.</span>



==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 17pt;">Disads</span>__**</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cell Phones DA</span>=== 


=== === 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Telecommunications industry is strong now**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Market Watch 8-31** (2011, “Growth in telecommunications system boosting DC power demand” [[http://www.marketwatch.com/story/growth-in-telecommunications-sector-boosting-dc-power-system-demand-companiesandmarketscom-2011-08-31]], PZ)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">As a result of the difficult trading conditions of the global recession, </span>__…, particularly in emerging economies__<span style="font-size: 11px;">. Smartphone interest and the evolution of advanced mobile networks (3G, 4G and LTE) has also amplified DC system demand. </span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**SPS would interfere with communication systems – disables the telecommunication industry**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="Underline">**Timmer 2009** (John, “Will the stars align for space-based solar power?” </span>[[http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2009/07/will-the-stars-align-for-space-based-solar-power.ars]], PZ)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">When the microwave signal hits the ground, <span class="Underline">… appliances has increased dramatically in the last few decades. </span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Telecommunications industry key to the economy**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Roger **Etner and** David **Lewin 2005**- A study for CTIA-The Wireless Association™ (September, “The Impact of the US wireless telecom industry on the economy” [[http://files.ctia.org/pdf/Report_OVUM_Economy.pdf]], PZ)</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">After a review of the data available to us, we conclude … **to US businesses of more than $600 billion.**</span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Launches DA - Debris</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**the plan __exponentially__ magnifies debris**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Pusey 10** (Natalie Pusey, Juris Doctor candidate at the University of Colorado Law School, 21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 425, Spring, 2010)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Debris__ <span style="font-size: 11px;">also </span>__enters__ <span style="font-size: 11px;">Earth </span>__orbit as a by-product of … with a functional American commercial satellite; the two former satellites are now 402 pieces of orbital debris.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="color: black;">Space debris risks false alarms and Russian miscalc</span>****<span style="color: black;">—the impact is all out nuclear war. </span>****Lewis 4** – Postdoctoral Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Jeffrey, Worked In the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, What if Space Were Weaponized? July, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">This is the second of two scenarios that consider how U.S. space weapons …</span> __and in control____.__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> As a result, </span>__the mere presence of such weapons is corrosive to the confidence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span></span>

=== === 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space Weaponization</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**No space weaponization now – shift to cooperation**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Huntley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">As is well understood, the space policies of the Bush administration were decidedly oriented toward military … of the strategy remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="color: black;">Debris removal lasers will be __perceived__ as weaponization.</span>**<span style="color: black;"> **Cartwright, 3-16-2011** (Jon, writer for Nature News, “Lasers could nudge space debris aside”, </span>[[http://www.spacenews.com/commentaries/110316-fromwires-lasers-nudge-space-debris.html|__http://www.spacenews.com/commentaries/110316-fromwires-lasers-nudge-space-debris.html__]]<span style="color: black;">, PZ)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">NASA-funded researchers are proposing to clean up Earth's orbital …</span> __ground-based lasers to 'dazzle' satellites and render them inoperable__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Space weaponization makes nuclear war inevitable**<span style="font-size: 11px;">Gordon </span>__Mitchell et al__<span style="font-size: 11px;">, Associate Professor of Communication at the University of Pittsburg, 7/20</span>__01__<span style="font-size: 11px;">. ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defense no. 6, , [[@http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]].A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through …</span> __war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.__</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NC Uniqueness - Cooperation Now</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**The US is pursuing cooperation in space now**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Rose, 11 –**Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance (Frank, “STRENGTHENING STABILITY IN SPACE,” REGULATORY INTELLIGENCE DATA, 4/4, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 9px;">Why is SSA important to space security? A long-standing principle of U.S. national ….</span> __mishaps, misperceptions, and mistrust__<span style="font-size: 9px;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**US has adopted a cooperative approach and is consulting international partners prior to making new policy**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Logsdon 11**--<span style="font-size: 13px;"> Professor Emeritus of Political Science and International Affairs at George Washington University </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12px;">(February, 2011, John M., Space Policy,“Change and Continuity in US Space Policy” Vol. 27, Issue 1, p. 22-23, Science Direct, FS)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__The new National Space Policy directs US government …in the security space arena.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Obama is pursuing international cooperation now**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Fukushima 11—**National Institute for Defense Studies</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">(February, 2011, Yasuhito, “An Asian perspective on the new US space policy: …</span> __is positioned as a__ __“key cornerstone____” in Obama____’s NSP__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.2</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Obama is pushing cooperation now**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Smith 11**-- Space and Technology Policy Group</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(February, 2011, Marcia A., Space Policy, Vol. 27, Issue 1, p. 22-23, Science Direct, FS)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__The financial collapse__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> of 2008-2009 from which most …</span> __using and exploring space__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span></span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NC AT: X-37 B</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Won’t be perceived and CAN’T BE A WEAPON.****Grego and Wright, 10**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – (6/1/10, Laura, PhD, senior scientist in the Global Security Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, David, senior scientist and co-director of the UCS Global Security Program, “Space Plane: Technology In Search of a Mission? (Part 1)” </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://allthingsnuclear.org/post/653648499/space-plane-technology-in-search-of-a-mission-part]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">)In particular, compared to alternate systems, </span>__a space plane doesn’t make … would almost certainly reduce its strike capability__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span></span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NC Link Wall</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Err neg - Other countries will assume the worst**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Zhang 11**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies @ Lingnan University, Hong Kong [Baohui Zhang, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship,” __Asian Survey__, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__This strategy of space dominance__<span style="font-size: 11px;">, however, </span>__… rest of the world won’t accept__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.”17</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**More links -**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**a) plan’s __perceived__ as abandoning the commitment to international partnership**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Smith 11**-- Space and Technology Policy Group</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(February, 2011, Marcia A., Space Policy, Vol. 27, Issue 1, p. 22-23, Science Direct, FS)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">Over succeeding months </span>__national security officials began …__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> deserves a lot of credit for its draft Code of Conduct for Outer Space Activities. A revised version was released at a meeting at the UN in October 2010 [5]. </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**b) The lack of prior consultation is a link**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Foust, 10** – editor of the Space Review (Jeff, Space Politics, “New paradigms in human spaceflight policy,” 1/14,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">http://www.spacepolitics.com/2010/01/14/new-paradigms-in-human-spaceflight-policy/</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">As the shuttle programs ends and NASA’s future direction remains …</span> __for effective consultation among the partners before programs are initiated____and__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> necessary </span>__changes are made__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.”</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**c) Cooperation must be an __explicit mandate__ of the plan or it undermines US credibility**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Sabathier et. al 6**<span style="font-size: 11px;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6, Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__International cooperation in space exploration has the …____to maintain its diplomatic credibility for future exploration endeavors__<span style="font-size: 11px;">. </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**d) Space tech is defined by capabilities, not intent, the aff links**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">Wade L. </span>**__Huntley__**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> , Joseph G. </span>**__Bock__**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> , </span>**__and__**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> Miranda </span>**__Weingartner__**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> 20</span>**__09__** <span style="font-size: 11px;">Huntley, a US Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, CA, USA Bock, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Notre Dame, IN, USA Weingartner Consulting, Ontario, Canada “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA523690&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">For the better part of the past decade, </span>__the focus of__ <span style="font-size: 11px;">these </span>__concerns has been__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> … conﬁdence in crisis-response capabilities.</span></span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">LEO DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ORS will place assets in low earth orbit</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sejba 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “ Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, High Frontier, May, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">Two examples highlight how ORS could play a credible …augment existing systems for Tier</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Crowding in the LEO causes conflict and accidents, collapses the satellite industry, and increases debris</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Day 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Michael, The Telegraph, “Space Junk: A Risky Game of Space Invaders”, February 1st, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8135495/Space-junk-a-risky-game-of-space-invaders.html]], MBIBAS)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">When,</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">in</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the early hours of February 10,</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2009, an American …</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> or to be used as a way station for the phone calls, radio signals and electronic data transfers that keep the information economy ticking over.</span></span>





====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">2NC impact overview</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1.</span>****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">timeframe</span>__****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– competition over orbital slots occurs</span>****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">before</span>__****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">satellites are launched to fill them – means it’s impossible for the aff to access our scenarios for conflict</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.zsrlaw.com/attorneys/atty_bios/plm.htm|Pamela L.]][[http://www.zsrlaw.com/attorneys/atty_bios/plm.htm|**Meredith**]] **__and__** [[http://www.zsrlaw.com/attorneys/atty_bios/rbt.htm|Rachel B.]][[http://www.zsrlaw.com/attorneys/atty_bios/rbt.htm|**Trinder**]], 6-11-19**__98__**, co-chair the Space Law Group at the Washington, DC law firm of Zuckert, Scoutt & Rasenberger, L.L.P., advise US and foreign space interests on a variety of regulatory and transactional issues, Meredith also teaches satellite communications law at American University’s law school, and Ms. Trinder is a member of the Executive Committee of the International Institute of Air & Space Law in Leiden, The Netherlands, “Financing a communications satellite venture: assessing regulatory risk is key,” Satellite Finance, Issue 4, [[http://www.zsrlaw.com/publications/articles/rbt980611.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In order to protect</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> the FCC satellite frequency and</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">, slots in the same frequency band need to be two degrees apart in order to avoid interference.</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">4. only a risk that the disad</span>****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">turns the case</span>__****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– conflicts over orbital slots prevent effective deployment of space control</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Theresa **__Hitchens__**, 10-2-200**__3__**, Vice President, Center for Defense Information, “U.S. Weaponization of Space: Implications for International Security,” presented to: The Workshop on Outer Space and International Security, Sponsored by: The Center for International Security Studies at Maryland And The Institute for USA and Canada Studies, Sept. 29, 2003, [[http://www.cdi.org/friendlyversion/printversion.cfm?documentID=1745]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">While the costs to industry and their pass-on to … **__in chaos as nations compete for orbital real-estate__**.</span>







<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">miscalculation</span>__****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– mistrust of foreign INTENT ENSURES the US escalates DISPUTES</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">POST</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 200**__6__**, Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology, UK, postnote, December, Number 273, “Military uses of space,” [[http://www.parliament.uk/documents/upload/postpn273.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">National space policies, while giving importance to …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, for example **over orbital slot allocations**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> (Box 5).</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">foreign miscalculation</span>__****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– routine satellite failure will be falsely perceived as US aggression, ensuring foreign escalation of conflicts</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Christopher A. **__Coffelt__**, June 200**__5__**, Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy, p. 95</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">Those that operate satellite systems and are familiar with space operations know the difficulties in determining the exact cause of many satellite malfunctions or “anomalies.”</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It is oftentimes difficult if not impossible to determine …</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">for the us to protect its own systems and access to space.</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Debris makes space unusable</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Imburgia 11</span>** **<span style="font-size: 5.5pt;">– Lt. Col. and Judge Advocate in Air Force</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5.5pt;">Joseph S. Imburgia, J.D., University of Tennessee College of Law (2002); LL.M., The Judge Advocate General’s Legal Center & School, U.S. Army, Charlottesville, Va. (2009)), a Judge Advocate in the United States Air Force and is presently assigned as a legal exchange officer to the Directorate of Operations and International Law, Defence Legal, Australian Defence Force, Canberra, Australia, 2011, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Scholar</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Some experts believe that __once space debris … disintegrate in Earth’s atmosphere__.56</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">PLA DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Xi will succeed Hu now now – restructures US relationship with China</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NYT 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (New York Times, January 23rd, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/01/24/world/asia/24leader.html?src=twrhp]], MBIBAS)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">President</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hu Jintao</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> of China</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">returned home</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> … he has enrolled his daughter in Harvard, under a pseudonym.</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">PLA will use the plan as a scapegoat – guarantees increased influence and crowds out Xi</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chinese Defense Mashup 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (China’s Military Raises Its Voice, January 19th,</span> **<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">[[http://www.china-defense-mashup.com/chinas-military-raises-its-voice.html]]</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, MBIBAS)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The J-20 test</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">'s timing Perhaps</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">more interesting than the testwas</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> …. difficult economic balance, the military is coming into its own and making its interests heard more clearly. How this balance plays out will be tremendously significant.</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Break-down of Chinese civil-military relations will cause militaristic PLA hardliners to control the party – this turns the case</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Guardian 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“In China, Is The Gun Beginning To Command The Party?”, January 13th, [[http://latestchina.com/article/?rid=27494]], MBIBAS)</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">One of</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the greatest concern</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">s</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">about</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> contemporary</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> many of</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Beijing's key figures.</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This week's news about the stealth jet's test flight is merely the latest in a series of such incidents.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC overview</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Here’s an external impact - Collapse of the delicate relationship between the CCP and the PLA guarantees mass social instability in China</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Li 2010 (Nan, Professor at the Center for Naval Warfare Studies, China Maritime Studies, Chinese Civil-Military Relations in the Post-Deng Era, January, [[http://www.usnwc.edu/Research---Gaming/China-Maritime-Studies-Institute/Publications/documents/China-Maritime-Study-No-4-January-2010.aspx]], MBIBAS)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">However, and in contrast to foreign-policy cases, wherein information remains highly speculative,</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">road construction, transportation, and nuclear, biological, and chemical defense) for nonwar military operations (flood and earthquake relief; nuclear, biological, and chemical disaster relief; transportation disaster relief; and international peacekeeping)</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And – Implosion goes nuclear – it draws in India, the U.S., Britain, and China and it is the highest probability scenario for global nuclear exchange</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Klintworth ’94**(Gary, former Senior researcher at the Northeast Asia project-Australian Journal of International Affairs, November, page 219, not obtained electronically)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">China</span>__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">also</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">has many problems</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, not least the degradation of its environment, …</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the greatest risk to regional and global security.</span>__</span>



====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: China not peaceful</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Xi respects American values and is willing to cooperate</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Eckert 11<span style="font-size: 10pt;">- Reuters (Paul, 2/20/2011, “Cables show U.S. sizing up China's next leader” [[http://www.vancouversun.com/life/SPECIAL+REPORT+Cables+show+sizing+China+next+leader/4311905/story.html]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">U.S. diplomats' account of a September 29 meeting in …</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">g some of them "neglect values they should promote."</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">China is peaceful now</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hong 8-3</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - is secretary-general of China Arms Control and Disarmament Association (Li, 2011, “Make Outer Space Safe for All” China Daily, [[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/usa/epaper/2011-08/03/content_13040439.htm]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">China has always advocated peaceful use of space</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">…</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">arms race in space with the US</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span></span>




====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: weaponization inev</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">arguments about the inevitability of a Chinese attack assume that China is a monolithic actor when in reality there is a domestic debate, the status quo is comparatively less likely to cause weaponization than the plan</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Manzo, 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - CDI Research Assistant (Vince, “U.S. Policy Brief: The Need for a Strategic Dialogue with China,” 8/28, http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/StrategicDialoguePolicy.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Who is Right?</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">The four viewpoints in the previous section represent … U.S. policy-makers from thinking through the immediate and indirect consequences of their choices.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">3. China’s actions will be solely reactionary – this assumes worst case scenarios</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hagt 2007</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – the director of the China Program at the World Security Institute in Washington, DC, and also the editor of China Security (Eric, “China’s ASAT Test Strategic Response” http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=0c54e3b3-1e9c-be1e-2c24-a6a8c7060233&lng=en&id=31974</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Even if we are facing the worst case scenario and China is … there is still hope. But flexibility and sacrifice will be essential</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span></span>



===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Spending</span>=== 





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">New agreement guarantees massive cuts and fiscal responsibility</span>**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kyl 8-9</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – Senator, serves on the Senate Finance and Judiciary Comitee (John, 2011, Ledger DC journal – peer reviewed, “The long road ahead to fiscal responsibility” [[http://www.nationalledger.com/politics-crime/the-long-road-ahead-to-fiscal-666313.shtml]])</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Congress recently reached a bipartisan agreement …</span>__** __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">with some movement down the road to fiscal responsibility</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span></span>







<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space programs cause huge spending</span>**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hsu 9 (Feng, Ph.D. and Senior Fellow – Aerospace Technology Working Group, and Ken Cox, Ph.D. and Founder & Director – Aerospace Technology Working Group, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision”, 2-20, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="heading3char0">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">There are limited financial resources from</span>____<span style="font-size: 13pt;">…</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">affordable but can be mutually supported.</span></span>







<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Failure to maintain fiscal discipline collapses investor confidence and causes economic collapse</span>**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Washington Post, 1-7</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 11, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/01/07/AR2011010701826.html]]</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bernanke laid out a … and increasing business confidence.</span>__**</span>











<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economic collapse causes global nuclear war</span>**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Harris and Burrows 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 5.5pt;"> – PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]], EMM)</span></span>







<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 5.5pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is …</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">in a</span>__<span style="font-size: 5.5pt;">more</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">dog-eat-dog world.</span>__</span>



====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC Overview</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The economy is on the brink now</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bussiness Report 8-26</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (The Chronicle with Bloomberg, “US Economy: Recovery Sputters, Consumer Confidence Sinks” [[http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/g/a/2011/08/26/bloomberg1376-LQJC203T6SRC01-0L33AMUKCOH4R4TUS87KAQN8QA.DTL]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">"</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The consumer is clearly unnerved</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">,"</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> GDP. Estimates ranged from 0.3 percent to 1.6 percent.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">c.</span>****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">magnitude</span>__****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">- every impact we access more through the economy</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Silk 93**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Leonard, Professor of Economics – Pace University, “Dangers of Slow Growth”, Foreign Affairs, 72(1), Winter, p. 173-174)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In the absence of</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">such shifts of</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">human and capital resources …and more liberal and open economies and societies</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC Uniqueness</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Government is cutting spending now – guarantees fiscal responsibility</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ssociated **P**ress **11/15** (2011, “House-Senate negotiations unveil compromise spending bill to avoid another government shutdown” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/house-senate-negotiators-unveil-compromise-spending-bill-to-avoid-another-government-shutdown/2011/11/15/gIQAP3NoNN_story_1.html]], PZ)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">WASHINGTON — House and Senate negotiators …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> and repelled a bid by Senate Democrats for $100 million for much-criticized high-speed rail lines.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">new executive order</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">G</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">overnmnet **P**rinting **O**ffice **11/15** (2011, “Prez Orders Efficient Spending, Feds ROFLAP” Vol. 76</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Executive Order</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> 13589--Promoting Efficient Spending By the authority … (Delivering an Efficient, Effective, and Accountable Government).</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Budget Control Act</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bennett 10-24</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> -Acting Deputy Director of the Office of Economic Policy (John T., 2011, “White House Sides with Senate on bill to freeze defense spending” [[http://thehill.com/news-by-subject/defense-homeland-security/189375-white-house-sides-with-senate-on-defense-spending-bill]], PZ)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The White House has weighed in on the congressional …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> according to InterAction, a group of nonprofit organizations that work with poor populations.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: spending inevitable</span>==== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Budget Control Act ensures fiscal responsibility</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bennett 10-24</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> -Acting Deputy Director of the Office of Economic Policy (John T., 2011, “White House Sides with Senate on bill to freeze defense spending” [[http://thehill.com/news-by-subject/defense-homeland-security/189375-white-house-sides-with-senate-on-defense-spending-bill]], PZ)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The White House has weighed in …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> a group of nonprofit organizations that work with poor populations.</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Regardless of how it happens the government will cut spending</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Washington Times 10-24</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (2011, “Calls for debt panel to ‘go big’ get louder” [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/oct/24/calls-for-debt-panel-to-go-big-get-louder/]], PZ)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The bipartisan supercommittee was born out of this summer’s bitter …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> that would affect a wide range of domestic programs and the Pentagon.</span></span>





====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">2NC AT: economy sucks now</span>==== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economy is recovering</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Federal Reserve 10-24</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (2011, “Federal Reserve: The Outlook for US Economy and Economic Policy” [[http://wallstcheatsheet.com/stocks/federal-reserve-the-outlook-for-the-u-s-economy-and-economic-policy.html/]], PZ)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">Since the middle of 2009,</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the U.S. economy has been recovering</span>__** __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…have eased</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> somewhat for many businesses and households.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The economy is recovering but it’ll be slow – magnifies the internal link</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mason 10-19</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - a professor at Penn State University and has taught in both the Management Division and the Engineering Division (John M. 2011, “The US Economy will Continue to Grow” [[http://seekingalpha.com/article/300450-the-u-s-economy-will-continue-to-grow]], PZ)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">I believe, as I have written before, that</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the United States **economy is recovering …**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> interest rates as low as they are into the middle of 2013.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: investor confidence low now</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Investor confidence is low but rising – magnifies the internal link</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited **P**ress **I**nternational **10-11** (2011, “Consumer Confidence Low, But Rising” [[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/2011/10/11/Consumer-confidence-low-but-rising/UPI-54301318346476/]], PZ)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">RAMSEY, N.J., Oct. 11 (UPI) -- U.S. consumer confidence …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Consumer confidence is still in a vulnerable territory, despite its modest improvement in October</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">," Raghavan Mayur, president of TIPP, said in a statement.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: plan creates jobs</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Investor confidence determines employment - empirics</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kevin **Brady**, Vice chairman designate of economics comittee, **3/15**/11, “Spend Less, oWe Less, Grow the Economy” o http://www.jec.senate.gov/republicans/public/?a=Files.Serve&File_id=c4eb04a7-48b5-4e4c-b9d8-1622432f0b4b</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Some say we need to wait to start reducing … is a proven way to create jobs and reduce unemployment.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">50</span></span>



====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">2NC Fiscal Discipline/Investor Confidence Key</span>==== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fiscal Discipline is key</span>**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Summers</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> , **2K**, in 2000 Former Secretary of the treasury</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Lawrence H., , “The case for fiscal discipline,” [[http://www.ustreas.gov/press/releases/ls605.htm%20May%203|http://www.ustreas.gov/press/releases/ls605.htm May 3]])</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">It bears emphasis that</span> <span class="headerchar0">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">these changes in understanding …higher growth has been demonstrated</span>__</span></span>











<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">reducing uncertainty</span>**</span>

==== ==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">US Senate Committee</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, analysis, **5/12**/11, “Spending Cuts and Economic Grwoth: What does the cross country empirical evidence show?” http://budget.senate.gov/republican/analysis/2011/2011-05-12WhitePaper.pdf</span></span>

==== ==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There may be at least three reasons the empirical … and new business ventures are the much-needed fuel for job creation</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.29</span></span>











<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">interest rate effects</span>**</span>

==== ==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">US Senate Committee</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, analysis, **5/12**/11, “Spending Cuts and Economic Grwoth: What does the cross country empirical evidence show?” http://budget.senate.gov/republican/analysis/2011/2011-05-12WhitePaper.pdf</span></span>

==== ==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2. Interest Rate Effects—Reductions in national debt due … increasing financial wealth, and triggering even more accompanying increases in consumption and investment</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span></span>















<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Investor confidence is vital to the global economy</span>**</span>

==== ==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CANSIZLAR 02</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Chair Capital Markets Board of Turkey & Chair of IOSCO Emerging Markets Committee</span></span>

==== ==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(“Dogan Cansizlar’s Speech to the Securities Commision” [[http://www.sc.com.my/eng/html/resources/speech/sp_20021028_1.html]])</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Investor confidence provides the foundation on which the … health of the global economy due to spillover effects.</span>__</span>



====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: no impact to economic collapse</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economic decline causes war – studies prove</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may …</span><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span></span>



=== === 





===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Politics</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">1NC China Bashing - Michigan RR</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Boehner is the only thing blocking the currency bill</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wall Street Journal 10/6</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20111006-713089.html</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">Rank-and-file House</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Republicansare breaking … between China and a new U.S. currency policy.</span>__**</span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Plan kills political capital.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Handberg 11**<span style="font-size: 5.5pt;"> - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]])</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">The US space program remained focused, not on duplicating …. now the small ball approach becomes your mantra.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Boehner gets the blame, saps capital</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Garrett ‘11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Major Garrett, “A Kinder, Gentler Speaker?” The Atlantic, 6-5-2011, http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2011/06/a-kinder-gentler-speaker/239935/)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">On the eve of a potential government shutdown in April, ….</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">negotiations will only get tougher</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span></span>









<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Triggers trade wars – collapsing the global economy, free trade and escalating to war with China</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Droke ‘10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Clif Droke, editor of Momentum Strategies Report, Green Faucet, “America and the Next Major War,” 3-29-2010, http://www.greenfaucet.com/technical-analysis/america-and-the-next-major-war/79314)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">In the current phase of relative peace and stability we now enjoy,</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">many are …, the nation that is hurt will surely retaliate and the entire world will suffer</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">," writes Barker.</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Straits Times -2K**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Straits Times, June, 25, 2000, No one gains in war over Taiwan] (PDNSS2115)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO -</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates a …. for China puts sovereignty above everything else</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span></span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12.5pt;">2NC overview</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only extinction scenario</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">O’Hanlon</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> adjunct professor at John Hopkins and lecturer at Princeton and Bush, **07** [Michael, “A war like no other: the truth about China's challenge to America”, p. google books]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">War between China and</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Taiwan is a distinct possibility. …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">the United States real!)' would sit out a China-Taiwan war.</span></span>



=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12.5pt;">2NC Uniqueness</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Boehner’s blocking China currency now --- new pressures demand capital</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">W</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">all **S**treet **J**ournal **11/10** (2011, “US rep brooks challenges house speaker on china currency policy” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20111110-715673.html]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rep. Mo Brooks</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> (R., Ala.)</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">is challenging …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> any dissent among the rank and file.</span></span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12.5pt;">2NC AT: Boehner PC not key</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Political cover key to Boehner blocking the discharge petition</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Tonelson 10/26</span>**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;"> (Alan. Research Fellow, U.S. Business and Industry Educational Foundation. [[http://americaneconomicalert.org/view_art.asp?Prod_ID=4891]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">At the same time, some of Boehner’s rank and file appear to be playing ….</span>**__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">reporters and analysts, but never actually made.</span>__**</span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">GOP leadership key to keeping Rogers off the discharge petition- he’s key to getting GOP momentum</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Sargent 10/4</span>**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;"> (Greg. [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/plum-line/post/will-house-gop-let-china-bill-come-to-a-vote/2011/03/03/gIQAzIiKLL_blog.html]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">The central question</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> at the heart of the battle</span> **__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">over</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> the</span> **__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Chinese currency</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> …. on the jurisdiction of the committee that has jurisdiction over the issue in question. Rogers then took his name off of it. (A GOP leadership spokesman declined to comment.)</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Boehner is key to checking discharge petition- motivated majority can override him</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Galston 10/11</span>**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;"> (William. Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution. Contributing Editor, The New Republic. [[http://www.npr.org/2011/10/11/141229657/new-republic-caught-between-china-and-congress]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">And speaking of politics, what about the House and the White House? John Boehner …</span>**__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">override the Speaker's wishes.</span>__**</span>



=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12.5pt;">2NC AT: compartmentalization</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And, Boehner’s PC is comparatively more determinative of legislative outcomes – prefer our statistical analysis</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">King & Zeckhauser ‘3</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (David C. King, Associate Professor of Public Policy, and Richard J. Zeckhauser, Professor of Political Economy, Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, “Congressional Vote Options,” Legislative Studies Quarterly, 28(3), August 2003, p.403-4, http://www.hks.harvard.edu/fs/rzeckhau/vote_options.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">This article examines how vote options are employed on one side of an issue and … we find the telltale signs of vote options that have been secured and selectively released.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Political capital is the capacity to remove political obstacles through cooperation</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Harvey 3</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> ( University of Mississippi School of Business Administration Dean and Global Harvey 03 (Michael. Dean and Hearin Chair of Global Business, School of Business Administration University of Mississippi, The development of political skill and political capital by global leaders through global assignments</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The International Journal of Human Resource Management, Volume 15, Issue 7, 2004, Pages 1173 - 1188 EBSCO)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">A concomitant set of actions that needs to be undertaken by global leaders … illustrates the differences in formative characteristics between global leaders' social and political capital.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Political capital is critical to overcoming all obstacles to passage</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Harvey 3</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> ( University of Mississippi School of Business Administration Dean and Global Harvey 03 (Michael. Dean and Hearin Chair of Global Business, School of Business Administration University of Mississippi, The development of political skill and political capital by global leaders through global assignments</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The International Journal of Human Resource Management, Volume 15, Issue 7, 2004, Pages 1173 - 1188 EBSCO)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Political capital is as critical to leaders</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> in global …</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and seldom challenge his/her reputation</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">to represent diverse interests in the global organization.</span></span>



=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12.5pt;">2NC AT: no trade war</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Currency pressure on China causes nuclear war</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ivan</span> <span class="cite" style="font-size: 10pt;">Eland</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">is Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute. Dr. Eland is a graduate of Iowa State University and received an M.B.A. in applied economics and Ph.D. in national security policy from George Washington University. He has been Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, and he spent 15 years working for Congress on national security issues, including stints as an investigator for the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Principal Defense Analyst at the Congressional Budget Office – “Avoid Threatening China Over Its Currency” – May 31,</span> <span class="cite" style="font-size: 10pt;">2005</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">– http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=1515</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">At a recent hearing on Capitol Hill,</span> <span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">senators</span><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> of both parties</span> <span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">berated… avoid military confrontation</span><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Passage causes a trade war</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wall Street 10/11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, (2011, [[http://247wallst.com/2011/10/11/the-frontlines-in-a-us-china-trade-war-wmt-tgt-btu-aci-fcx-rio-wy-pcl-adm-bg-cat-de-gm-f-ge/]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">While the debate rages</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> over whether or not the US should enact legislation aimed to curb currency manipulation — and specifically the Chinese peg to the US dollar **__—__** __the <span class="itxtrstitxtrstspanitxthookspan">[[http://247wallst.com/2011/10/11/the-frontlines-in-a-us-china-trade-war-wmt-tgt-btu-aci-fcx-rio-wy-pcl-adm-bg-cat-de-gm-f-ge/|__impact__]]</span> of such legislation has been made abundantly … **all-out trade war between the US and China**, reminiscent of the trade wars following the Smoot-Hawley tariffs of the 1930s.__</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">100% chance of China retaliation</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ABC News</span>** **<span style="font-size: 10pt;">10/11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (2011, [[http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2011/10/will-currency-manipulation-bill-ignite-trade-war-with-china/]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">But opponents of the bill point out that trying to force China …</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">100 percent chance China will retaliate.”</span>__**</span>



====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">1NC Payroll Tax Cuts (Glenbrooks)</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Obama pushing payroll tax – it will pass – and it will require PC</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Stein 11-10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">-11 (Sam. Journalist. Huffington Post. On Payroll Tax Cut, Obama Administration Plotting Year-End Showdown [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/11/10/payroll-tax-cut-obama-administration-year-end-showdown_n_1086761.html]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">Top officials in</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the Obama</span> <span class="underline0" style="font-size: 10pt;">administration</span><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> on … additional year or so, the White House and Congress should work to make it permanent.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Plan kills political capital.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Handberg 11**<span style="font-size: 5.5pt;"> - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]])</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 5.5pt;">The US space program remained focused, not on duplicating Apollo, but on achieving another difficult …</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">now the small ball approach becomes your mantra.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">PC key to payroll tax cut - that’s key to the economy</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Philadelphia Inquirer, 9-8</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">-2011, “Don’t expect miracles on job growth,” [[http://articles.philly.com/2011-09-08/news/30130709_1_jobs-plan-american-economy-rare-tax]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">The fundamental problem in the American …concern for keeping Social Security financially sound. It's an ironic argument, coming from a party that made a major effort to privatize Social Security.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">PTC key to Obama in 2012</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Moberg 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (David. Staff Writer, “Will Obama’s Job Plan Save His?” In These Times, [[http://inthesetimes.com/article/12163/will_obamas_job_plan_save_his|__http://inthesetimes.com/article/12163/will_obamas_job_plan_save_his__]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">Even if Obama’s new jobs bill, which was proposed in September, did not face a stone wall of Republican opposition (it died in the Senate in early October), it would not solve America’s economic problems. But</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the ideas in the plan, …</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">by 1.34 percentage points, a small but not insignificant edge.</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">GOP victory ends checks on climate</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Becker, 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Director of the Presidential Climate Action Project, 5/18</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Bill, “In 2012, vote for climate courage”, 5/18/2011, accessed 6/24/2011 [[http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/05/18/208113/2012-vote-climate-courage/]] )</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">Almost</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">every prominent Republican who has announced</span>__** **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">” with China, Japan and India, who are “laughing at America’s stupidity”. Oh, and he has a piece of coastal real estate he wants to sell us.)</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Warming causes extinction</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tickell, 2008</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">[Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Guardian, 8-11, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told …</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">warming caused by human emissionscould propel us towards a</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">similar</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">hothouse Earth</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span></span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12.5pt;">2NC overview</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">warming makes wars more likely</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Zinni, 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">- Sanford Distinguished Lecturer in Residence at Duke University, Nimitz Chair at the University of California-Berkeley, the Hofheimer Chair at the Joint Forces Staff College, the Harriman Professor of Government on the board of the Reves Center for International Studies at the College of William and Mary, Weissberg Chair in International Studies at Beloit College, former Commander in Chief of CENTCOM</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Anthony, “National Security and the Threat of Climate Change,” http://securityandclimate.cna.org/report/National%20Security%20and%20the%20Threat%20of%20Climate%20Change.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Climate change acts as a threat multiplier for instability in …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and reconstruction efforts once a conflict has begun.</span></span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12.5pt;">2NC Uniqueness</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A. Occupy Wall Street</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Youngman 11-10-11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Sam. Correspondent. The Hill. White House thinks Obama has regained 'upper hand' with GOP on economy [[http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/192973-white-house-thinks-obama-has-regained-upper-hand-with-gop]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">White House press secretary Jay Carney offered tepid support for a … Vice President Biden and Cabinet secretaries, one official said.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">B. Election year politics</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wiesenthal 11-11-11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Joe. Journalist. Business Insider. The Most Important Question In Washington: Is A Massive Tax Hike Just A Few Weeks Away?[[http://www.businessinsider.com/the-debate-over-the-payroll-tax-extension-2011-11]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">There's been a lot of discussion about the deficit super-committee lately, …</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, to avoid alienating voters in an election year</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Republicans are tentatively on board -</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Espo 10-19-11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (David. Staff writer “Yes, parts of the jobs bill will pass,” CBS News,</span> <span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/10/19/opinion/main20122726.shtml]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Congress will almost certainly approve</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> … to help the states hire teachers and first responders, $30 billion for school modernization and $15 billion for a neighborhood stabilization fund.</span></span>

=====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12.5pt;">2NC AT: obama not pushing</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama is investing political capital on the payroll tax now -</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Youngman 11/10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Sam. Correspondent. The Hill. White House thinks Obama has regained 'upper hand' with GOP on economy [[http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/192973-white-house-thinks-obama-has-regained-upper-hand-with-gop]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">President</span> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama has regained the “upper hand”</span>__** **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> the official said. If the GOP continues to follow Norquist, one official said, “that's not a problem we can solve.” “That's on them,” the official said.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The economy is the BOTTOM LINE issue for the election – he’s investing all the capital he has to fix it.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Werner 10/26</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Erica. Staff writer, 10-26-2011, “For Obama, new focus on the piecemeal,” AP. [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jBBAuCkwwz36b0l5ZSe63veDz47Q?docId=c480f4a9b7634e9f8e0fd60ddd74c5ef]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Congress has shown only rare signs of late of giving …He's got to try to do everything he can."</span>__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> </span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">1NC Military Clean Energy (Berkeley)</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Military clean energy is the top of the docket and will pass now-Obama is pushing hard</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">National Journal 2/10</span> (White House Budget to Expand Clean-Energy Programs Through Pentagon, [[http://www.nationaljournal.com/2013-budget/white-house-budget-to-expand-clean-energy-programs-through-pentagon-20120210?page=1]])

__The White House believes it has figured out how to get ….__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">-efficiency programs across its departments.</span>



**Plan kills political capital.** 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Handberg 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, </span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]]</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">)</span>



<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">The US space program remained focused, not on duplicating …</span> **__the economy recovers and deficits are under control.__** The home run approach has run its course at least for a time; now the small ball approach becomes your mantra.





<span style="font-size: 16px;">Political capital is key to securing his clean energy budget</span>

Pheobe <span style="font-size: 16px;">Draper</span>, Brown Herald staff writer, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2/10</span> (http://www.browndailyherald.com/undergrad-finds-trend-in-climate-rhetoric-1.2698681#.Tza2qVF9nww)

__Obama's change in rhetoric … time. Global warming is still a contentious issue, but energy production isn't quite so much__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">."</span>



<span style="font-size: 16px;">Key to hegemony</span>

Ray <span style="font-size: 16px;">Mabus</span>, Secretary of the Navy, 3/2/<span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span>. http://www.navy.mil/navydata/people/secnav/Mabus/Speech/ARPAe02Mar11.pdf

To use your director’s own words, “__Our dependence on fossil fuels severely threatens our national__ and environmental __security due to our growing foreign energy independence. We as a nation …, even if damaged, becomes absolutely critical for the success of these ships.__ 



**Heg collapse causes nuclear war**

**Kagan, 7** <span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">(Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, //Policy Review,// August/Sept, “End of Dreams, Return of History”)</span>



<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">If </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">the world is</span>__ __marked by the persistence of ….__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> into the future, no </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">one should imagine that a reduction of American power</span>__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> or a retraction of American influence and global involvement </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">will provide an easier path</span>__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">.</span>





==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">K's</span>== 



===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cap K</span>=== 

**Science fiction is a commodity – it’s packaged and manipulated by profit-driven publishers**

**Elkins and Suvin 1979** – former editor of Science Fiction Studies AND Professor Emeritus at McGill University (November, Charles and Darko, “ Preliminary Reflections on Teaching Science Fiction Critically ” Science Fiction Studies, Vol. 6, No. 3, JSTOR)

__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">SF shares with other paraliterary some aspects</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> very important, …. (see Roland Barthes' Mythologies).</span>



**Capitalism necessarily turns to space militarization as a guarantor of its expansion via dispossession of foreign lands—this perpetuates the very interventionist mindset they hope to prevent**

**__Dickens and Ormrod 7__** __- *Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences at the University of Cambridge and Visiting Professor of Sociology, University of Essex and **James, Lecturer in Sociology at the University of Brighton__ 

__(Cosmic Society: Towards a sociology of the universe, pg 77-79, IWren)__

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In this chapter we turn our attention to trying to theorize … its military handmaiden is in practice by no means guaranteed. </span>



**No value to life in capitalism.**

**__Sancho, ’11__** __**–**__ chair of the Annual World Conferences on the Science of Duality

[Louis Sancho; “Fukyshima: Dying for Japan Inc.;” published 3/29/2011; <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cerntruth.com/?p=257]]</span> ] Jay



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">I know you don’t believe me. I know you think … but use weapons to come up on top), we can interpret the world as it is, including Fukushima.</span>





**Alt – vote negative to reject the flawed methodology of the affirmative.**



**The alternative is the only way out – we need to analyze the flaws in the system to find the preconditions for movements away from capitalism and its inevitable collapse – this is key to develop a real political strategy to counter their harms**

**Carroll 10** – *founding director of the Social Justice Studies Program at the University of Victoria

(William, “Crisis, movements, counter-hegemony: in search of the new,” Interface 2:2, 168-198, dml

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In the most general terms and at the highest level of abstraction, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">…. and contradictions, securing</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the active, agentic consent of </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">subalterns to their subordination</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (De Leon, Desai and Tuğal 2009: 216; Joseph 2002).</span>



===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Security</span>=== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The affirmative’s attempt to extend into space creates a form of politics entrenched in rationalist thinking which only replicates the harms they wish to avoid</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sheehan 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> -Distinguished Fellow at the Center on Law and Security (2007, Michael, pp. 5-19 “The International Politics of Space,” [[http://bib.tiera.ru/dvd64/Sheehan%20M.%20-%20The%20International%20Politics%20of%20Space%282007%29%28248%29.pdf|http://bib.tiera.ru/dvd64/Sheehan%20M.%20-%20The%20International%20Politics%20of%20Space(2007)(248).pdf]], liam)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The fact that</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">Outer</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space has been a realm</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… in the inside/outside issues of post-sovereignty represented by human activities beyond the Earth’s atmosphere</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">. Xx</span></span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">their ontological commitment to global order renders all life calculable and is the root cause of violent conflict</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Burke, 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason 10:2 | [[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.library.emory.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2burke.html#copyright|©]] 2007 Anthony Burke War as a Way of Being: Lebanon 2006 (PhD, Anthony Burke was appointed to UNSW@ADFA in February 2008, after three years in the School of Social Sciences and International Studies at UNSW Sydney (2005-7) Theory & Event, Project Muse).</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bacon thought of the new scientific method not merely … obstacles, useful or obstinate matter.</span>__</span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Alternative:</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> reject the security fetishism of the aff, their flawed methodology and discourse to eschew the logic of security.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The alternative solves</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">- breaking out of our obsession with security allows alternative relationships to the future</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Neocleous</span>__**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;"> 20**__08__**</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Mark is a Professor at Brunel University, Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History, he joined Brunel University in the Department of Government in 1994. Since then he has published numerous books and articles. His most recent work has been towards the development of a critique of security. “CRITIQUE OF SECURITY” 2008. Pg. 185-186, MT)</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">The only way out of such a dilemma, **to escape the fetish**, is … out and handing it to the state; **it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift.**</span>__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">143</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">2NC overview</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">K turns the case</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sheehan 7</span>__** __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">-</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Distinguished Fellow at the Center on Law and Security (2007, Michael, pp. 5-19 “The International Politics of Space,” [[http://bib.tiera.ru/dvd64/Sheehan%20M.%20-%20The%20International%20Politics%20of%20Space%282007%29%28248%29.pdf|http://bib.tiera.ru/dvd64/Sheehan%20M.%20-%20The%20International%20Politics%20of%20Space(2007)(248).pdf]], liam)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Introduction</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">How should we think about space? It …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> Astronautics voted to ban its members from using astronautical research for military purposes.5</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC framework</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Representations matter, their discourse turns the case</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Grondin, 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> David Grondin Assistant Professor, School of Political Studies, University of Ottawa (as of July 2006) Paper presented at the ISA Convention, San Diego March 25, 2006 Panel “Reading Outer Space I: The International Politics of Outer Space - Approaches and Themes” THE (POWER) POLITICS OF SPACE: THE US ASTROPOLITICAL DISCOURSE OF GLOBAL DOMINANCE IN THE WAR ON TERROR</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">Indeed,</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">we have no way of knowing how other state … **could lead to its very opposite by allowing space weaponization to still be possible, if not inevitable.**</span>__</span>



====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: perm</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the 1AC’s discourse precludes alternate epistemological understandings</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It’s all or nothing</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Grondin 6</span>** <span style="font-size: 5.5pt;">David Grondin Assistant Professor, School of Political Studies, University of Ottawa (as of July 2006) Paper presented at the ISA Convention, San Diego March 25, 2006 Panel “Reading Outer Space I: The International Politics of Outer Space - Approaches and Themes” THE (POWER) POLITICS OF SPACE: THE US ASTROPOLITICAL DISCOURSE OF GLOBAL DOMINANCE IN THE WAR ON TERROR</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 5.5pt;">…. opposite by allowing space weaponization to still be possible, if not inevitable.</span>**</span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Conflicting ideaologies prevents a successful alternative</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Burke</span>__**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;"> 20**__02__**</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Anthony, School of Political Science and International Studies, University of Queensland , “Aporias of Security”, Questia, MT)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">Thus humanist critiques of security uncover an</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">aporia</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> …" through a reading of Hobbes, Locke, the utilitarian philosopher Jeremy Bentham, and Hegel, using Foucault's writings on governmental reason as a loose template.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: cede the political</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Link turn- Critical theory has never killed a progressive movement but instead has helped them</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Brown</span>__**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;"> 20**__05__**</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Edgework: Critical Essays on Knowledge and Politics, Wendy, Professor of Poli Sci, UC Berkeley, MT)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">On the one hand,</span> __<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">critical theory cannot … **it renews their imaginative reach and vigor.**</span>__</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Asteroid K</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The affirmative’s global approach to the asteroid threat erases societal distinctions and subordinates all other questions to the nature of the hazard itself.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hewitt 07</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – (2007, Kenneth, PhD in geomorphology from London University, professor emeritus of geography and environmental studies and Research Associate at the Cold Regions Research Center at Wilfrid Laurier University, research focuses on risk and disaster theory, “Chapter 24: Social Perspectives on Comet/Asteroid Impact (CAI) Hazards: Technocratic Authority and the Geography of Social Vulnerability,” published in __Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society__, ed. Peter T. Bobrowsky and Hans Rickman, springerlink DH)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">From a social perspective it is generally a mistake to base risk assessment … associated with astrophysical and geophysical sciences.</span>__</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Specifically, their use of statistics to mitigate scientific uncertainty about asteroids cements a positivistic view of daily life.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mellor 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – (Felicity, PhD in theoretical physics, lecturer on media theory and science journalism at Imperial College in London, former lecturer in astronomy at Sussex University, “Negotiating uncertainty: asteroids, risk and the media,” Public Understanding of Science 2010 19: 16, sage DH)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">Chapman and Morrison’s paper acknowledged a number of uncertainties.</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Predicting the physical</span> <span class="underline0" style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">data on other causes of death.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This turns individual people into objective units that can be calculated and manipulated.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hewitt 95</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – (1995, Kenneth, PhD in geomorphology from London University, professor emeritus of geography and environmental studies and Research Associate at the Cold Regions Research Center at Wilfrid Laurier University, research focuses on risk and disaster theory, “Excluded Perspectives in the Social Construction of Disaster,” International Journal of Mass Emergencies and Disasters, November 1995, Vol.13, No.3, pp. 317-339, google scholar DH)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">From a social perspective,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">a</span> <span class="underline0" style="font-size: 10pt;">dubious but pervasive</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">consequence of the</span> <span class="underline0" style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> unstable-which seems to reverse Porfiriev's usage.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The voiceless and universal nature of disaster discourse is a gateway to genocidal atrocity and dehumanization – their method and rhetoric matters.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hewitt 95</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – (1995, Kenneth, PhD in geomorphology from London University, professor emeritus of geography and environmental studies and Research Associate at the Cold Regions Research Center at Wilfrid Laurier University, research focuses on risk and disaster theory, “Excluded Perspectives in the Social Construction of Disaster,” International Journal of Mass Emergencies and Disasters, November 1995, Vol.13, No.3, pp. 317-339, google scholar DH)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">In recent years,</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">studies of the societal underpinnings of …That involves the methodological challenge</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of work that pays attention not just to the local conditions and communities, but to the voices of persons living there.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is to reject the “agent-specific” approach of the 1AC in favor of a post-social understanding of disaster mitigation – only a broader methodological framing of hazards can break open the research field.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Williams 08</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – (2008, Stewart, PhD, Lecturer in Geography and Environmental Studies, University of Tasmania, Australia, “Rethinking the Nature of Disaster: From Failed Instruments of Learning to a Post-Social Understanding,” Social Forces, Volume 87, Number 2, December 2008, muse DH)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Demands for new approaches to disaster intensified</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> with the tsunami … and institutions, and</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">society-environment interactions</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">."</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">2NC Overview</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">extinction</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zuleuta, 04</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Felicity de Zuleuta, MD Cambridge, Psychotherapist, Attachment and Human Survival ed Green and Scholes, 2004]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is clear that childhood experiences of violence in the family produce future patterns of violent behaviour, domestically and in the wider social setting. Furthermore, dominant social values, for example, …We shall require a substantially new way of thinking if mankind is to survive". (110-119)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Structural violence kills more people than all war combined – the alt can solve.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hintjens 07</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – (Helen Hintjens is Lecturer in the Centre for Development Studies, University of Wales, “MDF Understanding Development Better,” http://udb.global-connections.nl/sites/udb.global-connections.nl/files/file/2923317.051%20-%20Position%20Paper%20Helen%20Hintjens.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">From Johan Galtung, famous Norwegian peace ‘guru’, still alive and heads ..</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the real problem is one of priorities</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">”…p. 307 “</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Structural violence…is neither natural nor inevitable</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">”, p. 301 (Prontzos).</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Turns case – they won’t be able to mobilize support for deflection even if their detection technology works</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hewitt 07</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – (2007, Kenneth, PhD in geomorphology from London University, professor emeritus of geography and environmental studies and Research Associate at the Cold Regions Research Center at Wilfrid Laurier University, research focuses on risk and disaster theory, “Chapter 24: Social Perspectives on Comet/Asteroid Impact (CAI) Hazards: Technocratic Authority and the Geography of Social Vulnerability,” published in __Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society__, ed. Peter T. Bobrowsky and Hans Rickman, springerlink DH)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wider public support will also depend upon how far …findings and reflection on their significance</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.5pt;"> (Beck 1992).</span></span>



====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: FW</span>**</span>==== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Assuming the role of the legislator cedes our role in shaping social change—only our individual thoughts and actions are important.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kappeler 95</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University (Susanne,</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Will to Violence</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, p. 10-11)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">We are the war' does not mean that the responsibility for a war is shared collectively and diffusely by an entire society ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">our values' according to the structures and the values of war and violence</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">2NC AT: Perm</span>==== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Perm can’t solve – alt is mutually exclusive with the aff</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hewitt 95</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – (1995, Kenneth, PhD in geomorphology from London University, professor emeritus of geography and environmental studies and Research Associate at the Cold Regions Research Center at Wilfrid Laurier University, research focuses on risk and disaster theory, “Excluded Perspectives in the Social Construction of Disaster,” International Journal of Mass Emergencies and Disasters, November 1995, Vol.13, No.3, pp. 317-339, google scholar DH)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.5pt;">A broad range of studies in the 1970s and 80s, seemed to demonstrate …</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">from a social science perspective, I find these justified and very timely concerns.</span>__</span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transhumanism</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">extinction is not inevitable – human ingenuity, technology and democracy mean that the probability of human survival is higher than ever before</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Peiser, 2007<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Benny, Ph.D. and Social Anthropologist at Liverpool John Moores University, “Existential Risks and Democratic Peace”, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/7081804.stm)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In recent years<span style="font-size: 8px;">, </span>leading scientists <span style="font-size: 8px;">in the UK, such as Brandon Carter…</span>hitherto stage of history.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">Their criticism of science and technology results in mass skepticism and supplants support of new tech</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Hughes 6</span><span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;"> doctorate in sociology from the University of Chicago, sociologist and bioethicist teaching health policy at Trinity College (James, “Democratic Transhumanism 2.0, modified 1/6/06, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">http://www.changesurfer.com/Acad/DemocraticTranshumanism.htm</span><span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">The Estrangement of Technology and the Left So why did these two … technology was something GE and IBM did in TV ads to cover up their complicity in napalming babies. Activists fight the machine. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">Ivory tower skepticism spills over to the public and crushes progress</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Raman 9 </span><span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">Masters in Math from University of Calcutta, quantum mechanics doctorate from University of Paris(Varadarajara, 1/23/09, “Global Spiral”, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">http://www.metanexus.net/Magazine/ArticleDetail/tabid/68/id/10678/Default.aspx</span><span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">Next </span><span class="Underline">there are philosophical reasons for </span>the anti-science movements<span class="Underline">, …</span><span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;"> with can do immense harm to their peoples. In this sense </span><span class="Underline">philosophical anti-science is perhaps the most dangerous of all. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**The alternative is to embrace democratic transhumanism- it’s the best way to solve all problems**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Bostrom 3**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> PhD from the London School of Economics (Nick, 2003, “Transhumanism FAQ”, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">http://www.paulbroman.com/myspace/Transhumanism_FAQ.txt</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">Shouldn’t we concentrate on current problems such as …</span> __transhumanist efforts. Even one extra person can still make a significant difference here.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Tranhumanism solves disease, aging, rape, and violence**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Bostrom 9**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> PhD from the London School of Economics (Nick, 2/5/2009, “IN DEFENSE OF POSTHUMAN DIGNITY”, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">http://www.psy.vanderbilt.edu/courses/hon182/Posthuman_dignity_Bostrom.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">The prospect of </span>__posthumanity is feared for at least … reform ourselves and our natures in accordance with humane values and personal aspirations.__</span>


====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NC Overview</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**3. Every day we don’t embrace transhumanism kills 150,000 people. We must take an immediate step to shift to this worldview towards __all individuals,__ not simply elites**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**BOSTROM 2005**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Nick, Oxford University, Faculty of Philosophy, “Transhumanist Values,” Last Mod Sept 17, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/ethics/values.html]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">Wide access</span>__. It is not enough that the posthuman … **only if the benefits of technologies are widely shared and if**__ <span style="font-size: 11px;">they are made available as soon as possible, preferably</span> **__within our lifetime.__**</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**4. we solve your offense - Rationality can be combined with other modes of thought to produce effective politics**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Harris 4<span style="font-size: 11px;">Sam, Co-Founder and CEO of </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">Project Reason</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, a nonprofit foundation devoted to spreading scientific knowledge and secular values in society. He received a degree in philosophy from Stanford University and a Ph.D. in neuroscience from </span>//<span style="font-size: 11px;">The End of Faith</span>//<span style="font-size: 11px;">, p. 43 RB</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__We cannot live by reason alone__<span style="font-size: 11px;">. This is why no …</span> __must we renounce all forms of spirituality or mysticism to be on good terms with reason.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">5. Science is a </span><span class="Underline">comparatively better</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> system of authority than any alternative- their effort to prioritize their alternative, relativistic worldview </span><span class="Underline">reinforces</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> bad instances of domination</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Benson, 2006, </span><span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">Ophelia, editor of the website Butterflies and Wheels and deputy editor of The Philosophers' Magazine “Why Truth Matters,” p 63-64, KHaze</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The basic claim<span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;"> of Strange Weather </span><span class="Underline">is </span>that science’s authority<span class="Underline">, …</span> self-refuting problem we always see in epistemic relativism is here in its most obvious form<span class="Underline">.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Turns the case**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Harris 4<span style="font-size: 11px;">Sam, Co-Founder and CEO of </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">Project Reason</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, a nonprofit foundation devoted to spreading scientific knowledge and secular values in society. He received a degree in philosophy from Stanford University and a Ph.D. in neuroscience from </span>//<span style="font-size: 11px;">The End of Faith</span>//<span style="font-size: 11px;">, p. 19-20 RB</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Religious moderation springs from the fact that even … texts will be no more useful to mystics than they now are to astronomers__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;"> 2NC science good</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**The critique refuses to accept the same falsifiable review our evidence goes through – disproves their methodology, destroys academic debate, and causes extinction.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Coyne, 06**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Supernatural forces and events, essential aspects … other contenders are subjected.”</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> As science in America becomes ever more harried and debased by politics and religion, we desperately need to heed Crews’s plea for empiricism.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">Truth provides us reassurance and peace in the mind- obeying facts given to us by authority is the most liberating action</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Benson, 2006, </span><span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">Ophelia, editor of the website Butterflies and Wheels and deputy editor of The Philosophers' Magazine “Why Truth Matters,” p. 3-4, KHaze</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This role of Authority<span class="Underline">- to tell people what to believe and think</span><span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">…</span> of all these is the clarity, the lack of ambiguity<span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;"> (unless one notices the places where holy books contradict themselves, but people seem not to).</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Even if we can’t completely transcend the social, we can still make predictions about the world.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Alcoff 2001, </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">Linda Martín, Professor of Philosophy, Political Science, and Women's Studies at Syracuse University, New Literary History 32.4 (2001) 835-848, Objectivity and Its Politics </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">Mohanty's more general claim--a claim that is targeted not only …</span> of knowing quite a lot about things as they appear and behave in our world<span style="font-size: 11px;">, or in our concernful relation with them, as Heidegger put it. </span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;"> 2NC links</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**The affs critique stifles the transition to democratic transhumanism**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**RAMAN 2009** <span style="font-size: 11px;">(Varadaraja, Bachelor's and Master's degrees in Physics and Mathematics from the University of Calcutta before doing his doctoral work on the foundations of quantum mechanics at the University of Paris Global Spiral, Feb 6, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">http://www.metanexus.net/Magazine/ArticleDetail/tabid/68/id/10697/Default.aspx</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">Science is in a similar situation now. Postmodernist critiques are to …. declamations against science seem like mere noises.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Critiquing the current knowledge system kills billions of people—the environmental crisis is real, but we need more technology, not less—transhumanism breaks all the limits to a new ecologically healthy world**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Bostrom 3**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> PhD from the London School of Economics (Nick, 2003, “Transhumanism FAQ”, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">http://www.paulbroman.com/myspace/Transhumanism_FAQ.txt</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">) \</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Population increase is an issue we__ <span style="font-size: 11px;">would </span>__… a clean environment that today’s traditional environmentalists could scarcely dream of__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NC framework</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Debate is a key to promote the pragmatic attitude of transhumanism**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**BOSTROM 2005**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Nick, Oxford University, Faculty of Philosophy, “Transhumanist Values,” Last Mod Sept 17, http://www.nickbostrom.com/ethics/values.html)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Another transhumanist priority is to put ourselves ….__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> in the sense of advocating an inflated belief in the probability of success or in the Panglossian sense of inventing excuses for the shortcomings of the status quo.)</span></span>




=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 19pt;">2NR's</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 17pt;">Umich RR</span>== 



===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 2 v. New Trier (SPS)</span>=== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: T human, Spending, Politics, Case</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Block: T, case, politics</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NR: T</span>







===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 4 v. Caddo Magnet (Critical Neolib Aff)</span>=== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: T beyond, Framework, Courts, Elections, Case</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Block: T beyond, Framework, case</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NR: Framework</span>





===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 6 v. Berkely Prep (AEHF satellites)</span>=== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: T human, T beyond, Adv CP, Politics, Spending, Security K, case</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Block: T, Security, case</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NR: T</span>





===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 9 v. Stratford (ORS)</span>=== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: T human, Near Space CP, LEO DA, politics, PLA DA</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Block: T human, case, LEO DA</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NR: T</span>



==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 17pt;">Umich Tournament</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 2 v. Johns Creek (Lunar Quarantine Aff)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: Adv Cp, Spending, Politics, Security, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Block: Adv Cp, Spending, Case, Politics</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NR: Adv Cp, Spending</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 3 v. Westminister (air traffic control aff)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: Adv Cp, Spending, T human, Politics, Security, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Block: T, Adv CP, Politics, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NR: T human</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 5 v. St Ignatius (Satellite Hardening)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: T human, Spending, Politics, PLA DA, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Block: PLA DA, case, Spending</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NR: PLA DA, case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 6 v. Westminister (Asteroids)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: T human, Prizes CP, Spending, Politics, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Block: Prizes CP, case, Spending</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NR: Spending, case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Doubles v. Westiminister (Asteroids)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: T human, Russia CP, Spending, Asteroids K, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Block: Asteroids K, case, Spending</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NR: asteroids k</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Octos v. Pace (SSA)</span>=== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: T human, SSA CP, Spending, case + turns</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Block: T huuman, SSA Cp, case + turns, Spending</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NR: case turns</span>



==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 17pt;">Glenbrooks Tournament</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 2 v. Westminister (Asteroids)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: T human, Spending, Politics, Asteroids K, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Block: T human, case, politics</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NR: T human</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 3 v. Ft Lauderdale (asteroid mining)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: Politics, Adv Cp, Spending, Asteroids K, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Block: Spending, Adv Cp, case, Politics</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2nr: politics, spending, case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 5 v. Wayzata (sps)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: T human, Prizes Cp, Politics, case</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Block: Case + turns, politics</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2nr: politics, case</span>



===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Doubles v. Iowa City West (Sps)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: T human, Politics, case</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Block: T, case, Politics</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">2nr: T</span>


==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">Alta Tournament </span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">Round 2 v. Rowland Hall St. Marks (ORS)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">1NC: T Human, OSTP CP, Near Space CP, LEO DA, Politics, Security K, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block; LEO DA, Politics Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr: Politics and case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 3 v. West (Heidegger)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: Framework, Case Specific CP, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: Framework, CP, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr: Framework and case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 5 v. GBN (space debris)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: T humans/beyond, russia cp, politics, EDDE cp, Weaponization DA, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: T humans/beyond, case, politics</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NR: T humans/beyond</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 7 v. Rowland Hall St Marks (ORS)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: T humans, Near space cp, Leo DA, PLA DA, politics, Security, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: PLA DA, Leo DA, case, politics</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NR: politics, case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Finals v. Notre Dame (ORS)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: T humans, Near Space Cp, LEO DA, politics, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: Near Space CP, LEO DA, case, politics</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr: politics, case</span>

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Pinecrest (Crestian) Tournament</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 2 vs. Carrolton</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: Politics, T human, Batteries CP, Weaponization</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: Batterie CP, Weaponization, case, T, Politics</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NR: Weaponization, politics, case</span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 4 vs. Woodward</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: Russia CP, Politics, Launches DA, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: Case, Politics</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr: Politics, Case</span>



===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 5 vs. Carrolton</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: T human, politics, demonstrate PIC, Security K, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: demonstrate PIC, case + turns, K</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr: PIC</span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Semis vs. Juan Diego</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: T human, politics, case specific cp, T its, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: case specific cp, politics, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr: case specific cp, politics</span>

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Emory</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 1 vs. Westminster LM (SPS)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: T-Human, Politics, Prizes CP, case </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: T-Human, Politics, Case </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NR: Politics and case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 4 vs. BCC MN (Space Commons)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: Framework, Realism DA, Case Specific CP, LEO DA, Launches DA, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: Counterplan, Realism, Case </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NR: Counterplan and Case turns</span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 5 vs. Calhoun BM (Transcendentalism) </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: Framework (must have plan text),T-Human,transhumanism k, case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: transhumanism k, Framework, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NR: must have a plan</span>



==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Berkeley</span>== 

===Round 2 vs. Cyprus Bay (district 9 aff)=== 

1NC: FW (with must have a plan), T (human, beyond), cap K, case



Block: FW, T, Cap K, case



2nr: FW, T


===Round 4 vs. Marist (Space Corps)=== 

1NC: T human + beyond, politics, XO CP, security K, case



Block: T, case, politics



2nr: T





===Round 5 vs. Head Royce (space marines)=== 

1NC: T human, PIC, politics, XO cp, case



Block: T, PIC



2nr: T



===Doubles vs. Bingham (BMD)=== 

1nC: T human, PIC, politics, security, case



Block: T, PIC, case, Politics



2nr: PIC





===Octos vs. CPS (DSCOVR)=== 

1NC: T human, Ukraine CP, Politics, DoD Adv CP, case



Block: T human, case, politics



2nr: politics, case