[[toc]]
For Aff Cites repeatedly email: [[mailto:priyankajuneja2@gmail.com|priyankajuneja2@gmail.com]]
For Neg Cites email: [[mailto:surajgotevil@gmail.com|surajgotevil@gmail.com]]

----
=Affirmative= 

==1AC Barkley Forum==

**LSP** - Check Other Wikis

==1AC Carrollton==

===Plan=== 

**Plan: The United States Federal Government should develop an Orion-type fusion launch vehicle with External Pulsed Plasma Propulsion.**

===Mining Advantage===
**Lunar Exploration and Settlement are key US Space Leadership and Mining**
Jeffrey 5/26(Terrence P Jeffrey, Editor in Chief of CNS News, “Former Moon Astronaut and Senator: U.S. Should Settle Moon and Mars” http://www.cnsnews.com/news/article/former-moon-astronaut-and-senator-us-sho, 5/26/ 2011) SV
He now believes America’s ...fuel for nuclear fusion reactors.”

**Fusion rockets enable this**
Winterberg, 89  (October 1989, Posted online August 7, 2009, Friedwardt Winterberg,  Research Professor at the University of Nevada, Reno, PhD in physics, winner of the 1979 Hermann Oberth Gold Medal of the Wernher von Braun International Space Flight Foundation, “Colonizing Space With Fusion Propulsion,”  Colonizing Space With Fusion Propulsion, ngoetz)
Nevertheless, for the last ...for the future of civilization. 

**Lunar dominance uniquely enables overall leadership---bolsters hard and soft power---now is key**
Spudis 10 – Paul D. Spudis, Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, February 9, 2010, “The New Space Race,” online: http://www.spudislunarresources .com/Opinion_Editorial/NewSpaceRace.pdf
In one of his early speeches defending ... abandon the Vision for Space Exploration. 

**3- scenarios**

**1) Transition Wars**

**Heg key to stability – transition away will fail and result in war**
Zhang and Shi 11 [Yuhan, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Lin Shi, Columbia University, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” January 22nd, 2011  http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/
Over the past two decades, no ...inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

**2) Free Trade**

**Heg kt free trade**
Walt 02 Academic Dean at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, Robert and Renee Belfer Professorship in International Affairs 
(Stephen, “American Primacy: It’s prospects and pitfalls”, Naval War College Review, Spring 2002, Vol. LV, No. 2)
By facilitating the development of ...Without America on duty, there will be no America Online

**Free trade solves all war scenarios **
Griswold 98(, Associated Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the CATO Institute, 98 (Daniel, “Peace on Earth, Free Trade for Men,” 31 Dec, http://www.cato.org/dailys/12-31-98.html)
Advocates of free trade ...pursue a policy of free trade

**3) Resource Wars**
**Control of He3 Resources is Key to Prevent Future Resource Wars**
Lasker 10 (John Lasker, Freelance Journalist-Major contributor for magazines (eg. Wired & Christian Science Monitor), "Technoir", http://www.godlikeproductions.com/forum1/ message1363174/pg1, 4/3/2010) SV
Back in 1998, representatives from Halliburton ...just be a resource war that ends the human race

**Resource wars cause extinction**
Klare 6(Michael T. Klare Ph.D, Professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire University, “The Coming Resource Wars” http://www.alternet.org/story/33243/the_coming_resource_wars, 3/10/2006)
It's official: the era of resource ...involvement in these forms of conflict.

===Exploration Advantage===
**Extinction is inevitable from expanding sun, asteroids, warming, or disease if we don’t get off the rock**
Austen, 11 [Ben Austen, contributing editor of Harper’s Magazine, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet,” popular science, http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=3]
Earth won’t always be fit for occupation. We know that in two billion ...be more human beings who live off the Earth than on it.”

**Space colonization is key to reduce the risk of extinction**
Jason G. Matheny, Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University, Ph.D. Candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Master’s in Public Health from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, 2007 (“Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, Available Online at http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm, Accessed 07-04-2011)
As for astronomical risks, to ...fundamentally about the survival of the species

**EPPP allows us to colonize Mars – shorter trip times, broader return window, and better payload**
Bonometti et al 2k ( 19 January 2000, J. A. Bonometti, P. J. Morton and G. R. Schmidt, Space Technology and Applications International Forum-2000, Volume 504, pp. 1236-1241, “External Pulsed Plasma Propulsion.” http://www.angelfire.com/stars2/projectorion/EPPP.html, ngoetz)
Application #1: Human Interplanetary ...space environment and long periods of weightlessness

**EPPP is inexpensive, safe, quick and allows us to colonize the entire solar system**
Ragheb 11 (5/5/2011,  Magdi Ragheb, Associate Professor of nuclear, plasma, and radiological engineering,  Ph.D. Nuclear Engineering, “Nuclear And Plasma Space Propulsion,” 
https://netfiles.uiuc.edu/mragheb/www/NPRE%20402%20ME%20405%20Nuclear%20Power%20Engineering/Nuclear%20and%20Plasma%20Space%20Propulsion.pdf, ngoetz)
As initially considered in the Orion...human exploration and colonization

**Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — the math is conclusively on our side**
Nick Bostrom, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011 (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html, Accessed 07-04-2011)
Holding probability constant, risks become more serious ...positive value of the direct benefit of such an action.[13]

**Catastrophic impacts pale in comparison to existential ones — their impacts are recoverable setbacks while ours end the game**
Nick Bostrom, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2009 (“The Future of Humanity,” Geopolitics, History and International Relations, Volume 9, Issue 2, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via ProQuest Research Library, Reprinted Online at http://www.nickbostrom.com/papers/future.pdf, Accessed 07-06-2011, p. 11)
Extinction risks constitute an especially severe subset ...giant massacre for man, a small misstep for mankind.

**An Orion type fusion vehicle is the only way to go to the moon mars and beyond**
Winterberg 8 (March 2008, Friedwardt Winterberg,  Research Professor at the University of Nevada, Reno, PhD in physics, winner of the 1979 Hermann Oberth Gold Medal of the Wernher von Braun International Space Flight Foundation, , “Pure Nuclear Fusion Bomb Propulsion,” arxiv.org/pdf/0803.3636, ngoetz)
With chemical propulsion manned ...the British Interplanetary Society [6

**The plan is cost effective, safe, technologically feasible today and the only way to get to mars today**
Ragheb 11 (5/5/2011,  Magdi Ragheb, Associate Professor of nuclear, plasma, and radiological engineering,  Ph.D. Nuclear Engineering, “Nuclear And Plasma Space Propulsion,” https://netfiles.uiuc.edu/mragheb/www/NPRE%20402%20ME%20405%20Nuclear%20Power%20Engineering/Nuclear%20and%20Plasma%20Space%20Propulsion.pdf, ngoetz)
This is a nuclear propulsion concept generating ...a Mars mission in the twenty first century.

==1AC Wake Forest==

===Plan=== 

**PLAN - The United States Federal Government should fund, purchase, and develop Solar Power Satellites.**

===Warming Advantage=== 

**Warming is real and caused by humans**
Dessler, ’10, March 6, 2010, (Chronicle, On Global Warming, the science is solid, http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/editorial/outlook/6900556.html)
In recent months, e-mails...dominant influence on our climate. 

**Solar Powered Satellites are key to avoid warming’s “tipping point” of the worst impacts**
Hsu, 10, Dr. Feng , Sr. Vice President Systems Engineering & Risk Management Space Energy Group, Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html)
It has become increasingly evident ...beings can use in a whole year. 

**Must act now to prevent extinction**
Tyree, 7 – 13 – 08  Geologist Formerly @ State Dept. Env. Protection of West Virginia
(Mel,  Charleston Gazette, “We have one year to save climate”, L/N)
If there is a silver lining...either we'll have an Arctic ice cap or we won't.

**SPS is the only technology that can actually solve warming**
Dr. Feng Hsu, 10, Sr. Vice President Systems Engineering & Risk Management Space Energy Group, Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html)
Solar Energy vs. Other Forms of Renewable Sources...models for overcoming these issues. 

**SPS solves Energy**
NSSO, 2007, SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, (National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf)
A single kilometer-wide band...gigawatts of electric power. 

**SPS solves internationally also – we’ll give to other nations**
Taylor Dinerman, 2007, author and journalist, October 22, 2007, (The Space Review, China, the US, and space solar power,http://www.thespacereview.com/article/985/1)
In spite of the major advances that ...war over energy is in everyone’s interest.

**Global warming ruins the planet**
The Guardian (U.K.), 2007 [Environmental failures 'put humanity at risk', October 26th, 2007, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2007/oct/26/climatechange, MA]
The future of humanity has been ... a sixth, human-induced, extinction is under way.

**Ocean acidification is anthropogenic**
Scott C. Doney et al 1 Marine Chemistry and Geochemistry,Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution 08 Annual Review of Marine Science, “Ocean Acidification: The Other CO2 Problem” August 29, 2008 http://fcm.ens.uabc.mx/~hbustos/TS%20OCQ/Ocean%20acidif%20Doney.pdf Herm  
Over the past 250 years, atmospheric ...acidification could be more serious for humankind.

**Causes extinction – must act now**
NYT 6/21 (David Jolly, “Oceans are at Dire Risk, Team of Scientist Warn” June 21, 2011, http://green.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/06/21/oceans-are-at-dire-risk-team-of-scientists-warns/) Herm
The state of the oceans is declining...fisheries polices and reduce pollution. 

===Leadership Advantage===

**The U.S. is gradually losing its space superiority – other countries are gaining on the U.S. aerospace sector in space despite increased U.S. military investments**
Kaufman, 08  (Mark, “US Finds It’s Getting Crowded Out There: Dominance in Space Slips as Other Nations Step Up Efforts”, Washington Post, 7/9, http://www.globalpolicy.org/empire/challenges/competitors/2008/0709space.htm)
Although the United States remains dominant...strategic implications," she said.

**This loss of leadership is destroying the U.S. defense industrial base – an investment in SPS is necessary to revitalize aerospace research and development, workforce, and infrastructure development**
NSSO, 7 (National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)
FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that...be a powerful expression of this imperative. 

**Aerospace competiveness is the vital internal link to U.S. Global Hegemony**
Walker et al, 02  - Chair of the Commission on the Futureof the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners (Robert, Final Report of the Commission on the Futureof the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, November, http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf)
Defending our nation against its...position as the world’s preeminent military power. 

**Leadership prevents global nuclear war**
Khalilzad ‘95 (Zalmay, RAND Corporation, The Washington Quarterly, Spring 1995)
On balance, this is the best long-term... a multipolar balance of power system.

===Solvency===

**Development and funding of SPS satellites is key to an effective market and US Space Leadership**
Karen Cramer Shea, ’10, Masters in Science Technology and Public Policy with Specialty in Space Policy from the George Washington University. Attendee of the International Space University Summer Session, Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power Satellites, Why Has SPS R&D Received So Little Funding? http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html)
Space solar power technology...insure that our energy needs are met.

**SPS is a game changer for the first nation to develop it – the first mover gets the advantage**
NSSO, 2007, SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, (National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf)
FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found ...will catalyze development in the other.

=Negative=

==Negative Strategies==

You can ask me to put up more @ surajgotevil@gmail.com

===Wake Forest===

**Round 2 vs. River Hill LS (DSCOVR)**
1NC: Topicality, Politics DA (TAA), ESA CP, Weaponization DA, Spending DA, Case
2NC: ESA CP, Politics DA
1NR: Topicality
2NR: Topicality

**Round 4 vs. Northview DM (BMDs)**
1NC: Topicality, Politics DA (TAA), PWTT CP, Case
2NC: Politics DA (TAA), Case
1NR: Case, Topicality
2NR: Topicality

**Round 5 vs. Pace ES (ORS)**
1NC: Topicality, Politics DA (TAA), PWTT CP, Weaponization DA, Case
2NC: Politics DA (TAA), Weaponization DA
1NR: Case, Topicality
2NR: Topicality

===Chattahoochee===

**Round 1 vs. Northview DM (SSA)**
1NC: Politics DA (TAA), ESA CP, Spending DA, Case
2NC: ESA CP, Politics DA
1NR: Case
2NR: ESA CP, Heg Bad, Case

**Round 3 vs. Tift County (Asteroid Mining)**
1NC: Politics DA (TAA), ESA CP, Case
2NC: ESA CP, Politics DA
1NR: Case
2NR: ESA CP, Politics DA, Case

===Houston County===

**Round 1 vs. Johns Creek (James Webb)**
1NC: T Sub, Politics (China Currency), ESA CP, T, STEM CP, WFIRST Trade-Off DA, Case
Block: Politics, ESA CP, T
2NR: CP, DA

**Round 3 vs. Pace (SPS)**
1NC: Politics (China Currency), T, ESA CP, Heg Bad, Case
Block: CP, Heg Bad, Case, Politics, T
2NR: T

**Round 5 vs. Pace KS (SSA)**
1NC: Politics (Repatriation), ESA CP, Ground CP, T, Case
Block: CPs, Case, Politics
2NR: ESA CP, Politics

===Carrollton===

**Round 1 vs. Dunwoody LL? (EOS)**
1NC: T, USAID CP, ESA CP, Elections DA, Scientific Inquiry DA, Case
Block: ESA, USAID, Elections, Coercion, Case
2NR: ESA, USAID, Elections, Case

**Round 4 vs. Westminster YZ (Asteroid Deflection)**
1NC: O-Spec Bad, T, ESA CP, Visas CP, Elections DA, Scientific Inquiry DA, Case
Block: Case, Elections, ESA
2NR: Case, Elections, ESA

**Round 5 vs. Hooch L? (Nanosats)**
Block: T, PWTT CP, China Relations DA, Elections, Case
2NR: Elections, China Relations, Case

**Elims Round 1 vs. Westminster OH (NextGen)**
Block: Elections, ESA CP, Heg Bad, Case
2NR: CP, DA, Case

===Ohio Valley===

**Round 1 vs. Mountain Brook RS (SPS)**
1NC: T, ESA CP, Elections DA, Heg Bad, Case
Block: Heg Bad, Case, CP, DA
2NR: CP, DA, Heg Bad

**Round 3 vs. Centennial (Race Sats)**
2NR: T/FW

**Round 5 vs. Perry CA (GPS III)**
1NC: T, Elections, Info K, ESA CP, Heg Bad, Case
2NR: K, DA, CP

===Barkley Forum @ Emory===

**Round 2 vs. University UC (Aesthetic Space)**
2NR: T Exploration/Development/Of/Beyond

**Round 3 vs. Greenhill (Space Guard)**
2NR: Info K

**Round 5 vs. Northview CP (Space Guard)**
2NR: Multilat CP, Elections DA, Info K

==Counterplans==

===ESA===

===USAID===

===PWTT===

===STEM===

===Visas===

==Disads==

===SKFTA===

===TAA===

===Space Weaponization===

===Spending===

===WFIRST Trade-Off===

==Topicality==

===Of===

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]