[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
COMMUNITARIANISM AC
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gruen defines animal rights as treating animals as ends in themselves. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“According to the…context, or culture. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Gruen, Lori, "The Moral Status of Animals", //The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2010 Edition)//, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2010/entries/moral-animal/></span>

Accept reasonable aff interps in the round.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1) AR Time skew </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2) Nullify 6 min of the AC</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3) Neg speaks second – can tailor</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">4) Choose fwk to exclude AC – unfair</span>
To recognize means:
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“to perceive as …recognize a fact.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Dictionary.com: </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/justice]]</span>
The resolution should be evaluated in a general sense:
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">a) Predicatability</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">b) Skew ground</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">c) Destroy clash – 2 ships in dark</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">d) Specific disadvantages don’t prove animal rights are bad, only animal rights in that instance are bad </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I value **justice**, defined as</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“the quality of…of a cause.” </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/justice]]</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> obligations cannot be derived from a desire to maximize benefits.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">- can never end aggregation</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Morality stems from the community; three warrants.</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">First, </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">community protects our ability to set our own ends. </span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ripstein</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">explains what it means to set our own ends:  </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“The core idea…used to pursue.” </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Arthur Ripstein (Prof. of Law & Philosophy @ University of Toronto) “Kant on Law and Justice” in “A Companian to Kant’s Ethics” 2007</span><span style="color: #0000cc; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">www.**law**.utoronto.ca/documents/**Ripstein**/**Kant_on_law**.pdf</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">Thus,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;"> we recognize others deserve the ability to set their own ends, shown through mutual restraint in community. </span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">Second, </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">community creates the norms that allow us to function under morality.,</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Conceptions of good come from character, which only society establishes, because individuals are born lacking moral capability. **Gyeke[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]],** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">Kwame Gyeke 2010 “African Ethics” http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/african-ethics/</span>
“African maxims are… changed or reformed.”
This good is established by the norms society has for good behavior. **Gyeke,**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">Kwame Gyeke 2010 “African Ethics” http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/african-ethics/</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“The views of…the other anti-social” </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Third, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">community perpetuates norms through exclusion: this develops a code of morality that individuals must follow.</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Beversluis: </span>**<span style="color: black;">Aquinas College, 89 Beversluis , Aquinas College, 89 [Eric H. April 1989. “On Shunning Undesirable Regimes: Ethics and Economic Sanctions.” Public Affairs Quarterly, April, vol. 3, no. 2]</span>
“But how can…level of morality.”

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, the standard is **consistency with community.** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I advocate that animals are a part of our community, and so have moral status. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ONE: NATURE IS OUR COMMUNITY. WE HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO IT – 3 warrants.</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">First, </span>**<span style="color: #282828; font-size: 12pt;">Members of the ecosystem must engage in mutual restraint, as humans are only a part of a complex world community. **Rudhyar:** </span>D. Rudhyar, //Directives for New Life.// 1971. p. 21-23 
“Ever since the…of molecular aggregations” 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Second,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> nature has its own will through mutualism and its natural processes of interaction. **Bookchin:**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bookchin, Murray. //The Philosophy of Social Ecology.// 1995. P. 85-86</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Mutualism, freedom, and … our uniqueness ecologically.” </span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">nature’s continual attempts to preserve itself belies a sense of identity and choice that shows that it’d like to stay alive.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Third, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">separating humans from animals based on rationality is nonsensical.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Our mind came from nature, and so does our community. **Bookchin:**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bookchin, Murray. //The Philosophy of Social Ecology.// 1995. P. 118-119</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“The great divorce … institutionalized human community.” </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">TWO: ANIMALS HAVE COMMUNITIES WITH THEIR OWN SENSE OF MORALITY AND JUSTICE – 2 warrants. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">First,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> animals have the rationality to function in a social context in a system of mutual benefit through constraining their own self-interest. **Fort summarizes Bekoff, both in ’09:** </span>
<span style="color: #282828; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fort, Tom. “//Wild Justice// by Marc Bekoff and Jessica Pierce and //Made for Each Other// by Meg Daley Olmert: Review”. //The Telegraph.// 24 May 2009. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/books/bookreviews/5361030/Wild-Justice-by-Marc-Bekoff-and-Jessica-Pierce-and-Made-for-Eachother-by-Meg-Daley-Olmert-review.html</span>
<span style="color: #282828; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[Bekoff, Marc and Pierce, Jessica. //Wild Justice.// University of Chicago Press. 2009. Note: Bekoff is an ecologist, Pierce is a philosopher.] </span>
<span style="color: #282828; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“It hinges on…get too rough” </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Second,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> animals engage in shunning to enforce social norms. **<span style="color: #282828;">Gray:</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #282828; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gray, Richard. “Animals can tell right from wrong”. //The Telegraph.// 23 May 2009. </span>
<span style="color: #282828; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">http://www.telegraph.co.uk/earth/wildlife/5373379/Animals-can-tell-right-from-wrong.html</span>
<span style="color: #282828; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“In other members…members as punishment.” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus I affirm. </span>

----

==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]