[[toc]]
=Can I, Can I Get My Applesauce?= 
=Contact Info:= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">For cites or full text cards e-mail Max: maxwell.d.anderson[AT]gmail[DOT]com</span>



=Affirmative= 

==Districts 1AC The Desert== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I am tired of fighting. Our chiefs are killed. </span>**<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www2.gsu.edu/~eslmlm/chiefjoseph.html#Looking|Looking Glass]]</span></span>**<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">is dead. </span>**<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www2.gsu.edu/~eslmlm/chiefjoseph.html#Toolhusote|Toohulhulsote]]</span></span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">is dead. The old men are all dead. It is the young men who say yes or no.</span>**<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www2.gsu.edu/~eslmlm/chiefjoseph.html#He who led the young|He who led the young]]</span></span>**<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">men is dead.</span>**<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> It is cold and we have no blankets. The little children are freezing to death. My people, some of them, have run away to the hills and have no blankets, no food. No one knows where they are--perhaps freezing to death. I want to have time to look for my children and see how many I can find. Maybe I shall find them among the dead. Hear me, my chiefs. I am tired. My heart is sick and sad. From where the sun now stands, I will fight no more forever.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">- </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Thunder Rolling Down the Mountain</span>**




**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We begin with a place seemingly unrelated to the vacuum of space, yet oddly similar in its vast emptiness. The distinctly barren terrain of the desert places a unique ontological thought in the discussion of space policy. </span>**
**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Beck,</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">John, 19</span>**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">63</span>**//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">“Without Form and Void: The American Desert as Trope and Terrain”</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Nepantla: Views from South - Volume 2, Issue 1, 2001, pp. 63-83</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Before the mid-nineteenth century, the deserts betweenTexas and California were considered of value mainly because they connected the East and West Coasts. The American desert, as Patricia Limerick (1985,166) notes, “found its initial significance as a place to cross.” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The desert</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, then</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, is</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">from the beginning conceived by Americans as</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> a redundant space that receives its significance in negative terms: it is the space between two places, a gap or pause between the nation’s inhabited places</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">. Limerick observes that while the overland trail was seen as an adventure and a challenge for many people, “the desert went too far. In desert travel, hardship went past adventure and into ordeal” (167). The hardship of the desert led many travelers to feel betrayed by its intractable reality: “Routes that looked clear and direct on maps turned out to be ordeals; so-called rivers were small, bitter, and given to sudden disappearances. The desert passage was an interlude of shaken confidence; the visual distortion of mirages was only one of the ways in which nature, in the desert, seemed to cheat.” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">For a nation concerned with</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">agricultural </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">expansion as the primary civilizing force, hitting arid lands meant that “the project of mastering the continent seemed to have reached a non-negotiable limit. By all the conventional standards </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">of value and habitability,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> the desert was an irrational environment, a betrayal of abundance fulfilled everywhere in North America.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We stand in the interregnum, or more specifically the desert, of the resolution and peer over the edge of the topical abyss. It is in the status-quo development of this abyss that we find metaphysics. Current modes of thought view space, and the desert, in one of two roles: either productive and bountiful or unproductive and useless. Spanos defines Metaphysics as</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">:</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Spanos 2K</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(William V., Prof @ Univ. of Binghamton, Heideggerian scholar & literary critic, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg 8-11 [AL])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Metaphysics is thus </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">a circular mode of inquiry that, in beginning from the //end,// has as its end</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> the (finally futile) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">total reification and determination of the essential anxiety-activating indeterminacy of the nothing,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> of temporality, of the differences that temporality disseminates: of a phantasmic alterity, as it were. To use the rhetoric in Heidegger's discourse that points to the essential imperialism of metaphysical ontology, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">it is an end-oriented mode of inquiry intended to</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">level </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">or //at-home// or </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">domesticate or pacify — that is, to "civilize" — the "threatening" not-at-home </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(die Unheimliche) </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">that being as such "is" for //Dasein.// The function of metaphysical thinking is not simply to annul the anxiety — the dislocating uncanniness (//die Unheimlichkeit)// — precipitated by being-in-the-not-at-home. By an easy extension inhering in Heidegger's ironic invocation of the metaphor of "grasping" — one of the essential and determining white metaphors of the truth discourse of the Occident, to which I will return when I take up the spatial metaphorics informing the word "metaphysics" — it can be said that the function of this "after" in the logical economy of metaphysics is also to transform the indeterminate realm of the uncanny to a condition that enables its //management.// </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The function of metaphysical thinking</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, in short, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">is "ideological." It serves to reduce the ineffable //be-ing// of being to</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">what Heidegger will later call </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">exploitable "standing reserve</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">" //(Bestand)// and Foucault, "docile and useful body." It is not, however, simply the Other of metaphysics — the nothing, the temporal, the accidental, the contradictory, the differential, or, to evoke the connotation of the ontological Other I want to underscore, the spectral — that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">metaphysical objectification</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">and naming </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">would domesticate and pacify</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">. As the metaphorics released by the solicitation of the sedimented and innocuous (indeed, benign) names referring to the domestication (at-homing) of being suggest, it is also — and in a determined way — </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the "unknown," the "primitive," the "wild" or "savage,"</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> the an-archic, the dis-orderly, in their ecological and human (subjective, sexual, racial, ethnic, and sociopolitical) manifestations.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">North America was seen an empty land, despite its 80 million inhabitants. The Manifest destiny rhetoric used by the United States federal government established a violent ontology that saw the culture of the Native Americans as dangerous to the productive ideals that they advocated and omitted this genocide as a pillar of our nationhood.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Martinez, 96 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Elizabeth, Chicana writer, activist and teacher, December, Reinventing "America",</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.zmag.org/zmag/articles/dec96martinez.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">).</span>

<span style="font-size: 120%;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Every society has an origin narrative </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">which explains that society to itself and the world with a set of mythologized stories and symbols. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">The </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">origin</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">myth</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, as scholar-activist Roxanne Dunbar Ortiz has termed it, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">defines how a society understands</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> its place in </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">the world and its history</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">. The myth provides the basis for a nation's self-defined identity.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Ours begins with Columbus "discovering"</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> a hemisphere where some </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">80 million people</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> already lived (but didn't really count since they were just buffalo-chasing "savages" with no grasp of real estate values and therefore doomed to perish). It </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">continues with</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> the brave </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Pilgrims, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">a revolution by independence-loving colonists against a decadent English aristocrat,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> and the birth of </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">an energetic </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">young republic that promised democracy and equality</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (that is, to white malelandowners). In the 1840s </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">the new nation expanded </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">its size</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> by </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">almost</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> one third</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, thanks to a victory over that backward land of little brown people called Mexico. Such has been the basic account of how the nation called the United States of America came into being as presently configured. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">The </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">myth's </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">omissions are grotesque. It ignores </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">three major pillars of our nationhood:</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">genocide, enslavement, and imperialist expansion</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (such nasty words, who wants to hear them?--but that's the problem). </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">The</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> massive </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">extermination of indigenous peoples provided our land base; </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">the transport and</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> enslavement of African labor made </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">our </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">economic growth possible; and the seizure of half of Mexico by war,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">or threat of renewed war, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">extended </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">this nation's </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">boundaries</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">to the Pacific and the Rio Grande. Such are the foundation stones of the U.S. along with an economic system that made this country the first in world history to be born capitalist. Those three pillars were, of course, supplemented by great numbers of dirt-cheap workers from Mexico, China, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, etc. all kept in their place by varieties of White Supremacy. They stand along with millions of less-than-Supreme white workers and share-croppers. Any</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">attempt to modify the </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">present origin </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">myth provokes </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">angry </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">efforts to repel </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">such</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> sacrilege. In the case of Native Americans, scholars </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">will</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">insist </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">that </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">they died from disease, or wars among themselves, or "not so many really did die." At worst it was a "tragedy," but never deliberate genocide, never a pillar of our nationhood. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">As for slavery, it was an embarrassment, of course, but do remember that Africa also had slavery and anyway enlightened white folk finally did end the practice here. In the case of Mexico, reputable U.S. scholars still insist on blaming that country for the 1846-48 war, although even former U.S. President Ulysses Grant wrote in his memoirs that "We were sent to provoke a fight [by moving troops into a disputed border area] but it was essential that Mexico should commence it [by fighting back]." President James Polk's 1846 diary openly records his purpose in declaring war as "acquiring California, New Mexico, and perhaps other Mexican lands." </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">To justify</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> what could be called </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">a territorial drive-by, the Mexican people were declared inferior; the U.S. had a "Manifest Destiny" to bring them progress and democracy.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Even </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">when </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">revisionist</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">voices </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">have</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> exposed </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">particular</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> evils of Indian policy, slavery, or the war on Mexico, those evils remained </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">little more than unpleasant </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">footnotes; </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">the core of the dominant myth stands intact. PBS's recent 8-part documentary series entitled "The West" is a case in point. It devotes more than the usual attention to the devastation of Native America, but still centers on Anglos. Little attention is given to why their domination evolved as it did and so the West remains the physically gorgeous backdrop for an ugly, unaltered origin myth. In fact, our myth is strengthened by "The West" series. For </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">White Supremacy needs the </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">brave but ultimately doomed</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Indians to silhouette its own superiority.</span></span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Space, so similar to the desert, has become the nothing of metaphysics. It is viewed through the trope of the empty wasteland, the vast unproductive nothingness. This nothing is difference, the in-between, the inhabited space of the bar that is excluded from policy discourse.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **The response that status-quo space policy has to the nothing is informed by one of two metaphysical paths: either accommodate the nothing or banish it. Metaphysical thought assumes that this nothing must be converted to something; the wild, wasteful desert must be cultivated into a productive field, and the vast nothingness of space must be transformed into a site of productive existence.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Spanos 2K</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(William V., English and Comparative Literature Prof @ Binghamton, Heideggerian scholar, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg. 11-12 |MB|)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">However that "otherly" surface is represented, whether as shadow (as in Plato) or as signature (as in St. Augustine and the Church Fathers) or as negation (as in Hegel) or as fragment (as in modern empirical science), </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the metaphysical mode of inquiry //assumes// that the difference the inquirer encounters is not an irresolvable contradiction or contingency, but a problem that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">can and </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">must be solved in the name of the truth. It assumes the Other to be a //mere appearance:// </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">a recalcitrant agency of concealment and instability </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">that must yield what it conceals to the stabilizing truth of Identity</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, of the One, of the End, of Presence. In short, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">metaphysical inquiry represents that which is Other than its truth not simply as a negative term</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(specter or spirit), </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">but,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">as such, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">as that which corroborates its Identity</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Spirit) and endows its Truth with power. Thus perceiving //meta-ta-physika// produces and validates the essential logic of the ontotheological tradition. This is, of course, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the hierarchized binary logic that enables the first, "major" term</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">— the term representing a self-present and plenary object — </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">to demonize the second, "minor"</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> or "subaltern," </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">term</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">: the term representing an entity that is not present to itself. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This binary logic</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, in other words, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">empowers the privileged term to represent the Other as nonbeing</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(spectral</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">), as some kind of arbitrary threat to Being</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">— the benign total order to which the first term is committed — </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">and thus to subdue and appropriate this Other to the latter's essential truth.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The United States has answered the challenge of the nothing by turning space into a new arena for the cycle of massacre and domination—a place to renew the American identity of exceptionalism and establish the Unites States as the preeminent sovereign over an endless territory.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Raymond </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Duvall</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, Prof. U. Minnesota </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">&</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Jonathan </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Havercroft</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> U. Victoria, “Taking Sovereignty Out of This World: Space Weaponization and the Production of Late-Modern Political Subjects”, Prepared for presentation at the annual meetings of the International Studies Association, </span><span class="CiteChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">20</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">06</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, p. http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p98680_index.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">I<span style="font-size: 110%;">n Volume One of Capital, Marx chided classical political economists for their inability to explain how workers became separated from the means of production. Whereas political economists such as Adam Smith argued that a previous accumulation of capital was necessary for a division of labor, Marx argued that this doctrine was an absurd doctrine. Division of labor existed in pre-capitalist societies where workers were not alienated from their labor. Instead, Marx argued that the actual historical process of primitive accumulation of capital was carried out through brute force. </span></span><span style="font-size: 110%;"><span class="ReadingTextChar">The discovery of gold and silver in America, the extirpation, enslavement and entombment in mines of the indigenous population of that continent, the beginnings of the conquest and plunder of India, and the conversion of Africa into a preserve for the commercial hunting of blackskins, are all things which characterize the dawn of the era of capitalist production.</span> These idyllic proceedings are the chief moments of primitive accumulation (Marx, 1977: 915). <span class="ReadingTextChar">The doctrine of space control is part</span>and parcel <span class="ReadingTextChar">of an ongoing processof</span>suchprimitive<span class="ReadingTextChar"> accumulation.</span>One of the purposes of the 1967 Outer Space Treaty was to keep outer space a commons where all states, regardless of technical ability or economic or military power, could participate in the potential benefits space has to offer. In the years since this treaty was signed, the primary economic use of space has been for commercial communications satellites. This industry has expanded dramatically in the last two decades. Total revenues for commercial space-related industries in 1980 were 2.1 billion dollars; by 2003 this figure had expanded to $91 billion and it was expected to increase at least as rapidly into the foreseeable future (SpaceSecurity.org, 2005). On the economic front,<span class="ReadingTextChar">space control is about determining who has access to this new economy. Positions in orbit</span>for satellites <span class="ReadingTextChar">are a new form of “real estate,” and by controlling access to</span>outer<span class="ReadingTextChar"> space the U.S. would be</span>forcibly<span class="ReadingTextChar"> appropriating the orbits around Earth, </span>thereby<span class="ReadingTextChar"> placing the U.S. in a position to determine which government</span>s and corporations <span class="ReadingTextChar">could use space</span>. In effect, <span class="ReadingTextChar">orbital slots around earth would be turned into private property.</span> This process of primitive accumulation is of importance to our concerns in two ways. First, <span class="ReadingTextChar">the doctrine of space control represents the extension of U.S. sovereignty into outer space.</span>In addition to being a clear violation of international law, <span class="ReadingTextChar">it reinforces</span> the constitutive effect identified in the previous section on missile defense, namely to reinscribe <span class="ReadingTextChar">the </span>“hard shell”<span class="ReadingTextChar"> borders of the U.S., which </span>are<span class="ReadingTextChar"> now</span> extended to <span class="ReadingTextChar">include the “territory” of outer space. This simultaneously constitutes the exclusive sovereignty of the U.S., while displacing the sovereignty of other states</span>. Second, <span class="ReadingTextChar">space control bears significantly on the production of political subjectivities. </span>The original Star Trek series would begin with the voice of Captain Kirk describing space as the “final frontier”. While presenting the exploration of space as a largely peaceful enterprise, the TV show was also drawing upon its viewers’ “memories” of the “western frontier” of 19th century U.S. expansion. At least since the writings of Frederick Turner, there has been the notion that the frontier represents the well-spring of U.S. ingenuity, freedom, and creativity. According to Turner, <span class="ReadingTextChar">because as they expanded westward settlers in the U.S. had to continually adapt to a new environment, they became increasingly “American”. The theme of the frontier as essential for American identity has had a significant discursive role in U.S. imperialist expansion</span>(Turner, 1962). Although Turner concluded that the American frontier had closed by the late 1890s,<span class="ReadingTextChar"> many</span>Americans, most notably Theodore Roosevelt, <span class="ReadingTextChar">concluded</span>at just that time<span class="ReadingTextChar"> that </span>in order to maintain the exceptional American identity new frontiers had to be opened<span class="ReadingTextChar"> overseas. </span>The notion of frontiers, then,has been integral to the U.S. imperialist project<span class="ReadingTextChar"> since its outset. </span>The doctrine of space control, seen in this light, is simply an extension of the imperial logic.<span class="ReadingTextChar"> By expanding into and taking control of the “final frontier” </span>the U.S. is continuing to renew an exceptional—an exclusive—<span class="ReadingTextChar">i</span>dentity by adapting itself to the harsh realities of a new environment<span class="ReadingTextChar">. </span>So, <span class="ReadingTextChar">the doctrine of space control can be read as extending U.S. sovereignty into orbit.</span> While a clear violation of international law, this de facto expansion of U.S. sovereignty will have two effects. First, it enables a process of primitive accumulation, whereby orbital spaces around earth are removed from the commons initially established by the Outer Space Treaty, and places them under the control of the U.S. for use and perhaps even ownership by businesses sympathetic to U.S. interests. The U.S. becomes even more than it is now the state for global capitalism, the global capitalist state. Second, <span class="ReadingTextChar">this doctrine</span>of space control<span class="ReadingTextChar"> is part of the ongoing re-production of American subjects as “Americans”. Embedded within space control is the notion that space is a new frontier</span>. Following the Turner thesis and Roosevelt’s doctrine of imperialist expansion,<span class="ReadingTextChar">there has long been a drive for Americans to seek out new frontiers as a way of renewing the American identity and promoting American values of individuality, innovation, and exceptionalism.</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Also, the history of Imperialism and development are intertwined and both extend through multiple facets of life. Metaphorically, linguistically, and practically the two phenomena are very similar.</span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Spanos 2K</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(William V., English and Comparative Literature Prof @ Binghamton, Heideggerian scholar, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg. 94-99 |MB|)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This imperial relay —</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">which in Conrad's novels (as well as in the fiction of other major modern British novelists such as Rudyard Kipling, Robert Louis Stevenson, H. Rider Haggard, Evelyn Waugh, Joyce Gary, and even E. M. Forster) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">extends from the representation of being through language and culture to sociopolitical relations in terms of </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the naturalized tropes of the center and periphery</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, light and dark, planted and unplanted earth</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">— pervades the discursive practices of the Rome of the Republic and of the empire. This is suggested by the passage from Tacitus's //Agricola// quoted above. But it is put most succinctly, perhaps, by Strabo (63 B.c.-ca. A.D. 18) in his //Geography.// Though Greek, he was, like Polybius, Diodorus Siculus, and other prominent Greek geographers and historians in the period of Roman hegemony, clearly a colonized Greek who wrote precisely at the moment that precipitated the empire. About the Lusitanian mountain people at the farthest Western reaches of Iberia, for example, Strabo writes:</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">The quality of intractability and wildness in these people has not resulted solely from their engaging in warfare, but also from their remoteness; for the trip to their country, whether by sea or by land, is long, and since they are difficult to communicate with, they have lost the instinct of sociability and humanity. They have this feeling of intractability and wildness to a less extent now, however, because of the peace and of the sojourns of the Romans among them. But wherever such sojourns are rarer the people are harder to deal with and more brutish; and if some are so disagreeable merely as the result of the remoteness of their regions, it is likely that those who live in the mountains are still more outlandish.57</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rome, as the exemplary nostalgic meditations on its empire of Sir Philip Sidney, Edward Gibbon, Henry James, Henry Adams, Sainte- Beuve, Theodor Haecker, and T. S. Eliot among many other modern "European" intellectuals make clear, was not just another moment in European history that time has obliterated, its "brute force," as Said, quoting Conrad, puts it, scarcely more than "an accident arising from the weakness of others." It was, as Heidegger has persuasively suggested, the founding moment of European history, that is, of its self-representation. Rome, in other words, is not, as both Conrad and Said, his critic, imply, incommensurably opposed to modern British (or European, including American) civilization. It is the "organic" source and end — the //(anthropo)logos// — of the Occident's representation of being/truth and of its essential (imperial) identity. In other words, the modern Occident's use of "brute force" to subdue and incorporate the people of the periphery to the Metropolis is, as it was to the Romans, //intrinsic// to its "humane" logic, to its "unselfish belief in the idea [at the back of its imperial project]." </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Overt force</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, according to this "Roman" logic, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">is always held in reserve</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">It is only used</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, as Gramsci and Althusser observed about the internal operations of truth and power in capitalist modernity, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">when the about-to-be-colonized or the colonized Others refuse their spontaneous consent to the (hegemonic) truth discourse of the colonizer</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">: to the alleged //Pax Romana,// as it were.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">Said summarizes his critical commentary on Conrad's distinction between Roman (and Belgian) and British imperialism in the following resonant way:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">Conrad encapsulates two quite different but intimately related aspects of imperialism: the idea that is based on the power to take over territory, an idea utterly clear in its force and unmistakable consequences; and the practice that essentially disguises or obscures this by developing a justificatory regime of selfaggrandizing, self-originating authority interposed between the victim of imperialism and its perpetrator. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">We would completely miss the tremendous power of this argument if we were merely to lift it out of //Heart of Darkness,// like a message out of a bottle. Conrad's argument is inscribed right in the very form of narrative as he inherited it and as he practiced it. Without empire, I would go so far as saying, there is no European novel as we know it, and indeed if we study the impulses giving rise to it, we shall see the far from accidental convergence between the patterns of narrative authority constitutive of the novel on the one hand, and, on the other, a complex ideological configuration underlying the tendency to imperialism. //(CI,// 69-70)58</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">Said's recognition of the intimate relatedness of empire and cultural production (the "European novel"), of an imperialism "based on the power to take over territory" //(Niederwerfen,// overthrowing, in Heidegger's term) and an imperialism that interposes "a justificatory regime" of representation between "the victim of imperialism and its perpetrator" //(hintergehenden Umgehens,// deceptive outflanking), is what is most valuable about his genealogical project in its critical phase. But it is partial. It leaves unsaid the (onto)logic that explains the intimate relatedness of these "two quite different" modes of imperialism: the //form,// as it were, of the form of cultural narrative that is essentially complicitous with empire. In so doing, it occludes, as well, the deep, polyvalent ideological structure that identifies the very idea of Europe with imperialism. Without empire, I would add to Said's powerful parabolic conclusion, there is not simply "no European novel as we know it"; there is no "Europe."</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The practice of modern imperialism is not limited </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">to the </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">conquest</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> of extraterritorial peoples and their space, nor to the sites of culture as such and geopolitics, as the title of Said's book, if not its rhetoric, implies. The imperial //actio// proper, rather, is, as the unthought anticolonialist tropics of a large and varied number of contemporary disciplinary discourses suggest, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">a meta-physically </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">or panoptically </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">enabled act of circumscription, cultivation, and colonization</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, that, however unevenly in any historically specific occasion since the Roman Empire, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">has traversed the indissoluble lateral continuum of being,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">from the language of being as such, through the "facts" and discourses of ecos, subject, gender, and culture, to national and international economico-sociopolitics. This is why, despite the now doctrinaire implication by the Right and the Left of Heidegger's thought with Nazi practice virtually accomplished by the "anti-antihumanists" enabled by Victor Farias's //Heidegger et le nazisme,// it is necessary to retrieve his momentous but neglected historical genealogy of modern Occidental civilization and its representation of the ideal of peace.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">In thus identifying the history of Europe, especially in its post-Enlightenment phase, as essentially the history of //homo romanus,// I by no means want to suggest that the kind of historically specific distinction Said is making is unnecessary. It is to say, rather, that it is equally important — especially in the present historical conjuncture, when the American imperial project is being represented as the "end of [universal] history" — to thematize the representation of being that has always constituted the condition of possibility for these differential imperialisms.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We see this correlation between theory and practice more clearly in juxtaposing the relay between the figure of the centered circle, culture, and colonization with Conrad's assertion in //Heart of Darkness// that the ancient Romans "were no colonists.... They were conquerors, and for that you want only brute force.... They grabbed what they could get for the sake of what was to be got."59 It is no accident of history, I submit, that</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> the words "culture," "cultivate," "acculturation," </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">and soon — the privileged Latinate names that have expressed the ideal end of education for modern humanists from Friedrich Schiller to E. D. Hirsch — </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">are cognates of //colonize// (from the Latin //colonus,// "tiller," "cultivator," "planter," "settler":</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the French settlers in Algeria were called //colons]// and //colere// ("cultivate," "plant": colonies, for example, were called "plantations" by the English settlers in the New World). Nor is it an accident that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the temporal process idealized by both humanist education and the Western colonizing project is informed by a </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">phallic/genetic </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">metaphorics </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">that is</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">indissolubly affiliated with the </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">metaphysically enabled </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">imperial metaphorics of vision</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(light/darkness) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">and of the circle</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(center/periphery). I am referring to </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">trope that represents the temporal process as the //maturation// of the potential of a planted seed</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">: "improvement" of the "unimproved," "development" of the "un-" or "under-developed." </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Nor finally is it a historical accident that the receiving or passive object and end — the //agros// (field), as in "agriculture" — of this (phallic) action of the //colon oragricola// (farmer) derives from the Greek //agrios// (wild, monstrous, savage), which the Romans, in keeping with their gendered reification of being and their consequent aggressive relationship to the peripheral Other, seem to have substituted for the more original and originative Greek words for these: //georgia (gea+ourgos:// earth-working) and //georgos// (one who works the earth).60</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">"Culture," "cultivate," "colony," "colonization": all these enabling names or, in Raymond Williams's phrase, "key words" of Western cultural discourse have their origin not in ancient Greek words referring to such agents and acts of domination, but in the historically epochal Roman appropriation of the Greek word //kyklos// (cycle) or //kirkos// (ring, circle), the spatial image symbolizing "Beauty" and "Perfection." This reductive codification of the "errancy" of originative Greek thinking and the dialogical //paedeia// to which it gave rise //(Auseinandersetzung,// as Heidegger more accurately puts it in his genealogy of "Europe") constitutes the origins of humanism and its cultural and political institutions. It was this circumscription, cultivation, and colonization of the truth understood by the Greeks as always already //a-letheia// that produced //homo humanus// as //homo romanus// and the Roman educational project devoted to //eruditio et institutio in bonas artes// (the //studia bumanitatis,// the //litterae humaniores);// legitimated the Roman will to power over the "barbarians" or //agrioi'^// and, in some fundamental sense, enabled the idea of the Roman //imperium sine fini// and its //pax.// As the prominence of the (phallic) plow, the circle, and the //Orbis Terrarum// in his discourse suggests, it is this foundational and epochal relay to which Plutarch, the ideologically ambivalent Greek intellectual, is referring in the following passage describing the official representation of the sacred origin of Rome, the imperial Metropolis of the Roman Empire, from his "Life of Romulus":</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">Romulus, having buried his brother Remus, together with his two foster-fathers on the Mount Remona, set to building his city; and sent for men of Tuscany, who directed him by sacred usages and written rules in all ceremonies to be observed, as in a religious rite. First they dug a round trench about that which is now the Comitium or Court of Assembly, and into it solemnly threw firstfruits of all things either good by custom or necessary by nature; lastly, every man taking a small piece of earth of the country from whence he came, they all threw them promiscuously together. This trench they called, as they do the heavens, //Mundus:// making which their centre, they described the city in a circle round it. Then the founder fitted to a plough a brazen ploughshare, and, yoking together a bull and a cow, drove himself a deep line of furrow round the bounds; while the business of those that followed after was to see that whatever earth was thrown up should be turned all inward toward the city; and not to let any clod lie outside. With this line they described the wall, and called it, by a contraction, Pomoerium, that is, //postmurum,// after or beside the wall; and where they designed to make a gate, there they took out the share, carried the plough over, and left a space, for which reason they consider the whole wall as holy, except where the gates are, for had they adjudged them also sacred, they could not, without offense to religion, have given free ingress and egress for the necessaries of human life, some of which in themselves are unclean.61</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">That Plutarch's verbal description of the mythical founding of Rome in terms of the polyvalent symbolism of the spatializing eye, the incorporating center and periphery, and the cultivating plowshare is not simply anecdotal but foundational is borne witness to by its pictorial repetition in the ubiquitous Roman coins that memorialize this double "agri-cultural" founding event.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The imperial theory and practice enabled by the Romans' ontological</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">/cultural </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">reduction of</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the originative </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">agonistic thinking</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">of the Greeks //(a-letheia]// </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">to the discourse of "correctness</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">" (veritas] </span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">did not expire </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">with the "fall of Rome.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">" As the ubiquitous and massively enabling, but relatively unnoticed, "Roman reference" — especially its embodiment in Virgil's story of Aeneas's founding of Rome — in the cultural discourse of the Occident at large suggests, this polyvalent Roman logic and its inscribed system of metaphors have informed the great imperial projects of the historical Occident at large, including modern America, as a deep structure ever since Roman antiquity.62 More specifically, the Roman //translatio imperil et studii// provided the structural model — at first overtly, but increasingly in a naturalized way — for the various historical manifestations of the idea of Europe, both religious and secular: the Holy Roman Empire (from Charlemagne in the ninth century to Napoleon and after); the imperial projects of Portugal, Spain, England, France, and the Netherlands in the age of exploration; and those of France and Great Britain in the nineteenth century and even of Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany in the twentieth.63 And, more discreetly and indirectly, but no less fundamentally, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">this Roman logic,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> as a certain reading of Sacvan Bercovitch's ground-breaking </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">American Jeremiad </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">will suggest, has </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">also</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> informed the theory and practice of American colonialism from the Puritans' "errand in the wilderness"</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(which, like Aeneas's band, was undertaken from the perspective of a "saving remnant"), </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">through the founding of the Republic and its westward expansionism into a "virgin land" in the name of Manifest Destiny, to the invasion of Vietnam in the name of "the New Frontier</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">," and (after the revision of its history) to the announcement of the end of history and the New World Order in the aftermath of the Cold War. However sublimated, it is this destinarian Roman logic, announced in Virgil's //Aeneid// against a certain Homeric errancy, that continues to inform the American imperialist projectthat goes by the name of the //Pax Americana// and is Edward Said's immediate concern.64</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">To compliment Spanos, we provide Robert Marzec’s research about the history of enclosure that helps to reveal the complicitous nature of ontology and development with imperialism. The control of empty space is part of a master narrative of imperial closure that places the land into a series of binary oppositions. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Marzec</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, Robert. </span><span class="cite0" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">20</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">02</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> “Enclosures, Colonization, and the Robinson Crusoe Syndrome:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;"> A Genealogy of Land in a Global Context”, boundary 2 29.2 (2002) 129-156.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">But to those subscribing to the enclosure movement, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the land appears as an adversary, as a volatile entity that needs to be subordinated</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> by the West. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This characterization has come to rule imperial consciousness</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> and novelistic re-presentation in the modern era. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The imperial encounter with land</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">thus </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">emerges as a syndrome,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> and </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">land itself comes to be represented</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">in the sociosymbolic order of empire </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">as a hostile being needing to be enclosed, ‘‘cured,’’ and ‘‘cultivated.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">’’ As Said argues, there is an irreducible relation between narrative representation and the imperial development of social space. What has been tellingly overlooked, however, even by those postcolonialists heavily influenced by Said’s work, is what I would argue to be a crucial moment in his analysis of imperialism and social space: that is, the allusion in Culture and Imperialism to the need to think the influence of parliamentary acts of enclosure.19 Given the powerful role England has played in the development of a colonial (and now global) world order, it is all the more surprising that postcolonial theorists across the board consider as negligible the generalized fear of the land surfacing in texts from the late seventeenth century to the present. What has been astoundingly overlooked, in other words, is the onerous presence, at the heart of the planet’s strongest colonial order, of a significant ontological dread. When one considers the great effort it requires to overlook the immense volume of these corresponding depictions of the land, one begins to see that the refusal to comment on their presence indicates the extent to which an ideologically informed awareness still informs and prepares the way for land relations in the current historical occasion.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">2. Enclosures and Inhabitancy</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Enclosure involves the meticulous measurement of a piece of land, followed by the surrounding of that land with barriers designed to close off the free passage of people and animals: Large, ‘‘open’’ fields formerly devoid of physical territorial boundaries are brought into a system in which land is held ‘‘in severalty’’ (by individuals) through the erection of stone walls, fences, ditches, and hedges that separate one person’s land from one’s neighbors’.21 Turned into private property, land becomes subject to a new discursive system of registration: Copies of enclosure acts (many of which include detailed maps) are disseminated to the enclosure commissioners, the public records office, various county record offices, and parish registries. Imbricated in a sheet of language, land is pulled into a discursive state archive that functions simultaneously as a system of supervision. One sign of this discursive development is the growing importance being given to geographical metaphors around the time of the great waves of parliamentary acts of enclosure in the eighteenth century: the Linnaean ‘‘classificatory table,’’ the foreign ‘‘territory,’’ the enclosed ‘‘field,’’ the designed ‘‘landscape.’’ These terms reveal the extent to which the discourse of enclosure saturates a developing geographical awareness: scientifically, politically, aesthetically, and mentally. Michel Foucault discusses how terms such as these reflect a new ‘‘administration of knowledge,’’ disseminating effects of power along spatial lines.22 Yet even in the work of Foucault, we see no conscious awareness of how this new administration relates to the growing discourse of landscape mastery. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Territory, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">for instance,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">names </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">a juridicopolitical dispersion of power: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">a mapped area controlled by a lord, a military commander, an imperial surveyor, a governor, or a nation</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. Field denotes an economico-juridical dispersion: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the landlord who encloses a space of land, turning it into his ‘‘field’’ in order to expand his sovereignty and his income</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(the stock of grain or sheep). Landscape indicates a politico-aesthetic dispersion: the comportment of land to an artist’s image of organic beauty. It is during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries that an entire constellation of terms such as these become generalized. They reveal the development of a master narrative of </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">enclosure</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> that is both symbolic and corporeal—a terminology that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">begins to determine in advance the possibilities for thinking spatial relations. This narrative comes to set the terms of interpretation, to govern the ‘‘truth’’ of the land, and to administer that truth</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. Land comes to ‘‘hold within’’ its essence a hidden element that, if not vigilantly contained by this discursive administration, would lead to the national subject’s monstrous transmutation into the foreign Other.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">Once parliamentary acts of enclosure had become an accepted way of life, the commons came to be seen by state officials and the public alike as first useless, then dangerous: They began to signify a lack within the nation’s topography. Annexed to the periphery, away from the center of ‘‘proper’’ culture, the commons, and the people living on them (gypsies, vagabonds, migrant laborers, displaced farmers), were given an inferior status paralleling the ‘‘uncivilized’’ and ‘‘wild’’ indigenous inhabitants of the Americas, Africa, India, and the East Indies. The connection of unenclosed land in England to the ‘‘savage’’ land of the colonies is not merely metaphorical. During the era of parliamentary enclosures—when a state-wide apparatus evolved capable of fully realizing in a material fashion the imperial will to power over the land—masses of laborers in the imperial polis came to be affiliated with peripheral natives: ‘‘Like the ‘wild men’ of the New World, the ‘dangerous classes’ of the Old World define the limitations of the general notion of ‘humanity’ which informed . . . European ...expansion.’’23 From the seventeenth to the nineteenth century, parallels were drawn between an ‘‘immoral’’ British underclass, Irish peasants, and ‘‘primitive’’ Africans. 24 In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, these denigrating metaphors began to appear globally, as in the case of the monopolization of land in Puerto Rico by major U.S. corporations. As rural England had, Puerto Rico underwent the conversion of a subsistence agricultural economy to a wage labor system. Kelvin Santiago-Valles quotes the Enlightenment rhetoric of the late-nineteenth-century colonialist Robert T. Hill: ‘‘For Hill, these anthropomorphic ‘impoverished soils and deforested mountains of Porto Rico [sic]’ literally ‘cri[ed] aloud for agricultural experiments to apply the magic wand of chemistry, drainage, and irrigation,’ so that they could be ‘rescue[d] . . . from the waste and ruin of four centuries,’ thereby ‘rehabilitat[ing] the island into an agricultural and scenic paradise.’ ’’25 Similar colonial-capitalist enclosures of land occurred in Jamaica, Barbados, and throughout a number of African territories.26</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">As more land was enclosed, more men were legally considered to be ‘‘masterless,’’ because they could not prove they were tied to a specific owner’s land. Between 1553 and 1701, in Sussex, Norfolk, Devon, Hertfordshire, Warwickshire, and elsewhere, ‘‘houses of correction’’ were ‘‘built for the sole purpose of solving the problem of vagrant, masterless men.’’27 Increasing numbers of people came to be arrested over the issue of timehonored ‘‘use-rights.’’ These use-rights were a legal part of customary social relations and referred to freedom of access to the land for purposes of pasturing livestock and maintaining one’s daily existence.28 The discourse of enclosure gradually annulled these use-rights. It led to the eviction of farm workers living in cottages and the annexing of small farm owners to larger farms as laborers. The agricultural laborer became a subject in a landlord’s empire and the earth he tilled, a wildness to be properly cultivated.29 In defense, these landless, ‘‘trespassing’’ laborers referred to themselves as ‘‘inhabitants’’ as a way of laying claim to their centuries-old rights to the land. The term inhabitant signaled justified cause for being present on an enclosed area of land formerly open. In 1603, however, the legal proceeding known as ‘‘Gateward’s Case’’ challenged the notion of inhabitancy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">Gateward’s Case was a dispute between Stephen Gateward and an enclosing landlord named Robert Smith. Gateward had been ‘‘championing the cause of poorer villagers in the vicinity of Stixwould, Lincolnshire,’’ when he was brought before the court for vagrancy. Supporting the custom of use-rights, Gateward argued that he had a legal right to cross the newly enclosed property on the basis of being an ‘‘inhabitant of the land from time immemorial’’—the typical defense strategy.30 But, due to the changing worldview—that enclosures pointed to progress—the court decided that the word inhabitant was so vague as to be meaningless. The court ruled that only a landowner, a laborer working for a landowner, or a tenant—an individual carrying proof of renting space from a landowner—could legally invoke rights of use. Unconditioned use-rights were no longer a legal reason for being on the land, for the land was now tied to the signature of a specific individual.</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This judicial transformation of the Self from ‘‘inhabitant’’ to ‘‘tenant’’ or ‘‘landlord’’ marks a foundational displacement. Etymologically, the word names a logic quite different from the commodification of subjectivity within the economy of tenancy, or the status of sovereignty accorded to landlords. Inhabiting stems from the word habiting (from the French habiter ), that is, ‘‘to have dealings with,’’ ‘‘cohabit,’’ ‘‘dwell,’’ ‘‘inhabit.’’ But it also is part of the realm of Being itself: the Latin Habe¯ re, meaning ‘‘to have,’’ ‘‘to be constituted,’’ ‘‘to be.’’31 In the word inhabitant, the Self and the land are not thought of as unrelated entities. Rather, they can only be thought from out of their relation to one another: The inhabitant is that person who is constituted by dwelling and having dealings with a particular place and cohabiting with a particular people. The word itself names relation and grounds that relation in the land, in a logic markedly different from the later eighteenth-century idea of individualism or the twentieth-century notion of a transcendent subjectivity. Arguing that one is the best, the most successful inhabitant, immediately resonates as odd, whereas within the problematic of individualism, ‘‘the most successful individual’’ is determinant. Individuality posits selfhood as being grounded within the self, thereby creating the opposition of an enclosure or barrier holding together the essence of an inner self standing against another self. Inhabitancy names a relation to exteriority and as such opens a way of thinking subjectivity as standing upon a structure that gives it support and meaning: Land sets up humankind. It is a thinking of the self as ‘‘standing upon,’’ in the sense of ‘‘being supported by.’’ Thought in this manner, the ontology of subjectivity is utterly anti-Cartesian. Within the logic of enclosure, instead of the human subject being ‘‘set up’’ by the land, the human subject sets up the land, territorializes it with its positive presence, places an individual name upon the land. Land is deprived of its foundational offering, and that foundation subsequently is placed within the self. With this shift, all questions concerning the structures that inform and construct the self disappear. No longer an inhabitant borne along by the land, the self becomes a sovereign subject, a being enframed by an enclosure who subjects the land, challenging it to produce higher yields for national standards: point for point the logical economy of Robinson Crusoe.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Enclosure</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, therefore, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">overcodes the land, placing on the land a gridwork of oppositions, not only inside versus outside, but by extension, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">individual against individual, ethnicity against ethnicity, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">nation against nation</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">.32</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">Instead of attempting to develop and define that which exists beyond definition, we embrace the unknowability of both space and its terrestrial counterpart—the desert—the same way we affirm the resolution. We affirm the topical “nothing” which is not opposed to, but part of</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">Resolved: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its exploration and/or development of space beyond the Earth's mesosphere. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 110%;">We affirm the nothing which is not external to but is produced by, inside of, and belongs to the topic. It is the nonvision of vision. We refuse to respond to our anxiety with an attempt to presence the resolution by breaking it down, staking out its boundaries in a way that treats beings as manageable and exploitable. We also refuse to abide by debate mandates that require us to trade our unique agency as youth and students now for some imagined future world as policy-makers. As Henry Giroux argues, we have unique power as students:</span>**
<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 20px;"> </span>
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">(Henry A. Giroux, "Channel surfing: racism, the media and the destruction of today's youth." 1998)</span>**

<span style="font-size: 110%;">But in spite of such social and economic differences between generations, there is much to be leered from the sixties in addressing the "Crisis" of youth as it unfolds the streets, neighborhoods, schools, media, and state apparatuses. The legacy of sixties activism provides a resource for understanding how the language of critique and possibility opened up a new sense of agency for young people to enter into a dialogue with power, history, and knowledge.Contradictory and multiple in both how they took hold of their sense of purpose and meaning,<span class="ReadingTextF6">sixties activists suggested a notion of youth linked not merely to an unbridled narcissism, but to a redefinition of democracy as a vibrant and played a vital role in ending both segregation and a morally dubious war and in promoting democratic social change.</span> In the current climate, childhood and youth are no longer treasured for their role in providing a prophetic vision, a multinarrated dream in which hope becomes the bias for critical agency and civic courage. </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"><span class="ReadingTextF6">But historyis open</span><span class="SmallTextF4">,</span>and those adults who felt so comfortable in the fifties also were unaware of the coming storm of the sixties. Youth are symbolically central to the reproduction of society. But even where youth in the past were seen as both troubled and troubling, adults used the "crisis" of youth to order, regulate, and appeal to future generations to take up the demands and relations of power of the existing social order. Seen as the "other,"<span class="SmallTextF4">a</span><span class="ReadingTextF6">dults expressed concern and alarm in their attempt to assimilate youth to existing relations of power and dominant values</span>. In this scenario, youth were in transit between being outside and coming inside. Something has change in the last decade. Many youth not only are situated beyond the margins of acceptable society, but also are seen as irrelevant to the way in which society unfolds. The "crisis" of youth is really about the crisis of adult society and democracy in general. Fortunately,<span class="ReadingTextF6"> there is always an indeterminacy in youth, </span>a vibrancy that seems to exceed the limits adults place on them; <span class="ReadingTextF6">this is what makes youth appear dangerous and at the same time provides the ground for prophetic action.</span> Maybe new storm clouds are formulating so that the twenty-first century will awaken to a new generation of kids willing to put a stop to the suffering and oppression that has become so endemic to American society, willing to challenge a society that seems spiritually and ethically frozen with regard to its responsibilities to the present and its vision of the future.</span>
<span class="ReadingTextF6"> </span>
<span class="ReadingTextF6"> </span>
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And so our role of the ballot is who best methodologically views the nothing positively. We realize that our philosophical stance has flaws and may fail. However, instead of attempting to find differences between certain branches of thought, we need to find similarities that allow for projects to resist disciplinary compartmentalization which ensures failure. Our advocation of ontology inserts a liberating question to the problematic, allowing for true reformation. </span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Spanos 2K</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(William V., English and Comparative Literature Prof @ Binghamton, Heideggerian scholar, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, |MB|)</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">Having learned from its fate at the </span>//<span style="font-family: Times-Italic,serif;">hands </span>//<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">of the colonial regime of truth, however, </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">such a </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">differential/</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">exilic thinking</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;"> of the </span>//<span style="font-family: Times-Italic,serif;">Abgeschiedene, </span>//<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">unlike the modes of opposition that </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">sanguinely </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">continue to think in the ontological terms prescribed by the master discourse, is </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">not only </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">enabled to refuse to play by the rules of its imperial logic. It is also enabled to transform this negative condition into a positive force of resistance</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">. As I hope these chapters have shown, such a strategic "nomadic" thinking, more than any other that is currently available, will be adequate to the task of writing the history of the present and, though it may in the end be the same thing, of deterring liberal capitalist democracy and the </span>//<span style="font-family: Times-Italic,serif;">Pax Americana.</span>//</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">But, it needs to be underscored, the self-de-struction of the imperial truth discourse of the post-Enlightenment incumbent on the fulfillment of its ontologic should not merely be thought in terms of resisting an oppressive and banalizing tradition. For this dis-closure of its plenary circle also and simultaneously releases </span>//<span style="font-family: Times-Italic,serif;">pro-jective </span>//<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">possibilities. </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">To think positively the spectral Other that haunts Occidental thought</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">—"the shadow that the light of Being has not been able to illumine," in Enrique Dussel's resonant formulation24 </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">— is, therefore, to open up the possibility of a different idea </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">of the </span>//<span style="font-family: Times-Italic,serif;">polis </span>//<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">from that envisioned by the metaphysical </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">(and Roman) </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">West. It is, </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">finally, to bring into being </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">(to liberate) the thought of a differential polity</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">, a polity </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">in which the dialogue</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;"> that is the essential condition of our mortal being-with </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">takes place not in the seductive paradisal realm</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;"> to which it has, in fact, been strategically </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">confined by liberal democracy, but in </span>//<span style="font-family: Times-Italic,serif;">this </span>//<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">unequal world, where imbalance of power — and injustice — always rules.</span></span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Ontology is inevitable – questioning the way we think about things is THE KEY to an effective understanding of all forms of modern political violence from genocide to totalitarianism—movements become oppressive without questioning ontology. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Michael </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Dillon</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">MA and PhD and Professor in Department of philosophy, politics, and religion @ University of Lancaster</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, **__1999__**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">, __Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics__ Pgs. 96-98</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Perhaps the most important development in the history of philosophy in the last hundred years has been the return of the ontological in con­tinental thought. By this I mean that since Nietzsche and Heidegger, in particular, and the crisis of historicism, in general, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ontology has</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> not only </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">become the</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> principal focus of thought, but the onto-theological </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">underpinnings of Western thought as a whole</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> — the ways in which it had previously posed and addressed the very question of Being as such, from Plato's //eidos// to Hegel's Absolute Spirit, and through the theism of Christian theology—has been subjected to a devastating reappraisal.3 That ontologizing move — in itself not a single monolithic but a plural turn of thought that, in the early Heidegger aspired to the production of a fundamental ontology and in the later Heidegger flirted with the possibility of escaping metaphysics altogether—was what gave rise to all subsequent debates about foundationalism and antifoundationalism. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">The question of ontology</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> was not only reposed, however; the charge was also laid, to equally devastating effect, that the onto-theological yearnings </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">that characterized Western thought were the source of its own understated but pervasive life-inimical violence</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">The return of the ontological</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (which occurred in part, also, through the so-called "Language Turn" in philosophy) </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">was</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, therefore, no mere turn of thought. It was </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">prompted by</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> and resonated with the </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">historical</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> changes and </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">events of</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">: bureaucratization and rationalization, global industrialization and technologization, and the advent of mass society, world war, and holocaust, which themselves chal­lenged statesmen and women, as well as thinkers, to reconsider the char­acter of the civilization they inhabited and the trajectory down which its own dynamics seemed to be propelling it.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">World War I was pivotal in this regard. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">The</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> subsequent </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">advent of to­talitarianism, together with the destruction of European Jewry, the ad­vent of genocide as a regular tool of policy, and the invention, employ­ment, and global deployment of weapons of mass destruction completed the turn.Philosophy and politics were intimately</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, if obscurely and con­fusedly, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">allied in these developments</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">in respect not only of science and technology, but also in terms of political movements, ideology, and the evolution of the thought of politics itself</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">. Whereas the political and eco­nomic character of the age seemed to demand a fundamental reappraisal of the fundaments to which it held, the philosophical reappraisal of the fundaments called, in their turn, for a political reappraisal of the age. Modernity became the question, but the question was increasingly formulated in ways that were concerned less with its realization and more with whether or not it was capable of being outlived. Heirs to all this, we find ourselves in the turbulent and now globalized wake of its confluence. As Heidegger—himself an especially revealing figure of the deep and mutual implication of the philosophical and the political4 — never tired of pointing out, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">the relevance of ontology to all other kinds of thinking is fundamental and inescapable.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> For </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">one cannot say anything about any­thing that //is,// without always already having made assumptions about the //is// as such</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Any mode of thought,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> in short, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">always already carries an ontology sequestered within it</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">. What this ontological turn does to other—regional—modes of thought is to challenge the ontology within which they operate. The implications of that review reverberate through­out the entire mode of thought, demanding a reappraisal as fundamen­tal as the reappraisal ontology has demanded of philosophy. With ontology at issue, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">the entire foundations or underpinnings of any mode of thought are rendered problematic</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">. This applies as much to any modern discipline of thought as it does to the question of moder­nity as such, with the exception, it seems, of science, which, having long ago given up the ontological questioning of when it called itself natural philosophy, appears now, in its industrialized and corporatized form. to be invulnerable to ontological perturbation. With its foundations at issue, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">the very authority of a mode of thought and the ways in which it characterizes the critical issues of freedom and judgment</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (of what kind of universe human beings inhabit, how they inhabit it, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">and what counts as reliable knowledge for them in it) is also put in question</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">. The very ways in which Nietzsche, Heidegger, and other continental philosophers challenged Western </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">ontology</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, simultaneously, therefore </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">reposed the fun­damental</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> and inescapable difficulty, or //aporia,// for human </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">being of de­cision and judgment</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">. In other words, whatever ontology you subscribe to, knowingly or unknowingly, as a human being you still have to act. Whether or not you know or acknowledge it, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">the ontology you subscribe to will con­strue the problem of action for you in one way rather than another</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">. You may think ontology is some arcane question of philosophy, but Nietz­sche and Heidegger showed that it intimately shapes not only a way of thinking, but a way of being, a form of life. Decision, a fortiori </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">political decision</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, in short, is no mere technique. It </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">is</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> instead </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">a way of being</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> that bears an understanding of Being, and of the fundaments of the human way of being within it. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">This applies</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, indeed applies </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">most, to those mock-innocent political slaves who claim only to be technocrats of decision making</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">.</span></span>


==1AC The Desert (Old)== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We begin with a place seemingly unrelated to the vacuum of space, yet oddly similar in its vast emptiness. The distinctly barren terrain of the desert places a unique ontological thought in the discussion of space policy. </span>**
**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Beck,</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">John, 19</span>**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">63</span>**//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Without Form and Void: The American Desert as Trope and Terrain”</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __Nepantla: Views from South__ - Volume 2, Issue 1, 2001, pp. 63-83</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Before the... ...</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> in North America.”</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We s</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">tand in the interregnum, or more specifically the desert, of the resolution and peer over the edge of the topical abyss. William Spanos writes that this abyss is “</span>**//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">a realm of in-between—the No more of the gods that have fled and the Not-yet of the god that is coming.” </span>//**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">It is in the status-quo development of this abyss that we find metaphysics. Current modes of thought view space, and the desert, in one of two roles: either productive and bountiful or unproductive and useless. Spanos defines Metaphysics as</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">:</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Spanos 2K</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(William V., Prof @ Univ. of Binghamton, Heideggerian scholar & literary critic, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg 8-11 [AL])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Metaphysics is thus... ...and sociopolitical) manifestations.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We return to Beck as he describes how the desert, the wild wasteful nothing, must be cultivated because it threatens "productive" ideals:</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Beck, John, 1963 </span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Without Form and Void: The American Desert as Trope and Terrain”</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __Nepantla: Views from South__ - Volume 2, Issue 1, 2001, pp. 63-83</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Something about</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">... ...</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> is this ‘nothing’</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> ” (Heidegger 1949, 335–36).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Space, so similar to the desert, has become the nothing of metaphysics. It is viewed through the trope of the empty wasteland, the vast unproductive nothingness. This nothing is difference, the in-between, the inhabited space of the bar that is excluded from policy discourse.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> **The response that status-quo space policy has to the nothing is informed by one of two metaphysical paths: either accommodate the nothing or banish it. Metaphysical thought assumes that this nothing must be converted to something; the wild, wasteful desert must be cultivated into a productive field, and the vast nothingness of space must be transformed into a site of productive existence.** </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Spanos 2K</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(William V., English and Comparative Literature Prof @ Binghamton, Heideggerian scholar, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg. 11-12 |MB|)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">However that "otherly"... ...</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> to the latter's essential truth.</span>__</span>**


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">The United States has answered the challenge of the nothing by turning space into a new arena for the cycle of massacre and domination—a place to renew the American identity of exceptionalism and establish the Unites States as the preeminent sovereign over an endless territory.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Raymond </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Duvall</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Prof. U. Minnesota </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">&</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jonathan </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Havercroft</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> U. Victoria, “Taking Sovereignty Out of This World: Space Weaponization and the Production of Late-Modern Political Subjects”, Prepared for presentation at the annual meetings of the International Studies Association, 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">06</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, p.[[http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p98680_index.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">In Volume One of Capital...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;"> ...</span><span class="ReadingTextChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">innovation, and exceptionalism.</span>**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Also, the history of Imperialism and development are intertwined and both extend through multiple facets of life. Metaphorically, linguistically, and practically the two phenomena are very similar.</span>**
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Spanos 2K</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(William V., English and Comparative Literature Prof @ Binghamton, Heideggerian scholar, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg. 94-99 |MB|)</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">This imperial relay</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">... ...and is Edward Said's immediate concern.64</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">To compliment Spanos, we provide Robert Marzec’s research about the history of enclosure that helps to reveal the complicitous nature of ontology and development with imperialism. The control of empty space is part of a master narrative of imperial closure that places the land into a series of binary oppositions. </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Marzec</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Robert. 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">02</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> “Enclosures, Colonization, and the Robinson Crusoe Syndrome:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">A Genealogy of Land in a Global Context”, boundary 2 29.2 (2002) 129-156.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">But to those... ... </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">nation against nation</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.32</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We return to John Beck as he notes how the attempt to accommodate the desert alters its identity to that of a site for instrumentality:</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Beck, John, 1963 </span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Without Form and Void: The American Desert as Trope and Terrain”</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __Nepantla: Views from South__ - Volume 2, Issue 1, 2001, pp. 63-83</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Under the sign of vacancy</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">... ...</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">precariously over the abyss of noplace</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">” (186).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Instead of attempting to develop and define that which exists beyond definition, we embrace the unknowability of both space and its terrestrial counterpart—the desert—the same way we affirm the resolution. We affirm the topical “nothing” which is not opposed to, but part of</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Resolved: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its exploration and/or development of space beyond the Earth's mesosphere. </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Marzec evidence also identifies the problem of approaching the world through certain frameworks. The desire to enclose discussion and make it manageable continues imperialism. It limits the questions we ask and the answers we can arrive at. These frameworks must accommodate discussion and inquiry or banish them, much the same way American policy seeks to accommodate or banish cultures outside of itself. More specifically, Beck notes that the Desert, the site of the nothing, is threatening to the “civilized world” //because// of its nothingness. The response we offer to the imperialist framework of the debate community is to infuse ontology into a concept of the problematic. We affirm the nothing which is not external to but is produced by, inside of, and belongs to the topic. It is the nonvision of vision. </span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We refuse to respond to our anxiety with an attempt to presence the resolution by breaking it down, staking out its boundaries in a way that treats beings as manageable and exploitable. We also refuse to abide by debate mandates that require us to trade our unique agency as youth and students now for some imagined future world as policy-makers. As Henry Giroux argues, we have unique power as students:</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Henry A. Giroux, "Channel surfing: racism, the media and the destruction of today's youth." 1998)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">But in spite of...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ...its vision of the future.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">And so our role of the ballot is who best methodologically views the nothing positively. We realize that our philosophical stance has flaws and may fail. However, instead of attempting to find differences between certain branches of thought, we need to find similarities that allow for projects to resist disciplinary compartmentalization which ensures failure. Our advocation of ontology inserts a liberating question to the problematic, allowing for true reformation. </span>**
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Spanos 2K</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(William V., English and Comparative Literature Prof @ Binghamton, Heideggerian scholar, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, |MB|)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Having learned from its... ...</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;"> — and injustice — always rules.</span>__</span>**


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ontology is inevitable – questioning the way we think about things is THE KEY to an effective understanding of all forms of modern political violence from genocide to totalitarianism—movements become oppressive without questioning ontology. </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Michael </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dillon</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">MA and PhD and Professor in Department of philosophy, politics, and religion @ University of Lancaster</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, **__1999__**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, __Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics__ Pgs. 96-98</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps the most important development... ...</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">only to be technocrats of decision making</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

=Negative= 

==Topcality== 
===T - Substantial=== 
**__A. Interpretation__- Substantial means at least 50% increase**
**Substantial increase, in the context of space, is 50%**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shifrin 1987</span> [Carole, Space Technology, “Soviets Consider Possible Mars Rover, Sample Return Missions”, Lexis]

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Allen cited the space station .... that existed in the past."</span>



==Kritiks== 

===Give the Land Back=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">I am tired of fighting. Our chiefs are killed. </span>**[[http://www2.gsu.edu/~eslmlm/chiefjoseph.html#Looking|**Looking Glass**]]**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">is dead. </span>**[[http://www2.gsu.edu/~eslmlm/chiefjoseph.html#Toolhusote|**Toohulhulsote**]]**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">is dead. The old men are all dead. It is the young men who say yes or no.</span>**[[http://www2.gsu.edu/~eslmlm/chiefjoseph.html#He who led the young|**He who led the young**]]**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">men is dead.</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> **It is cold and we have no blankets. The little children are freezing to death. My people, some of them, have run away to the hills and have no blankets, no food. No one knows where they are--perhaps freezing to death. I want to have time to look for my children and see how many I can find. Maybe I shall find them among the dead.** **Hear me, my chiefs. I am tired. My heart is sick and sad. From where the sun now stands, I will fight no more forever.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">- </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia;">Thunder Rolling Down the Mountain</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The aff ignores the prior question of Native American colonization. Where are we? How did we get here? What right does our government have to exist? They fail to come to terms with a basic material fact: we are colonial occupiers of stolen land. Failure to address these questions means that their politics of liberation will fail. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Kenis, 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (Acts of Rebellion: The Ward Churchill Reader, “I am Indigenist: Notes on the Ideology of the Fourth World”).</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 120%;">[Leaving aside questions ... in North America.]</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Their project is destroyed by the failure to address colonial violence. No state can both wage a racist war within its borders and claim to engage in politics of liberation. Moreover, they will make things WORSE because the continued failure of progressivism will result in a public disenchanted with the very notion of fundamental change.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Kenis, 03 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (Acts of Rebellion: The Ward Churchill Reader. THE NEW FACE OF LIBERATION: </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Indigenous Rebellion, State Repression, and the Reality of the Fourth World).</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 120%;">[It’s time to stop ... for a replacement.]</span>




**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Given the aff's negligence,</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">alternative is to reject the affirmative in favor of indigenous land return</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">. This must come before engaging the aff, which abandons material questions in favor of theoretical gestures that only serve to comfort colonial oppressors. And, our dissent in this round can help unravel the United States from the inside out and bring liberation.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Kenis, 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (Acts of Rebellion: The Ward Churchill Reader, “I am Indigenist: Notes on the Ideology of the Fourth World”).</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 120%;">[But before I ... part of the solution.]</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Taking the decolonization of North America seriously is the only way to control the state. It is impossible to end oppression without starting from the perspective of the natives. Otherwise, extinction is inevitable.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Kenis, 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (Acts of Rebellion: The Ward Churchill Reader, “Radioactive Colonization”).</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 110%;">[It is worth ... liked to say).] </span>



===Capitalism=== 


**A. Link-the affirmative’s Capitalist order uses democratic multiculturalism utilizes violently imposed identities to establish human rights**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Slavoj </span><span class="cite">Zizek</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, professor of philosophy at the university of Ljubljana, __The Ticklish Subject: The Absent Centre of Political Ontology__, </span><span class="cite">1999</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, pg. 213-214</span>

However, <span class="underline">there is another ....</span> based on the repression of previous local traditions.


**B. Impact-Capital’s destructive cycle will lead to the end of humanity**

Slavoj <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zizek</span>, professor of philosophy at the university of Ljubljana, __The Ticklish Subject: The Absent Centre of Political Ontology__, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1999</span>, pg. 4

While this book ... for the Cartesian subject.

**C. Alternative- vote negative use the affirmative’s empty Master-Signifier to place a demand on the state- this can be a rallying point for radical change**
Slavoj <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zizek</span>, professor of philosophy at university of Ljubljana, __The Indivisible Remainder: An Essay on Schelling and Related Matters__, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1996</span>, pg. 142
<span class="underline">Therein resides </span>the fundamental ...<span class="underline"> what ‘our Nation’ means</span>.54


===Beneath the Neon=== 


//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">DING! </span>//**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">FIRST STOP! LAS VEGAS!</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burke 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Adam, Writer for NPR) December 4, 2008 “Sucked into the tunnels underneath Las Vegas” [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=97800190]]</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">It would be easy</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">...</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> ...</span>__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">and pulse of the lights.</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">MUCH LIKE THE NEON LIGHTS OF LAS VEGAS, THE FLICKERING STARS ABOVE HAVE BECOME A TOURIST TRAP, BLINDING US FROM THE OPPRESSIVE REALITY SOCIETY’S MOST DISADVANTAGED MEMBERS ENDURE. MUMIA ABU JAMAL CALLED THIS INTO QUESTION WHEN HE SAID. </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mumia Abu-Jamal 1998 [“A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98, [[http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">It has often been observed that</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">America is a truly violent nation</span>__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">as shown by the thousands of cases of social and communal violence that occurs daily in the nation. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">**__Every year__**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">,</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> some </span>__**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">20,000 people are killed</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">... ...</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> every decade, throughout the world."</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Gilligan, p. 196]</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">IT IS IN THIS NEON HYPNOSIS THAT WE FIND THE AFFIRMATIVE, TOO CAUGHT UP IN REACHING FOR THE SKIES TO CARE ABOUT THE PEOPLE UNDERGROUND. TO ADDRESS THIS OPPRESSION WE MUST FIRST RECOGNIZE THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS HERMETICALLY TRAPPED IN ITS OWN IDEALS, AND CONTINUALLY SACRIFICES THE OTHER IN THE NAME OF ITS GLORIOUS NEON LIGHTS.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wadiwel in 02</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Dinesh Joesph, “Cows and Sovereignty: Biopower and Animal Life” Borderlands E-Journal Vol.1 #2)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">But </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="background-color: aqua;">such a political program ...</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> ...shared by both entities</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">POLITICS, OR DEBATE TEAMS, THAT CHOOSE TO IGNORE THE REALITY OF OPPRESSION ONLY SERVE TO CREATE AND RE-CREATE THAT OPPRESSION, AND FAIL TO CREATE ANY REAL CHANGE. </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Paulo </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Friere</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Pedagogy of the Oppressed, Chapter 1, educator and director of the Department of Cultural Extension of Recife University,19</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">70</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">For the truly humanist educator... ...good intentions notwithstanding</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">OUR ALTERNATIVE IS TO PUSH DOWN; TO BEGIN POLITICS FROM THE STANDPOINT OF THE OPPRESSED. THESE POLITICS ARE ABLE TO COMBAT OPPRESSION THROUGH A KNOWLEDGE BASED STANDPOINT FROM THOSE WHO HAVE NOTHING ELSE TO GIVE. THIS KNOWLEDGE IS KEY TO BREAK DOWN THE OPPRESSIVE POWER STRUCTURES THAT GOVERN US.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333;">Brent R.</span><span class="CiteChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Henze</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333;">“Who Says Who Says?: The Epistemological Grounds for Agency in Liberatory Political </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Projects.” Found in Reclaiming Identity: Realist theory and the predicament of postmodernism. Edited by Paula Moya and Michael Hames-Garcia</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">CONCLUSION: WHAT ROLE CAN OTHERS PLAY IN THE POLITICS OF THE OPPRESSED?... </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">...**to combat oppression as a systemic yet particular effect of power**</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">.</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">OUR ROLE OF THE BALLOT IS WHO BEST PERFORMATIVELY AND METHODOLOGICALLY CHALLENGES STRUCTURAL VIOLENCE. </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">VOTING NEGATIVE IS AN ENDORSEMENT TO INCLUDE AND LISTEN TO THE VOICES OF THOSE WHOM WE HAVE FORGOTTEN. IN OTHER WORDS, WE CHOOSE TO IGNORE THE TEMPTING GLARE OF THE NEON LIGHTS AND RIDE THE ELEVATOR DOWN TO THE PEOPLE WHO LIVE BENEATH THE NEON.</span>**



===Taoism=== 


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Death and misfortune are inevitable. __Plans__ to fix the world are rooted in an egotistical desire for management and control that is the root cause of all suffering and violence.</span>**
**__Slabbert ’01__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher “Tao Te Ching: Qualities of Compassion: How to Deal With Suffering,” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>



//__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">"If you open yourself...</span>__//__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">damage we will do."</span>__



**The alternative is to****take no action to create desired ends—this is no mere resignation but rather an acceptance of the notion that we are created out of a combination of movements and will be part of a further transformation after our deaths**
**__Kirkland ’96__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Russell, professor of Asian religions and Taoism at the University of Georgia, “The Book of the Way,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Great Literature of the Eastern World</span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">"Specifically, __the Tao__ is ...__thwart its unceasing operation."__</span>



===Lizards=== 



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lizards have infiltrated our governments</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Icke</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, former BBC journalist, conspiracy theorist, the most controversial author and speaker in the world, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">1999</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, The Biggest Secret: The Book That Will Change the World, p. 25-27</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"My own research... predominantly the white one."</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They are the problem they create to push an agenda</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Icke</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, former BBC journalist, conspiracy theorist, the most controversial author and speaker in the world, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">1999</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, The Biggest Secret: The Book That Will Change the World, p. x-xiii</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"We are on</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the cusp...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> It’s that simple."</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Impact is fascism</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Icke</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, former BBC journalist, conspiracy theorist, the most controversial author and speaker in the world, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">1999</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, The Biggest Secret: The Book That Will Change the World, p. 273-74</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"The control and... on the way."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alt - Reject 1AC's problem-solution reaction to problems.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Icke</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, former BBC journalist, conspiracy theorist, the most controversial author and speaker in the world, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">1999</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, The Biggest Secret: The Book That Will Change the World, p. 464-66</span>
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">"The Brotherhood’s obsession...waking up to that."</span>

==Counter Plans== 


===Referendum CP=== 


Text – The United States Federal Government should [insert plan text]

only if the action conforms with the outcome of a binding national referendum. The United States Federal Government should submit the proposed action for a binding national referendum. We’ll clarify.

**-- The Counterplan is Competitive –**

**1. Not topical –**


**Immediate, unconditional action is mandated – “Resolved” means “a firm decision”, and “should” is “used to imply obligation or duty”**

**[American Heritage Dictionary at dictionary.com]**

**Also, Referendum makes legal change uncertain**

**__Kilmark 98__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Jeffrey Allan, J.D. Candidate – Arizona State University College of Law, “Government Knows Best? An Analysis of the Governor's Power to Veto and the Legislature's Power to Repeal or Amend Voter-Enacted Initiative and Referendum Petitions in Arizona”, Arizona State Law Journal, Fall, 30 Ariz. St. L.J. 829, Lexis]-AC</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to reserving ... </span>**__proclaims the referendum to be law__**. [[http://www.lexisnexis.com.vortex3.uco.edu:2050/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1262379259087&returnToKey=20_T8229060382&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.13348.831607479238#n26|n26]]


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">--Solvency--</span>**
**THE CP WOULD SOLVE THE CASE 100%; IT’S POPULAR AND WOULD BE SUPPORTED BY A NATIONAL VOTE.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Whittington</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Mark. **2011. <**[[http://news.yahoo.com/poll-contradictory-findings-public-support-nasa-space-exploration-164100958.html]]> </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"In the wake ... </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> plus</span> <span class="yshortcuts" style="font-size: 6pt;">budget deficits</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">."</span>



**--NET BENEFIT--**
**BINDING REFERENDUMS REFRAME CURRENT INSTITUTIONS TO ALLOW DIRECT CONTROL FROM THE MULTITUDE. REPRESENTATIVE STRUCTURES ISOLATE ISSUES BY LEAVING POLICYMAKING UP TO THE TECHNOCRATS AND ELITES; CAUSING THE DEPOLITICIZATION OF THE PUBIC SPHERE**.
**__Rourke__** **__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">92</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> [John-Prof. of political science, Univ. of Conn. et al, Direct Democracy and International Politics: Deciding International Issues through Referendums, p. 17]-AC</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">"Carole Pateman offers ... </span>**__initiating legislation.”__**


**AND REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY JUSTIFIES BIOPOLITICS, TURNS THE CASE AND MAKES WAR INEVITABLE, WE MUST MOBILIZE POWER POSITIVELY FOR THE MULTITUDE.**

**__Hardt and Negri 09__** [<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Michael-Professor Duke University, PhD, Comparative Literature, University of Washington, 1990 and Antonio-an Italian political philosopher, __Commonwealth__, Harvard University Press, 2009, pg. 204-206</span>]-AC

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">"The metaphor of ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">**__the power of decision__."** </span></span>


===**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ESA CP</span>**=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial; line-height: 20px;">**Text: The European Space Agency should [do the plan]**</span>



**Counterplan solves the case**
**Brauer and Monte 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gerard and Luca del, Gerard is the head of the ESA, “European Space Research and Developmentfor the Security and Military Sectors” pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The above described scenario ... to serve defence requirements.</span>



**Uniqueness & Link-Space policy is key to sustain EU Space dominance and heg**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">EC 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (European Commission, “Bringing Space Down to Earth”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/policies/space/index_en.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 1/20/2011) SV</span>
__Europe needs an ...__ __comprehensive European Space Policy.__

**EU leadership key to solving (prolif), (middle east peace)**
**<span class="underline">Ischinger 7 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">German ambassador to Britain, Wolfgang. “Can the EU Fill Leadership Void Left by US?” China Daily, March 22, http://www.china.org.cn/english/international/203945.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">In 1990, Charles Krauthammer ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> welcome the European moment</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Proliferation causes extinction**
**Victor <span class="cite">Utgoff</span>** (Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division at the Institute for Defense Analysis) <span class="cite">2002</span> “Proliferation, Missile Defence and American Ambitions” Summer Survival
In sum, <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">widespread proliferation ...</span> is in no nation’s interest.


**Extinction outweighs everything else—if our probability is greater than a billionth of one percent we win**
**BOSTROM 2011** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Nick, Prof. of Philosophy at Oxford, The Concept of Existential Risk (Draft), [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">Holding probability constant, ... of such an action.</span>


**European global leadership necessary to arrest climate change, control global pandemics, and solve terrorism**
**__Nye 08__-[**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joseph Nye, Harvard JFK School, The St. Petersburg Times, March 4, 2008, p. 17]</span>
__U.S. military might is ... European policies and power.__


**Middle East conflict causes global nuclear war**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Steinbach 2002</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> **–** Analyst, Center for Research on Globalisation , http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">the existence of ... trigger a world conflagration."</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(44)</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]