[[toc]]
Catherine- 2A/Alec- 2N
Cites? [[mailto:paulson.alec@gmail.com|paulson.alec@gmail.com]]
=Aff - Valley= 

**No SPS now - budgetary issues**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Shiga 08</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">, David, staff writer for NewScientist, Short, Sharp Science, “will Obama pursue Space Based Solar Power?”, 22 December 2008, http://www.newscientist.com/blogs/shortsharpscience/2008/12/will-obama-pursue-space-based.html</span>


**Plan: The United States federal government should develop and deploy space based solar power.**

**Contention 2 is warming:**

**Warming is real, anthropogenic and will hit a tipping point within a couple decades without SBSP – causes extinction**
<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Hsu, 10</span>__</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">,</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">(Dr. Feng Hsu is Sr. Vice President Systems Engineering & Risk Management Space Energy Group, Winter 2010, Online Journal of Space Communication, Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html)</span>


**Feedbacks mean that significant emission cuts are key**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Hansen 8</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – Professor of Earth and Environmental Science, James E. Hanson, head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University, Al Gore’s science advisor, “Briefing before the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming,” US House of Representatives, 6-23-2008, “Twenty years later: tipping points near on global warming,” http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/TwentyYearsLater_20080623.pdf</span>


**SBSP is the only technology that can solve warming**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Hsu, 10</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">, (Dr. Feng Hsu is Sr. Vice President Systems Engineering & Risk Management Space Energy Group, Winter 2010, Online Journal of Space Communication, Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html) </span>


**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Warming conflicts go nuclear - most likely scenario for war</span>**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Townsend and Harris 04</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">(Citing Pentagon-commissioned report done by Andrew Marshall, US Military Consultant, and Peter Schwartz, CIA Consultant,Mark and Paul, Writer for the Observer, " Now the Pentagon tells Bush: climate change will destroy us," Feb</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;"> 22 2004, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2004/feb/22/usnews.theobserver]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Contention 3 is hege**</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial;">**2 internals -**</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial;">**First is oil dependency -**</span>


**Oil dependency ties down the Army’s budget and undermines its fighting capability**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Wharton 9</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> (University of Pennsylvania School of Business, 1/30/09 “U.S. Military Hopes to Be Energized by Alternative Fuels” Wharton Aerospace and Defense Report http://executiveeducation.wharton.upenn.edu/wharton-aerospace-defense-report/upload/Military-Hopes-Energized-by-Fuel.pdf)</span>


**SPS solves flexible response and supply lines – provides mobile energy**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">NSSO 7</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> (National Security Space Office Report, 150 person international expert collaboration, 10/10/7 “Space</span><span style="font-family: 'Academy Engraved LET';">‐</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security” http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)</span>


**Flexible response and freed resources are key to heg**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Corrie et al 11</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (April, Tanya D. Corrie Thomas D. Crowley David B. Diamond Stuart D. Funk Wilhelm A. Hansen Andrea D. Stenhoff Daniel C. Swift, LMI Government Consulting “TRANSFORMING THE WAY DOD LOOKS AT ENERGY AN APPROACH TO ESTABLISHING AN ENERGY STRATEGY,”</span>


**SPS solves oil dependence**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">NSSO, 07</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">, SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, (National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Oil shocks cause extinction.</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Heinberg 03</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">(Richard, core faculty member at New College of California, The Party’s Over: Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies, 2003, p. 230)</span>


**Second is Aerospace**



**Aerospace industry is collapsing – SPS solves**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">NSSO, 7</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Aerospace leadership prevents global rivals</span>**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Snead, 07</span>__ **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">- </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Aerospace engineer and consultant focusing on Near-future space infrastructure development (Mike, “How America Can and Why America Must Now Become a True Spacefaring Nation,” Spacefaring America Blog, 6/3, http://spacefaringamerica.net/2007/06/03/6--why-the-next-president-should-start-america-on-the-path-to-becoming-a-true-spacefaring-nation.aspx)</span>


**Strong aerospace is critical to overall US military power – sustains heg**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">National Aerospace Week 10</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;"> (September 18, “Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America,” http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf) National Aerospace Week</span>


**Hegemony prevents nuclear war**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Kagan, 7</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;"> - </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>


**Solvency**


**No tech barriers, - demonstrations in 4 years,**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Ashworth ‘08</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;"> - Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society (Stephen, The Space Review, “In defense of the knights”, 6/23, <span style="color: #3366bb;">http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1153/1</span>)</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Government commitment is key</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Shea, 10</span>__**</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;"> – </span><span style="color: #000033; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Master of Arts in Science Technology and Public Policy with Specialty in Space Policy from the George Washington University</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (Karen, “</span><span style="color: #000033; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Why Has SPS R&D Received So Little Funding?”, Space Journal, </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html) </span>




=Negative= 
===**Valley**=== 
----
Rd. 2 vs. CARWASH (Asteroids)
1NC - Asteroids K, SKFTA, ESA CP, Case
2NR - ESA CP, SKFTA

Rd. 3 vs. Mpls South (Colonize Mars)
1NC - SKFTA, Oil DA, Privatize w/ STEM Plank, Cap K
2NR - Cap K

Rd. 6 vs. CARWASH (Asteroids)
1NC - Asteroids K, SKFTA, ESA CP, Space Mil DA, Case
2NR - SKFTA ESA CP

===U of M=== 

Rd. 2 vs. Mpls South (Colonize Mars)
1NC - Cap K, SKFTA, Oil DA, Privatize w/ STEM
2NR - SKFTA, Privatize CP, Solvency

Rd. 3 vs. Rosemount (SSA)
1NC - T-Commercial, Security K, Threaten China CP, Weapons DA
2NR - Threaten China CP

===Caucus=== 

Rd. 1 vs. Shawnee Mission East (SPS)
1NC - T-Commercial, Heidegger, Fiscal Discipline, Privatize CP, Russia Oil DA, Balance of Power DA
2NR - Warming Turns, Case

Rd. 3 vs. Groves (James Web Telescope)
1NC - T-Humans, EPA DA, Fiscal Discipline DA, Privatization CP
2NR - Privatization CP, Fiscal Discipline

Rd. 6 vs. Dowling (Hardening)
1NC - T-Commercial, Security K, EPA DA, H1-B Visas, Impact Turns
2NR - H1-B Visas, China War Good Turn

===Capital City=== 

Rd. 1 vs. Rosemount (SSA)
1NC - T-Commercial, Heidegger K, Space Weaponization DA, Threaten China CP
2NR - Heidegger K

Rd. 4 vs. Eagan (He-3)
1NC - T-Celestial Bodies, Spending DA, Privatization CP, Russia Oil, Heidegger K
2NR - Russia Oil, Case Turns

Rd. 6 vs. Eden Prairie (SBMD)
1NC - T-Commercial, BoP DA, Spending DA, Aegis CP, Heidegger K
2NR - Impact Turns

===Blake=== 

Rd. 1 vs. CRWASH (Asteroids)
1NC - T-Commercial, Heidegger K, Space Weaponization, Payroll Tax Cuts, ESA CP
2NR - ESA CP, Payroll Tax Cuts DA

Rd. 3 vs. GBS (RAMOS)
1NC - T-Its, PPWT CP, CCP DA, Heidegger K
2NR - Heidegger K

Rd. 5 vs. Maine East (ORS)
1NC - T-Preexisting, Heidegger K, HLV PIC, Space Weaponization, H1-Bs CP
2NR - Case Turns