[[toc]]
[[2011-2012 - Edina (MN) - Mimi Sergent-Leventhal & Erin Sielaff|Return to main page]]
=Black Paintings Neg= 
==Westside CF Neg== 
====Case Answers==== 
Critique has become commodified. The aff attempts to use their painting to create change – this will fail because their so-called “radical break” from the system isn’t radical – art has lost its power to create change. Their postmodern approach is simply an extension of modernism.
Giroux 8 (Alexandra, Master’s degree in European Studies from The Hague School of Higher European Studies, “The break of post-modernism”, http://www.alexandragiroux.net/does-post-modernism-constitute-a-break-from-modernism, dml)

Now that these different concepts has [...] was, between modernism and postmodernism.


Their idea that language is an empty conduit for discourse to shape is wrong – this is a normative conception of discourse that ignores the reality that much of traditional communication is ineffective.
Schlag 90 (Pierre, doesn’t like law professors very much yet still is one, Stanford Law Review, November, Lexis)

One answer is that normative legal [...] part of the participants in constructing communication


This means that the arguments that they will make in the 2AC about how their discussion in front of Guernica has tangible benefits on the world are fundamentally untrue. They rely on pure persuasive power to reap their discursive advantages – this ignores that their stories will never have any effect due to their reliance on traditional modes of communication.
the autonomous a.f.r.i.k.a.-group 98 (communication guerrillas, “What about Communication Guerrilla?”, http://www.copyriot.com/unefarce/no1/artikel/cg.htm, dml)

Traditional radical politics strongly rely on [...] within the framework of radical politics.


The power of radical criticism is gone – the discursive economy of cultural production has absorbed all possibilities for change. All critique occurs within this economy. Even radical postmodernism and avant-garde works of art like the aff have been coopted – the only way to create change is to subvert and critique dominant discourses.
Mann 99 (Paul, critical scholar, has written dozens of articles on the effects of critique, Masocriticism, the SUNY series in postmodern culture, “Preface,” pg x-xii, dml)

Even so, the first chapter [...] mistaken for productive self-criticism.


And, visual imagery is not argument—treating it as such either destroys the notion of argument or alters the visual so it is no longer useful
FLEMING 1996 (David, some kind of comm dude, Argumentation and Advocacy, Summer)

To sum up, argument is [...] is no longer The Great Gatsby.


Mars colonization spurs tech development—solves warming
FREEMAN 2011—major in neuroscience/ minor in philosophy (29 June 2011, “Humanity Should Begin Efforts to Colonize Mars,” http://www.debate.org/debates/Humanity-Should-Begin-Efforts-to-Colonize-Mars/1/, RBatra)

C1: Colonizing Mars has numerous [...] new industries that bring valuable jobs.


We have already crossed the threshold of sustainability – Continued technological advancement is key to undo the damage and prevent extinction of all species
AtKisson 1 (President and CEO of The AtKisson Group, an international sustainability consultancy to business and government, “Sustainability is Dead— Long Live Sustainability” http://www.rrcap.unep.org/uneptg06/course/Robert/SustainabilityManifesto2001.pdf)

The evidence that we are beyond [...] , and we can never stop.


Mars colonization solves Earth resource constraints
FREEMAN 11—major in neuroscience/ minor in philosophy (29 June 2011, “Humanity Should Begin Efforts to Colonize Mars,” http://www.debate.org/debates/Humanity-Should-Begin-Efforts-to-Colonize-Mars/1/, RBatra)

C2: There are overwhelming economic [...] the planet has for human life.


This is the only check on extinction
Garan, 10 – Astronaut (Ron, 3/30/10, Speech published in an article by Nancy Atkinson, “The Importance of Returning to the Moon,” http://www.universetoday.com/61256/astronaut-explains-why-we-should-return-to-the-moon/, JMP)

Resources and Other Benefits: Since [...] a sustainable permanent human lunar settlement.


Realism is true and inevitable – a shift away collapses into chaos.
Mearsheimer 2001 [professor of political science at University of Chicago, The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, pg. 361]

The optimists' claim that security competition [...] states in each region at peace.


us imperialism solves comparatively more violence then it leads to
Shaw 2K2 Martin Shaw, Professor of International Relations and Politics, University of Sussex, THE PROBLEM OF THE QUASI-IMPERIAL STATE: USES AND ABUSES OF ANTI-IMPERIALISM IN THE GLOBAL ERA, April 7, 2002, p. http:
//www.martinshaw.org/empire.htm//

//What is particularly important to note [...] look to violent means of change.//


//denouncing us imperialism makes slow intervention inevitable- the impact is genocide//
//Shaw 2K2 Martin Shaw, Professor of International Relations and Politics, University of//
//Sussex, THE PROBLEM OF THE QUASI-IMPERIAL STATE: USES AND ABUSES OF//
//ANTI-IMPERIALISM IN THE GLOBAL ERA, April 7, 2002, p. http://
www.martinshaw.org/empire.htm

Generally, therefore, Western power [...] manipulate to genuine global democratic governance.


rejecting u.s. imperialism makes retalitory violence against the us inevitable
Hollander 2K2 Paul Hollander, NATIONAL INTEREST, Summer 2002

The beliefs of this aging subculture [...] Shining Path? Maoists in Nepal?).


US leadership solves war
Zhang and Shi 11. (Both MA candidates at Columbia University. Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/

Paul Kennedy was probably right: [...] be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.


They are wrong – American exceptionalism and unipolarity is necessary to world peace
Robert Kagan, 2007 senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [“End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, web)

This is a good thing, [...] involvement will provide an easier path.


Keeping the American frontier open is necessary for human survival
GRAY 1999 (D.M., “Space as a frontier - the role of human motivation,” Space Policy, August)

Whether in the striking of a [...] obtained in the comforts of civilization.

=DSCOVR Neg= 
==National Climate Service CP== 
===1NC - St. Marks=== 
The United States federal government should create a National Climate Service.

Your author says it solves
Lewis et al., 2010 (James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)

The next step is to create [...] support for local governments and businesses.

==Case Answers== 
===College Prep LT Neg - St. Marks=== 
====Solar Flares Answers==== 
Solar Flares overhyped- empirically proven
Ian O’Neill, 6/21/08, founder and editor of Astroengine, “2012: No Killer Solar Flare”, http://www.universetoday.com/14645/2012-no-killer-solar-flare/

“Killer” solar flares have [...] but nothing more extreme than that.


Every report about the impact of solar flares has proven to be overstated
Bill Hudson, no date, astronomer at Fremont Peak Observatory, “Solar Flares”, http://www.2012hoax.org/solar-flares

Here are the facts: There [...] normal solar cycle are massively overstated.


DSCOVR is unnecessary- We can detect solar flares without using DSCOVR
Steve Connor, 6/13/11, science editor for “The Independent”, “’Conrolled’ power cuts likely as Sun storm threatens national grid”, http://wattsupwiththat.com/2011/06/13/power-grid-worries-flaring-over-solar-flares/

This is quite alarming, but [...] keep things running, he said.


Meltdowns inevitable
Peninsula Clarion, 1/5/01, daily newspaper of Alaska’s Kenai Peninsula, “Fire causes small radiation leak at North Pole test lab”, http://peninsulaclarion.com/stories/010501/ala_010501ala0130001.shtml

Authorities secured an area around the [...] in the center of the building.


NASA MONITORING SOLAR FLARES WITH SATELLITES NOW AND PREPARING CONTINGENCY PLANS, NO THREAT FROM SOLAR FLARES
HOUGHES ’10( A former executive on the newsdesk, he joined the paper after working at the Old Bailey, the London Evening Standard and Reuters. The Australian formerly worked in Adelaide as an award-winning reporter)<http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/7819201/Nasa-warns-solar-flares-from-huge-space-storm-will-cause-devastation.html>

Dr Fisher said precautions could be [...] handle a complete outage of electricity supplies


EARLIEST DSCOVR COULD LAUNCH WOULD BE 2014 WOULDN’T SOLVE FOR THE 2013 STORMS WHICH ALL OF THEIR IMAGINARY IMPACTS ARE BASED OFF OF
Brinton, July 12 (Turner Brinton, staff writer for Space News, July 12, 2011 “House Panel Denies Funding for Pair of NOAA Satellite Projects” Space News http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110718-house-panel-denies-funding-for-dscovr-cosmic-2-missions.html

If funds to refurbish DSCOVR are [...] , government and industry sources said.


NASA MONITORING SOLAR FLARES IN THE SQUO WITH $10
NASA ’11 (Lol, do I even need to say who NASA is? “Students Track Disruptive Space Weather in Real Time”)< http://www.nasa.gov/audience/foreducators/9-12/features/students-track-space-weather.html>

Scientists say the potential for a [...] sun from which the flare originated.


STANFORD UNIVERSITY AND NASA SOLVING FOR SOLAR FLARES IN THE SQUO
STANFORD SOLAR CENTER ’10 (Solar Center at Stanford for heliocyntrical studies in coalition with NASA “Sudden Ionospheric Disturbance Space Weather Monito”) < http://solar-center.stanford.edu/SID/Distribution/SuperSID/supersid_v1_1/Doc/SuperSIDManual_v1.pdf>

Stanford University's Solar Center has developed [...] the energy form of solar activity.

====Warming/Disease Answers==== 
Satellites can’t solve climate data.
Wigbels et. al, 8 – (July 2008, Lyn Wigbels, senior associate of Technology and Public Policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, G. Ryan Faith, CSIS Human Space Exploration Initiative, Vincent Sabathier, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, Center for Strategic Studies, “Earth Observations and Global Change,” Sawyer)

However, U.S. [...] planning needs of national security decisionmakers.

Their internal link relies on subsequent policy action – Obama won’t do it.
Cappiello ’11 Dina Cappiello is an award-winning environmental journalist who follows the story looking for specific, factual information about environmental problems that communities need in order to push for change. “Gore: On Global Warming, Obama Has Changed Little” 6/22 http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory?id=13900390

The Democrats' leading environmental messenger, [...] into an Oscar-winning documentary.


Satellite data backfires -- proves warming isn’t real. Human readings are ineffective
Taylor 1 (James, “Polar Ice Cap Studies Refute Catastrophic Global Warming Theories”, December 16)

Surface temperature readings taken by humans [...] general warming of the Earth's surface.


Warming is natural
BELL11-3-2010 (Larry, Prof at U Houston, http://www.forbes.com/2010/11/02/global-warming-climate-change-al-gore-opinions-columnists-larry-bell.html)

Yes, there is no doubt [...] frigid retreat from Russia (1812).


Too late to stop warming
CLICK GREEN 1-7-2011 (““Unstoppable effects” of climate change will last for 1,000 years,” http://www.clickgreen.org.uk/opinion/opinion/121749-%E2%80%9Cunstoppable-effects%E2%80%9D-of-climate-change-will-last-for-1,000-years.html)

New research indicates the impact of [...] beginning in 2010 and in 2100.


CO2 not key to warming – cooling through photosynthesis
Philip Haddad June 22, 2011 PhD Chem. E. retd. Carbon Dioxide does not Cause Global Warming!http://www.alvinsun.net/articles/2011/06/22/opinion/editorials/doc4e0228a53ed3d528547342.txt

There is a mistaken notion that [...] carbon dioxide provides cooling through photosynthesis.


It’s the sun’s fault – better data
S. Fred Singer et al., Distinguished Research Professor, George Mason University, NATURE, NOT HUMAN ACTIVITY RULES THE CLIMATE, Heartland Institute, Science and Environmental Policy Project, 2008, http://www.heartland.org/pdf/22835.pdf, accessed 4-27-08.

! The role of solar influences [...] 20th Century warming than GH effects.


Mass extinctions will not include humanity—we can isolate ourselves from collapsing environments
POWERS 2002 (Lawrence, Professor of Natural Sciences, Oregon Institute of Technology, The Chronicle of Higher Education, August 9)

Mass extinctions appear to result from [...] vanish before our distant descendants' eyes.


The fact that we are alive now is sufficient to prove that their evidence is just alarmism --- ZERO risk of cascading environmental collapse --- wealth and tech solve
Bailey, award-winning science correspondent for Reason magazine, testified before Congress, author of numerous books, member of the Society of Environmental Journalists and the American Society for Bioethics and Humanities, 2k [ Ronald, “Earth Day, Then and Now The planet's future has never looked better. Here's why.”, http://reason.com/archives/2000/05/01/earth-day-then-and-now/4]

"I'm scared," confessed Paul [...] present--never looked so bleak.


Disease spread won’t cause extinction
Peters and Chrystal in ‘3 (Dr. Clarence, Director of Biodefense and Emerging Infectious Diseases @ UT, and Dr. Ronald, Chairman of Genetics Medicine @ Cornell, FDCH Political Transcripts, “U.S. REPRESENTATIVE CHRISTOPHER COX (R-CA) HOLDS HEARING ON COUNTERING THE BIOTERRORISM THREAT”, 3-15, L/N)

PETERS: I think we have [...] to our society would be enormous.


And, the risk is decreasing, not increasing – their killer plagues are unlikely and easily solved
Washington Post in ‘97 (John Schwartz, “Battling an Outbreak Of Hype”, 1-19, L/N)

Regis delights in deflating the scaremongers [...] to bring us 'the coming plague'."


Virulence reduction solves – humans will outgrow disease
National Geographic in ‘04 (“Our Friend, The Plague: Can Germs Keep Us Healthy?” September 8, http://www.promedpersonnel.com/whatsnew.asp?intCategoryID=73&intArticleID=443)

Whenever a new disease appears somewhere [...] just a touch of the plague.


Virus burnout solves the impact
The Guardian in ‘03 (“Second Sight”, September 25, http://technology.guardian.co.uk/online/story/0,3605,1048929,00.html)

The parallel with the natural world [...] pool of infected people doesn't grow.


Quarantines solve
Altman, et al, 11-23-05 (Lawrence, reporter for The New York Times, Jeff Bailey, reporter for the New York Times in Chicago, "CDC Proposes New RUles in Effort to Prevent Disease Outbreak", section A; column 1, National Desk, p. 22 http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?sec=health&res=9802E7DF1631F930A15752C1A9639C8B63)

Federal officials yesterday proposed the first [...] strains that could cause a pandemic.


Travel restrictions solve
Camitz, et al in ‘06 (Martin, Swedish Institute for Infectious Disease Control, Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Department of Sociology @ Stockholm University, Theoretical Biological Physics @ the Department of Physics @ Royal Institute of Technology, Fredrik Liljeros, The Department of Sociology at Stockholm University, “The effect of travel restrictions on the spread of a moderately contagious disease”, December 14, 2006 BMC Medicine, v. 4, p. 32, http://www.pubmedcentral.nih.gov/articlerender.fcgi?artid=1764026)

Much research in epidemiology has been [...] different rates of intermunicipality transmission intensities.

=Environmental Monitoring Neg= 
==Case Answers== 
===Glenbrook South HJ Neg - Greenhill=== 
====Disaster Response Answers==== 
Human adaptation prevents extinction.
Malcolm Gladwell, The New Republic, July 17 and 24, 1995, excerpted in Epidemics: Opposing Viewpoints, 1999, p. 29

In Plagues and Peoples, which [...] whose immune systems are still naïve.


Multiple alternate causalities to disease.
Jennifer Brower, science/technology policy analyst, and Peter Chalk, political scientist, Summer 2003, Rand Review, Vol. 27, No. 2, “Vectors Without Borders,” http://www.rand.org/publications/randreview/issues/summer2003/vectors.html

This year's outbreak of severe acute [...] into contact with potentially fatal diseases.


War increases infectious diseases.
David P. Fidler, Assoc. Prof. of Law, Indiana Univ. School of Law, Minnesota Law Review, April, 1997, 81 Minn. L. Rev. 771, p. 800-1

Historically, war has been conducive [...] into a global public health emergency.


Disease spread won’t cause extinction
Peters and Chrystal in ‘3
(Dr. Clarence, Director of Biodefense and Emerging Infectious Diseases @ UT, and Dr. Ronald, Chairman of Genetics Medicine @ Cornell, FDCH Political Transcripts, “U.S. REPRESENTATIVE CHRISTOPHER COX (R-CA) HOLDS HEARING ON COUNTERING THE BIOTERRORISM THREAT”, 3-15, L/N)

PETERS: I think we have [...] to our society would be enormous.


And, the risk is decreasing, not increasing – there killer plagues are unlikely and easily solved
Washington Post in ‘97 (John Schwartz, “Battling an Outbreak Of Hype”, 1-19, L/N)

Regis delights in deflating the scaremongers [...] to bring us 'the coming plague'."


Err negative – a virus has never actually killed off any species
Regis in ‘97 (Ed, Author of “Virus Ground Zero”, New York Times, “Pathogens of Glory”, 5-18, l/N)

Despite such horrific effects, Dr [...] Ebola that people find "scary"!


Increased launches collapse ozone
Ross and Zittell 2k – Both PhDs in relevant fields Martin Ross, PhD from UCLA in Earth and Planetary Sciences, and Paul Zittel, PhD in Physical Chemistory, 6-2000, “Rockets and the Ozone Layer,” AeroSpace, http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html

Rocket emissions have two distinct effects [...] the stratosphere by natural atmospheric circulation.


Extinction
Thomas 6 William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm

A Canadian atmospheric scientist warns that [...] shielding—but the stratosphere itself.

====No War Answers==== 
War can happen
Ferguson 2008 - sr. fellow @ the Hoover Institute and professor of History @ Harvard (Niall, Hoover Digest no1 47-53 Wint 2008)

The risk of a major geopolitical [...] trumped economics. It often does.


Deterrence doesn’t check.
Krieger 2009 – professor of politics (David, September 4th, “Still loving the Bomb After All these Years” Nuclear Age Peace Foundation https://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/09/04_krieger_newsweek_response.php?krieger)

Tepperman builds upon Waltz’s logic, [...] more rational than Mr. Tepperman?


Nuclear war causes extinction
SGR 2003 - Scientists for Global Responsibility (Newsletter, “Does anybody remember the Nuclear Winter?” July 27, http://www.sgr.org.uk/climate/NuclearWinter_NL27.htm)

Obviously, when a nuclear bomb [...] areas there would be major problems.


====Warming Answers==== 
Satellites can’t solve climate data.
Wigbels et. al, 8 – (July 2008, Lyn Wigbels, senior associate of Technology and Public Policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, G. Ryan Faith, CSIS Human Space Exploration Initiative, Vincent Sabathier, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, Center for Strategic Studies, “Earth Observations and Global Change,” Sawyer)

However, U.S. [...] planning needs of national security decisionmakers.


Alt causes to climate leadership --
a. Alternative energy policy
Politico, 11 (6/22/11, Politico, “Gore Voices Left’s Climate Grumbling,” http://www.seattlepi.com/national/politico/article/Gore-voices-left-s-climate-grumbling-1435262.php, Sawyer)

Betsy Taylor, a philanthropic adviser [...] again in the Gulf of Mexico.


b. EPA regulations
Politico, 11 (6/22/11, Politico, “Gore Voices Left’s Climate Grumbling,” http://www.seattlepi.com/national/politico/article/Gore-voices-left-s-climate-grumbling-1435262.php, Sawyer)

Greens have been tormented with Obama's [...] limit EPA's authority," he wrote.


c. Solar panels
Politico, 11 (6/22/11, Politico, “Gore Voices Left’s Climate Grumbling,” http://www.seattlepi.com/national/politico/article/Gore-voices-left-s-climate-grumbling-1435262.php, Sawyer)

Even the administration's failure to meet [...] done when they said it would.


d. wikileaks
Newman in 11 – (January 24, 2011. “ WikiLeaks Exposes: U.S. & EU Climate Bullying, Bribery & Espionage ” The New American. Vol. 27, Iss. 2; pg. 25, 4 pgs. Proquest.)

A series of secret U. [...] the controversial 'Copenhagen accord.'"


US influence irrelevant.
Falkner in 5 – (November 15, 2005. “American Hegemony and the Global Environment” International Studies Review. Volume 7, Issue 4. JSTOR.)

Throughout the history of international environmental [...] policy over time and across issue areas


Tech restrictions blocks development
Glackin, 2k – senior staff member at The Aerospace Corporation, private consultant in remote sensing techniques and commercialization (December 2000, David L., American Institute of Physics, “Space-Based Earth Sensing,” The Industrial Physicist, pgs. 22-25, http://www.aip.org/tip/INPHFA/vol-6/iss-6/p22.pdf, Sawyer)

The final difficulty is the tightening [...] from U.S. firm.


Their internal link relies on subsequent policy action – Obama won’t do it.
Cappiello ’11 Dina Cappiello is an award-winning environmental journalist who follows the story looking for specific, factual information about environmental problems that communities need in order to push for change. “Gore: On Global Warming, Obama Has Changed Little” 6/22 http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory?id=13900390

The Democrats' leading environmental messenger, [...] into an Oscar-winning documentary.


International cooperation impossible – political differences
Sussman, 04 (October 2004, G., International Politicla Science Review, “The USA and Global Environmental Policy: Domestic Constraints on Effective Leadership,” http://ips.sagepub.com/content/25/4/349.accessible-long, asb)

Explanations about international affairs generally and [...] ., 2000: 13-14).


Satellite data backfires -- proves warming isn’t real.
a. Human readings are ineffective
Taylor 1 (James, “Polar Ice Cap Studies Refute Catastrophic Global Warming Theories”, December 16)

Surface temperature readings taken by humans [...] general warming of the Earth's surface.


b. correlation between warming and seal-level rise
Morner 7 [June 22, Dr. Nils-Axel Mörner, “Sea-Level Expert: It’s not Rising”, http://www.ourcivilisation.com/aginatur/sealevel.htm, Has studied sea level and its effects on coastal areas for some 35 years. Recently retired as director of the Paleogeophysics and Geodynamics Department at Stockholm University, Mörner is past president (1999-2003) of the INQUA Commission on Sea Level Changes and Coastal Evolution, and leader of the Maldives Sea Level Project]

There's another way of checking it [...] but it's not the first thing.


Each new space launch drastically increases the risk of space debris
Australian Space Academy 7 “Briefing on Space Law,” ASA, http://www.spaceacademy.net.au/spacelaw/spacelaw.htm

Since the start of the space [...] pose collision hazards to active spacecraft.


Turns Case
Sénéchal 7 – PhD from Columbia Thierry Sénéchal, PhD from Columbia University, 2007, “Space Debris Pollution: A Convention Proposal,” Protocol for a Space Debris Risk and Liability Convention, http://www.pon.org/downloads/ien16.2.Senechal.pdf

The time is right for addressing [...] also poison relations between major powers.


1. Warming is a hoax
BELL 1-5-2011 (Larry, Prof at U of Houston, Forbes, http://www.forbes.com/2011/01/03/climate-change-hoax-opinions-contributors-larry-bell.html)

I've encountered some folks who appear [...] spokespeople recorded in candid public admissions.


2. Warming is natural
BELL11-3-2010 (Larry, Prof at U Houston, http://www.forbes.com/2010/11/02/global-warming-climate-change-al-gore-opinions-columnists-larry-bell.html)

Yes, there is no doubt [...] frigid retreat from Russia (1812).


Too late to stop warming
CLICK GREEN 1-7-2011 (““Unstoppable effects” of climate change will last for 1,000 years,” http://www.clickgreen.org.uk/opinion/opinion/121749-%E2%80%9Cunstoppable-effects%E2%80%9D-of-climate-change-will-last-for-1,000-years.html)

New research indicates the impact of [...] beginning in 2010 and in 2100.


4. CO2 not key to warming – cooling through photosynthesis
Philip Haddad June 22, 2011 PhD Chem. E. retd. Carbon Dioxide does not Cause Global Warming!http://www.alvinsun.net/articles/2011/06/22/opinion/editorials/doc4e0228a53ed3d528547342.txt

There is a mistaken notion that [...] carbon dioxide provides cooling through photosynthesis.


5. No solvency – international fragmentation and opposition
Moore, ’98 senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and the author of Climate of Fear published by the Cato Institute, writer for Heartland Institute (Thomas Gale Moore, CATO Institute, 25 March 1998, “Climate of Fear,” Print)

Moreover, if steps are taken [...] than warding off possible climate change.


No extinction
Easterbrook, senior fellow at the New Republic, 03 [“We're All Gonna Die!”, http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/11.07/doomsday.html?pg=1&topic=&topic_set=]

If we're talking about doomsday - [...] Things Past while lying in bed.


The fact that we are alive now is sufficient to prove that their evidence is just alarmism --- ZERO risk of cascading environmental collapse --- wealth and tech solve
Bailey, award-winning science correspondent for Reason magazine, testified before Congress, author of numerous books, member of the Society of Environmental Journalists and the American Society for Bioethics and Humanities, 2k [ Ronald, “Earth Day, Then and Now
The planet's future has never looked better. Here's why.”, http://reason.com/archives/2000/05/01/earth-day-then-and-now/4]

"I'm scared," confessed Paul [...] present--never looked so bleak.


No warming, no impact; all lies
LEHR 2005 (Jay, Science Director of the Heartland Institute, 1-12-2005, Yearbook of Experts)

EVIDENCE THAT THE TEMPERATURE OF THE [...] real science did not support it.


Mass extinctions will not include humanity—we can isolate ourselves from collapsing environments
POWERS 2002 (Lawrence, Professor of Natural Sciences, Oregon Institute of Technology, The Chronicle of Higher Education, August 9)

Mass extinctions appear to result from [...] vanish before our distant descendants' eyes.


Ozone depletion inevitable
TIMES EDUCATIONAL SUPPLEMENT 1-16-2004

Without this protection, there would [...] the atmosphere for a long time.


Lewis’s recommendations go beyond increasing environmental monitoring – data sharing with other countries and private companies, creating a single agency known as the national climate service to manage information, and expanding multilateral climate efforts such as the GCOS
Lewis et al 2010, James A, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program at the CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program at the CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer at Salary Data [“Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]

Recommendations Climate change will have pervasive [...] of the cost at this time.

===Westminster WX Neg - St. Marks=== 
====Conflicts Answeres==== 
Indo-Pak war won’t go nuclear – they will stay conventional
Chari 03– P.R. Chari is a Research Professor. "IPCS Nuclear Crisis, Escalation Control, and Deterrence in South Asia” P.R. Chari Working Paper Version 1.0 August 2003 http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/escalation_chari_1.pdf

However, the involvement of nuclear [...] the irrationality of the “Other.”


Empirically, water doesn’t cause war
Lawfield 10 – Thomas Lawfield is an MA candidate at the University for Peace. Water Security: War or Peace? Thomas Lawfield May 03, 2010 http://www.monitor.upeace.org/innerpg.cfm?id_article=715

In reality, water does not [...] solutions to water scarcity.[27]


Won’t go to war over food
Chang 2/21/11 Gordon G Chang, Graduated Cornell Law School “Global Food Wars” http://blogs.forbes.com/gordonchang/2011/02/21/global-food-wars/

In any event, food- [...] and the efficiency of free markets.


Supply and demand means farmers will make more food – empirically true
Zubrin 5/13/11 — Dr. Robert Zubrin Fellow with the Center for Security Policy B.A. in Mathematics from the University of Rochester (1974), and a masters degree in Aeronautics and Astronautics, a masters degree in Nuclear Engineering, and a Ph.D. in Nuclear Engineering “WHY IT’S WRONG TO AGREE WITH THE MALTHUSIANS ABOUT ETHANOL” http://www.ilcorn.org/daily-update/182-why-it-rsquo-s-wrong-to-agree-with-the-malthusians-about-ethanol/

In fact, Lester Brown is [...] 1960 (40 bushels per acre.)


No solvency – scientists can’t interpret satellite data
Psychology Press, 01 (No date, The environment encyclopedia and directory 2001, “Antarctic Ozone Hole” Vol. 3, google books, asb)

The international scientific community was skeptical [...] is fundamentally responsible for the hold’.


ITAR blocks image sharing and cooperation
Wigbels et. al, 8 – (July 2008, Lyn Wigbels, senior associate of Technology and Public Policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, G. Ryan Faith, CSIS Human Space Exploration Initiative, Vincent Sabathier, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, Center for Strategic Studies, “Earth Observations and Global Change,” Sawyer)

Export control regulations are a fundamental [...] ability to produce such technologies altogether.


Agency disputes derails solvency
Wigbels et. al, 8 – (July 2008, Lyn Wigbels, senior associate of Technology and Public Policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, G. Ryan Faith, CSIS Human Space Exploration Initiative, Vincent Sabathier, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, Center for Strategic Studies, “Earth Observations and Global Change,” Sawyer)

Though these efforts are a laudable [...] national budget sufficient to implement it.


Can’t solve – no launch vehicles
Wigbels et. al, 8 – (July 2008, Lyn Wigbels, senior associate of Technology and Public Policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, G. Ryan Faith, CSIS Human Space Exploration Initiative, Vincent Sabathier, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, Center for Strategic Studies, “Earth Observations and Global Change,” Sawyer)

Another issue that needs to be [...] available for the platforms and instruments.


Sustainability decks solvency
Wigbels et. al, 8 – (July 2008, Lyn Wigbels, senior associate of Technology and Public Policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, G. Ryan Faith, CSIS Human Space Exploration Initiative, Vincent Sabathier, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, Center for Strategic Studies, “Earth Observations and Global Change,” Sawyer)

The majority of today’s Earth observation [...] of Earth processes over many years.


Climate science now – other satellites
Wigbels et. al, 8 – (July 2008, Lyn Wigbels, senior associate of Technology and Public Policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, G. Ryan Faith, CSIS Human Space Exploration Initiative, Vincent Sabathier, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, Center for Strategic Studies, “Earth Observations and Global Change,” Sawyer)

There are currently no U. [...] acquisition and continuity in this area.


Satellites read the data wrong
Markowitz, 2 – President of EarthPace LLC. Director of Law and Technology Program, Center for International Environmental Law (Spring 2002, Kenneth J., Duke Environmental Law and Policy Forum, “Legal Challenges and Market Rewards to the use and Acceptance of Remote Sensing and Digital Information as Evidence,” Vol. 12, Issue 219, http://www.epa.gov/esd/gqc/pdf/evidence.pdf, Sawyer)

Section I revealed the potential satellite [...] that detail collection and calibration procedures.


no spratly conflict
Bitzinger and Desker 8 Richard and Barry, PhD from UCLA and Senior Fellow @ International Studies Perspectives, Dean of the S Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Why East Asian War is Unlikely, Survival, Volume 50, Issue 6 December 2008 , pages 105 – 128

Nowhere, perhaps, is this [...] between China and Southeast Asia.21


Arctic conflict impossible—weather and geography
New Scientist 02 (3/2/02, New Scientist, “Arctic melting will open new sea passages” by Debora MacKenzie http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn1978-arctic-melting-will-open-new-sea-passages.html)

The Arctic ice cap is [...] summer daylight makes covert operations harder.

====Warming Answers==== 
1. Satellites can’t solve climate data.
Wigbels et. al, 8 – (July 2008, Lyn Wigbels, senior associate of Technology and Public Policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, G. Ryan Faith, CSIS Human Space Exploration Initiative, Vincent Sabathier, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, Center for Strategic Studies, “Earth Observations and Global Change,” Sawyer)

However, U.S. [...] planning needs of national security decisionmakers.

2. Our climate leadership is permanently tanked:
a. Alternative energy policy
Politico, 11 (6/22/11, Politico, “Gore Voices Left’s Climate Grumbling,” http://www.seattlepi.com/national/politico/article/Gore-voices-left-s-climate-grumbling-1435262.php, Sawyer)

Betsy Taylor, a philanthropic adviser [...] again in the Gulf of Mexico.


b. EPA regulations
Politico, 11 (6/22/11, Politico, “Gore Voices Left’s Climate Grumbling,” http://www.seattlepi.com/national/politico/article/Gore-voices-left-s-climate-grumbling-1435262.php, Sawyer)

Greens have been tormented with Obama's [...] limit EPA's authority," he wrote.


3. US influence irrelevant.
Falkner in 5 – (November 15, 2005. “American Hegemony and the Global Environment” International Studies Review. Volume 7, Issue 4. JSTOR.)

Throughout the history of international environmental [...] policy over time and across issue areas


4. International cooperation impossible – political differences
Sussman, 04 (October 2004, G., International Politicla Science Review, “The USA and Global Environmental Policy: Domestic Constraints on Effective Leadership,” http://ips.sagepub.com/content/25/4/349.accessible-long, asb)

Explanations about international affairs generally and [...] ., 2000: 13-14).


5. Their internal link relies on subsequent policy action – Obama won’t do it.
Cappiello ’11 Dina Cappiello is an award-winning environmental journalist who follows the story looking for specific, factual information about environmental problems that communities need in order to push for change. “Gore: On Global Warming, Obama Has Changed Little” 6/22
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory?id=13900390

The Democrats' leading environmental messenger, [...] into an Oscar-winning documentary.


6. Satellite data backfires -- proves warming isn’t real. Human readings are ineffective
Taylor 1 (James, “Polar Ice Cap Studies Refute Catastrophic Global Warming Theories”, December 16)

Surface temperature readings taken by humans [...] general warming of the Earth's surface.


7. Even if they win satellites are 100% effective, plan isn’t enough
Lewis-your author- et al 2010, James A, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program at the CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program at the CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer at Salary Data [“Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]

Recommendations Climate change will have pervasive [...] of the cost at this time.


1. Warming is natural
BELL11-3-2010 (Larry, Prof at U Houston, http://www.forbes.com/2010/11/02/global-warming-climate-change-al-gore-opinions-columnists-larry-bell.html)

Yes, there is no doubt [...] frigid retreat from Russia (1812).


2. Too late to stop warming
CLICK GREEN 1-7-2011 (““Unstoppable effects” of climate change will last for 1,000 years,” http://www.clickgreen.org.uk/opinion/opinion/121749-%E2%80%9Cunstoppable-effects%E2%80%9D-of-climate-change-will-last-for-1,000-years.html)

New research indicates the impact of [...] beginning in 2010 and in 2100.


3. CO2 not key to warming – cooling through photosynthesis
Philip Haddad June 22, 2011 PhD Chem. E. retd. Carbon Dioxide does not Cause Global Warming!http://www.alvinsun.net/articles/2011/06/22/opinion/editorials/doc4e0228a53ed3d528547342.txt

There is a mistaken notion that [...] carbon dioxide provides cooling through photosynthesis.


4. It’s the sun’s fault – better data
S. Fred Singer et al., Distinguished Research Professor, George Mason University, NATURE, NOT HUMAN ACTIVITY RULES THE CLIMATE, Heartland Institute, Science and Environmental Policy Project, 2008, http://www.heartland.org/pdf/22835.pdf, accessed 4-27-08.

! The role of solar influences [...] 20th Century warming than GH effects.


5. Mass extinctions will not include humanity—we can isolate ourselves from collapsing environments
POWERS 2002 (Lawrence, Professor of Natural Sciences, Oregon Institute of Technology, The Chronicle of Higher Education, August 9)

Mass extinctions appear to result from [...] vanish before our distant descendants' eyes.


6. The fact that we are alive now is sufficient to prove that their evidence is just alarmism --- ZERO risk of cascading environmental collapse --- wealth and tech solve
Bailey, award-winning science correspondent for Reason magazine, testified before Congress, author of numerous books, member of the Society of Environmental Journalists and the American Society for Bioethics and Humanities, 2k [ Ronald, “Earth Day, Then and Now
The planet's future has never looked better. Here's why.”, http://reason.com/archives/2000/05/01/earth-day-then-and-now/4]

"I'm scared," confessed Paul [...] present--never looked so bleak.


=ISS Neg=
==Case Answers==
===IC West DH Neg - Emory===
====Biotech Answers====
FIRST, You don’t solve – don’t mandate testing, which your author says is necessary
Stephen M. Maurer, 1AC Author, 2007, “Lifeboat Foundation Bioshield”, http://lifeboat.com/ex/bio.shield, umn-rks

Because it would be suicidal for  [...] air in cities would be useful. 
 

SECOND, Their impact evidence is unqualified – the part they underline that says “a pandemic will kill all humans” is just written by a random college student, and their author also doesn’t have a degree
Victoria Yu, 1AC Author, Dartmouth Undergraduate Class of 2012, Spring 2009, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate”, http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate, umn-rks

If this is true, could  [...] a pandemic-facilitated human extinction.


THIRD, No impact – burnout
Joshua Lederberg, professor of genetics at Stanford University School of Medicine, 99, Epidemic The World of Infectious Disease, p. 13

The toll of the fourteenth- [...] of large-scale ecological upsets.


FOURTH, humans will adapt – means no impact
Malcolm Gladwell, The New Republic, July 17 and 24, 1995, excerpted in Epidemics: Opposing Viewpoints, 1999, p. 29

In Plagues and Peoples, which  [...] whose immune systems are still naïve.


====Biotech Advantage CP====
The USFG should
- award prize money for the development of rapid detection and identification technology, antiviral surface coatings, sequencing technologies, and software-based treatment design


Solves bioweapons – your author
Stephen M. Maurer, 1AC Author, 2007, “Lifeboat Foundation Bioshield”, http://lifeboat.com/ex/bio.shield, umn-rks

One technology to develop is RNAi [...] bioengineered, malicious pathogens are developed.


====Science Diplomacy Answers====

FIRST, US will remain the leader of science diplomacy – your author
Vaughan Turekian, Director, Center for Science Diplomacy, 1AC Author, 2/4/10, “Opening Night”, http://uscpublicdiplomacy.org/media/Science%20Diplomacy%20Proceedings.pdf, umn-rks

Dr. Vaughan Turekian began his  [...] the nexus of access and influence.


SECOND, extinction’s not inevitable – humanity is resilient
Tonn 2005 (Bruce, Futures Studies Department, Corvinus University of Budapest, “Human Extinction
Scenarios,” www.budapestfutures.org/downloads/abstracts/Bruce%20Tonn%20-%20Abstract.pdf)

The human species faces numerous threats  [...] extinction with respect to single events.


THIRD, you cut your evidence mid paragraph – here’s the rest of it – countries are cooperating on science diplomacy now
Penny Sackett, 1AC Author, 8/10/10, “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions,” http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/, umn-rks

Many countries have recognised the value  [...] funding frameworks to sustain these links.


FOURTH, the warrant for why science diplomacy solves war is that various resource shortages are coming, but their impact isn’t true

a. no resource wars
Deudney, 1999 (Daniel, Asst Prof of Poli Sci at Johns Hopkins, Contested Grounds: Security and Conflict in the New Environmental Politics )

Another major limitation of most studies  [...] (see figure 8.1).


b. no water wars
Lawfield 10 – Thomas Lawfield is an MA candidate at the University for Peace. Water Security: War or Peace? Thomas Lawfield May 03, 2010 http://www.monitor.upeace.org/innerpg.cfm?id_article=715

In reality, water does not  [...] solutions to water scarcity.[27]


c. No war over food
Chang 2/21/11 Gordon G Chang, Graduated Cornell Law School “Global Food Wars” http://blogs.forbes.com/gordonchang/2011/02/21/global-food-wars/ 

In any event, food- [...] and the efficiency of free markets. 


FIFTH, they don’t solve for ocean acidification or “nuclear escalation” – their Royal Society internal link evidence is awful – it just mentions each of them, it never actually makes an argument that science diplomacy can do anything about them

SIXTH, no impact to ocean acidification
Ridley 10 [Matt Ridley was educated at Eton College from 1970-1975 and then went on to Magdalen College of the University of Oxford and completed a Bachelor of Arts with first class honours in zoology and then a Doctor of Philosophy in zoology in 1983. “Threat From Ocean Acidification Greatly Exaggerated”, June 15th, 2010, http://www.thegwpf.org/the-observatory/1106-matt-ridley-threat-from-ocean-acidification-greatly-exaggerated.html, Chetan] 

Lest my critics still accuse me  [...] … are being heavily impacted already’. 


SEVENTH, your impact evidence concedes acidification levels aren’t high enough to cause extinction
Randy Boswell, 1AC Author, 9/9/11, “Mass extinction due to high ocean acidity: Study”, http://www.vancouversun.com/business/technology/Mass+extinction+high+ocean+acidity+study/5377124/story.html?id=5377124, umn-rks

And the Nova Scotia researcher told  [...] to the effects of climate change.


EIGHTH, you cut your evidence mid paragraph – the next line says talks are progressing already
Micah Lowenthal, Senior Program Officer Nuclear and Radiation Studies Board National Research Council of the National Academies, 1AC Author, 2011, “Science Diplomacy for Nuclear Security”, http://www.usip.org/files/resources/SR_288.pdf, umn-rks

U.S. president Ronald  [...] coming out of the Lisbon summit.


NINTH, science leadership is irrelevant – their evidence mistakes correlations of cooperation with a causality  
Dickson,’09 [David, Direction Science & Development Network. June 2, 2009, “Science diplomacy: the case for caution”, http://scidevnet.wordpress.com/category/new- frontiers-in-science-diplomacy-2009, SM]

One of the frustrations of meetings  [...] world – were also clearly exposed.



====Science Diplomacy/Missile Defense Advantage CP====
The USFG should

- offer and fully fund a joint missile defense system with Russia

It solves – their evidence doesn’t have a warrant as to why science diplomacy is uniquely key, we can cooperate now over missile defense
RBTH 10/31/11 (“ Missile defense, asteroids and deadlock ” http://rbth.ru/articles/2011/10/31/missile_defense_asteroids_and_deadlock_13684.html)

Russian Ambassador to NATO Dmitry Rogozin  [...] systems capable of carrying nuclear weapons. 



=Operationally Responsive Space Neg= 
==ORS Spec== 
Interpretation: the plan text must define what ORS is.
Violation: they don’t.

This is best:
a) The term ‘ORS’ is vague – it is impossible to make a coherent 1NC
roll back, and makes it impossible to tell if they are topical
Larrimore, 7 – Lt Col, USAF (April, Scott C., Air Force Fellows Air University, “Operationally Responsive Space: A New Paradigm or Another False Start?” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_5ea32116-b119-43ab-8fcb-9565110bb741/display.aspx?rs=enginespage)RK

A sampling of these writings reveals [...] phenomenon 3. Enhancing space situational awareness6


b) Defining ORS is a prerequisite to their solvency debate – they can’t solve, vote neg on presumption
GAO 2k8 – US Government Accountability Office (US Government Accountability Office, “Defense Space Activities: DOD Needs to Further Clarify the Operationally Responsive Space Concept and Plan to Integrate and Support Future Satellites,” 7/14/2k8, http://www.gao.gov/htext/d08831.html /mr)

DOD is making some progress in [...] meet warfighter needs may be hampered.



==Case Answers== 
===Stratford JS Neg - Greenhill RR=== 
====Development Answers==== 
Space contracting can’t save the industrial base
Sterner, 10 – fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute. He was a senior professional staff member on the House Armed Services and Science Committees and served in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and as NASA's associate deputy administrator of policy and planning (Eric, World Politics Review, “Tending the Forge of American Space Power,” 6/15, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/5793/tending-the-forge-of-american-space-power)

The industry also faces difficulties in [...] development of corporate knowledge and expertise.


ORS doesn’t have a function – empirically launch rates are low, and it wouldn’t solve any barriers to higher flight rates
Foust, 3 – editor and publisher of The Space Review (10/13/03, Jeff, The Space Review, “Operationally Responsive Spacelift: A solution seeking a problem?” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/52/1)RK

Who needs it? There’s [...] access to space for small payloads.


Commercial space tourism solves
Ashworth, 8 - Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society (Stephen, The Space Review, “In defense of the knights”, 6/23, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1153/1)

In fact, rather than wait [...] It’s only a matter of time.

No resource wars
Salehyan 7 assistant professor of political science at the University of North Texas [Idean Salehyan, “The New Myth About Climate Change”, Foreign Policy, August 2007, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=3922]

First, aside from a few [...] conflict than resource scarcity and natural disasters

====Deterrence Answers==== 
ASAT attacks are too difficult to pull off – the scale of the challenge makes it impossible to hit enough satellites, and redundancy means the US won’t lose critical systems
Forden, 8 - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)

However, China could not launch [...] tremendous redundancy of its space assets.


No China threat – domestic issues will keep them out of military confrontation with the US
MacDonald, 5/11 – US Institute of Peace (11, Bruee W., Testimony before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission on The Implications of China’s Military and Civil Space Programs, pdf)

In the face of this growing [...] want, through miscalculation or distraction.


Nuclear primacy fails
Starr and Yarynich '07
(Valery Yarynich, retired Colonel and served at the Center for Operational and Strategic Studies of the Russian General Staff, Steven Starr, US nuclear weapons expert, "'Nuclear Primacy' is a Fallacy", 4/4/07, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=4991// ASpomer)

We believe such reactions can lead [...] definitive definition of “Nuclear Primacy”.


The US won’t preemptively attack, and even if we did, we’d quickly win the war before escalation
Bin 1 – associate professor and director of the Arms Control Program at the Institute of International Studies, Tsinghua University (March 2001, Li, "The Effects of NMD on Chinese Strategy”, Jane’s Intelligence Review, Vol. 13, No. 3, pg. 49-52, http://irchina.org/en/xueren/china/view.asp?id=703) MGM

Chinese nuclear development may be divided [...] attack from the U.S.


Deterrence by denial fails – adversaries will attack even if success chances are small because the pay-off is large
Morgan, 10 – Adjunct Professor of Security Policy Studies @ University of Pittsburgh, Senior Political Scientist @ RAND Corporation, PhD, Policy Studies @ University of Maryland, M.A., Air Power Arts & Sciences @ Air University School for Advanced Airpower Studies, M.A. @ Webster University, B.S. @ University of Maryland (Forrest, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

Efforts to deter would-be [...] satellites with such capabili¬ties.


ORS allows the U.S. to develop a PGS system
Doggrell 6—US Air Force General, [Les Doggrell, “Operationally responsive space: a vision for the future of military space” 6/22/2006, http://www.freepatentsonline.com/article/Air-Space-Power-Journal/154818021.html]

Development of responsive space may in [...] way we perform traditional space missions.


PGS causes ballistic missile prolif among great powers and Taiwan conflict
Davis and Dodd 6 (Ian and Robin, independent human security and arms control consultants, [http://www.basicint.org/pubs/Papers/BP51.pdf]

The PGS capability also raises serious [...] logic”, he said.24 4


Missile prolif causes miscalc that creates escalatory nuclear war – even if they win impact defense PGS uniquely triggers the impact
Stokes and Blumenthal 11 (Mark Stokes, executive director of Project 2049 Institute, served in the U.S. Air Force for 20 years. Dan Blumenthal is director of Asian studies at the American Enterprise Institute, “Why China’s missiles should be our focus,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/31/AR2010123102687.html, dml)

By building a missile force second [...] risk of a Chinese nuclear response.


Their evidence is wrong and outdated – US leadership is inevitable and growing relative power will only strengthen the international liberal order to ensure lasting peace.
Ikenberry, 11 – (May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/
articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show DH)

Pronouncements of American decline miss the [...] . But it can still lead.


Alt cause - Enemies can block US satellite communications even without attacking space assets
Ghoshroy 04, Research Associate at MIT [Subrata Ghoshroy. “Ensuring America’s Space Security: Report of the FAS Panel on Weapons in Space.” The Federation of American Scientists. September 2004. http://www.fas.org/pubs/_pages/space_report.html. Accessed June 22, 2011.]

The U.S. military [...] the viability of such a threat.


Tactical missions for ORS are impossible
Larrimore, 7 – Lt Col, USAF (April, Scott C., Air Force Fellows Air University, “Operationally Responsive Space: A New Paradigm or Another False Start?” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_5ea32116-b119-43ab-8fcb-9565110bb741/display.aspx?rs=enginespage)RK

Due to orbital mechanics and laws [...] be launched on a responsive timescale.


Hardening is impossible – space assets are inherently vulnerable – we should reduce military reliance on satellites
Denmark 2010 - Fellow with the Center for a New American Security [By Abraham M. and Dr. James Mulvenon CNAS, Jan, Contested Commons: The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS%20Contested %20Commons%20Capstone_0.pdf Accessed Jun 21]

However, replenishment and hardening is [...] extended flight times offer significant promise.


Hardening and maneuver capabilities fail
Krepon et al, 11 – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space
Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)

The vulnerability of terrestrial space assets [...] limited attacks can cause grievous injury.


Nuclear detonations in space will prevent reconstitution
Krepon, 3 – president of the Henry Stimson Center (Michael, Space Assurance or Space Dominance? THE CASE AGAINST WEAPONIZING SPACE, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf)

Much lower yield nuclear detonations in [...] high as $100 billion.16


Current SSA solves – plan’s not key
Krepon et al, 11 – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space
Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)

Space situational awareness (SSA)— [...] rules of the road in space.

=Property Rights Neg= 
==Case Answers== 
===Barstow LW Neg - Caucus=== 
====Economy Answers==== 
FIRST, No offense – econ decline won’t cause war
Daniel Deudney, Hewlett Fellow in Science, Technology, and Society at the Center for Energy and Environmental Studies at Princeton, April 1991, “Environment and Security: Muddled Thinking”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, p. 27, google books, umn-rks

Poverty Wars. In a second [...] specialized industrial products and surplus wealth.


AND, history proves [decline won’t cause war]
Ferguson 2006 (Niall, MA, D.Phil., is the Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University. He is a resident faculty member of the Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies. He is also a Senior Reseach Fellow of Jesus College, Oxford University, and a Senior Fellow of the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, Foreign Affairs, Sept/Oct)

Nor can economic crises explain the [...] crises were not followed by wars.


SECOND, Collapse is inevitable – history proves
Debora MacKenzie, writer, 4/5/08, “Are we doomed?”, New Scientist, Academic Search Premier, umn-rks

DOOMSDAY. The end of civilisation [...] stop destroying our environmental support systems.


THIRD, collapse now is key to prevent environment collapse and extinction
Glen Barry, Ph.D. in "Land Resources" from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Masters of Science in "Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development", 1/14/08, “Economic Collapse And Global Ecology”, Counter Currents, http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm, umn-rks

Humanity and the Earth are faced [...] is more fragile than it looks.


FOURTH, growth causes war
Ted Trainer, lecturer in Sociology at the University of New South Wales, 1998, "Our Unsustainable Society: Basic Causes, Interconnections, and Solutions”, The Coming Age of Scarcity: Preventing Mass Death and Genocide in the Twenty-first Century, edited by Michael N. Dobkowski and Isidor Wallimann, p. 91-92, google books, umn-rks

Some of the most disturbing implications [...] is to rapid and ceaseless growth!


Growth kills the environment - Development is destroying the planet; it’s a systemic impact worse than any war in history
David Nicholson-Lord, Thomson Foundation consultant; trustee of the New Economics Foundation and the National Wildflower Centre, May 31, 1992 Independent (London)

IF THE two decades since the [...] can we stop it getting worse?


The economy won’t recover – U.S. is past the point of no return
Bonner 10 – author of books and articles on economic and financial subjects (Bill, August 27, “What Will the New Economy Look Like?”, http://www.csmonitor.com/Business/The-Daily-Reckoning/2010/0827/What-will-the-new-economy-look-like) WSX

Eventually, investors are going to [...] Stockman said it, not us.

====OST Answers==== 
Plan breaks down the OST
Gangale, 2008 [Thomas, Executive Director of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, former Air Force officer and aerospace engineer, “Castles in the Air: Debunking the Space Settlement Prize, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics,” January, http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/ASM2008_CastlesInTheAir.pdf]

What Wasser apparently does not understand [...] Article II of the Outer Space Treaty


Nonunique – Russian’s Phobos Mission will tear up the OST by the end of 2011
DiGregorio 11 (Barry E., director of the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return and author of Mars: The Living Planet (North Atlantic Books), “Don’t send bugs to Mars,” January 2011, http://io9.com/5721723/dont-send-bugs-to-mars DA; 6/24/11)

Early spacecraft had to be thoroughly [...] Outer Space Treaty then what is?


Nonunique -Atlas rocket made clear that US intends to violate the OST
Presscore 10 (“US launches a first strike military spacecraft - the X-37B,” 4/28/10, PressCore, http://presscore.ca/nbg/index.php?entry=entry100428-214754 DA: 6/22/11)

On April 22, 2010 an [...] force on October 10, 1963.


Nonunique – Chinese ASAT test violated the OST
Listner 11 (Michael, prolific writer for the Space Review, Space Policy Examiner, “India’s ABM test: a validated ASAT capability or a paper tiger?,” March 2011, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1807/1 DA: 6/24/11)

Chinese ASAT test and seeds of [...] the test and the resulting debris cloud


Nonunique - Lack of enforcement for 40 years has already weakened the OST
Harrison 11 (Roger G. Ambassador, director of the Eisenhower Center For Space And Defense Studies, Professor in Political Science at the US Air Force Academy, “ Space and Verification Vol 1 Policy Implications” March 2011, http://swfound.org/media/37101/Space%20and%20Verification%20Vol%201%20-%20Policy%20Implications.pdf DA: 6/24/11)

Characterizing space as the “last [...] OST as a matter of treaty law


ASAT attacks are too difficult to pull off – the scale of the challenge makes it impossible to hit enough satellites, and redundancy means the US won’t lose critical systems
Forden, 8 - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)

However, China could not launch [...] tremendous redundancy of its space assets.


Attempts at space weaponization are inevitable –but there’s no impact and defensive space countermeasures solve
Schendzielos 8 – USAF Major
(Kurt, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for US Satellites,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA485553&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, dml)

Lastly, one very popular argument [...] exactly the goal of this proposal.


And, perception of weaponization now—disproves your impact
Brown 2009 (Trevor Brown (BA, Indiana University; MSc, S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Nanyang Technological University [Singapore]) is an author on political, economic, and military strategy for the medium of space, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization”, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/brown.html#brown, dml)

The United States has plans to [...] reconsidering commitments on arms control.5

=Space Missile Defense Neg= 
==Case Answers== 
===Shawnee Misssion East KT Neg - St. Marks=== 
====Hegemony Answers==== 
ASAT attacks are too difficult to pull off – the scale of the challenge makes it impossible to hit enough satellites, and redundancy means the US won’t lose critical systems
Forden, 8 - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)

However, China could not launch [...] tremendous redundancy of its space assets.


No China threat – domestic issues will keep them out of military confrontation with the US
MacDonald, 5/11 – US Institute of Peace (11, Bruee W., Testimony before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission on The Implications of China’s Military and Civil Space Programs, pdf)

In the face of this growing [...] want, through miscalculation or distraction.


Deterrence by denial fails – adversaries will attack even if success chances are small because the pay-off is large
Morgan, 10 – Adjunct Professor of Security Policy Studies @ University of Pittsburgh, Senior Political Scientist @ RAND Corporation, PhD, Policy Studies @ University of Maryland, M.A., Air Power Arts & Sciences @ Air University School for Advanced Airpower Studies, M.A. @ Webster University, B.S. @ University of Maryland (Forrest, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

Efforts to deter would-be [...] satellites with such capabili¬ties.


Their evidence is wrong and outdated – US leadership is inevitable and growing relative power will only strengthen the international liberal order to ensure lasting peace.
Ikenberry, 11 – (May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/
articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show DH)

Pronouncements of American decline miss the [...] . But it can still lead.


Alt cause - Enemies can block US satellite communications even without attacking space assets
Ghoshroy 04, Research Associate at MIT [Subrata Ghoshroy. “Ensuring America’s Space Security: Report of the FAS Panel on Weapons in Space.” The Federation of American Scientists. September 2004. http://www.fas.org/pubs/_pages/space_report.html. Accessed June 22, 2011.]

The U.S. military [...] the viability of such a threat.


Economy more resilient than predicted – has taken shocks and still growing
The Business Insider 11 (Bob Eisenbeis, March 31, “This Market Is Showing Incredible Resilience In The Face Of Many Crises”, lexis) WSX

No, not shock and awe [...] can begin investing and hiring again.


Space dominance does not assure dominance on Earth
Hardesty 05 (Captain David C. Hardesty was a member of the US Navy and is an expert in Law. He is also a journalist for the Navy Law Review, “Space-Based Weapons: Long-Term Strategic Implications and Alternatives”, Naval War Coll Newport, Defense Technology Information Center, 2005, pg online @ http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA521114, sc)

Everett Dolman argues that the downsides [...] enemyshifts the terms of the engagement.


If their terrorism arguments were correct attacks would already be happening—experts, government officials, and media outlets are all wrong—dangerous terrorist networks have been destroyed
MUELLER 2006 (John, Professor of Political Science at Ohio State University, Foreign Affairs, Sep/Oct)

For the past five years, [...] But this explanation is rarely offered.


No extinction
Easterbrook, senior fellow at the New Republic, 03 [“We're All Gonna Die!”, http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/11.07/doomsday.html?pg=1&topic=&topic_set=]

If we're talking about doomsday - [...] Things Past while lying in bed.


6. Science/tech leadership high now – plus China can’t possibly threaten it
East-West Wire, 11 – analysis service provided by the East-West Center (6/20/11, “China not an Immediate Threat to U.S. Tech Leadership,” http://www.hartfordbusiness.com/news19061.html, Sawyer)

Contrary to common misperceptions, China’s [...] innovations they are designed to promote.


7. No space race – China won’t and can’t threaten US dominance
Bao, 7 – senior fellow of military theory studies and international relations at the Institute for Military Thought Studies, visiting scholar at the Virginia Military Institute (Winter 2007, Shixiu, China Security, “Deterrence Revisited: Outer Space,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/pdfs/Issue5full.pdf, Sawyer)

Despite the need for an effective [...] be a threat to other countries.


8. China has no motivation to start a war
Bremmer 10 – president of Eurasia Group and author (Ian Bremmer, “China vs. America: Fight of the Century,” Prospect, March 22, 2010, http://www.prospectmagazine.co.uk/2010/03/china-vs-america-fight-of-the-century/, ZBurdette)

China will not mount a military [...] Taiwan’s business elite privileged investment opportunities.

===Shawnee Mission East CH Neg - St. Marks=== 
====Hegemony Answers==== 
Their evidence is wrong and outdated – US leadership is inevitable and growing relative power will only strengthen the international liberal order to ensure lasting peace.
Ikenberry, 11 – (May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/
articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show DH)

Pronouncements of American decline miss the [...] . But it can still lead.


Alt cause - Enemies can block US satellite communications even without attacking space assets
Ghoshroy 04, Research Associate at MIT [Subrata Ghoshroy. “Ensuring America’s Space Security: Report of the FAS Panel on Weapons in Space.” The Federation of American Scientists. September 2004. http://www.fas.org/pubs/_pages/space_report.html. Accessed June 22, 2011.]

The U.S. military [...] the viability of such a threat.


Other ways to defend space assets- reconstitution, hardening, maneuverability, and threat reduction
Moltz 2k2 (James Clay Moltz is the Associate Professor and Academic Associate for Security Studies at the NSA, expert on: space security, nuclear proliferation and nonproliferation, Russian and Northeast Asian security, international relations theory, and U.S. national security policy, received the 2010 Richard Hamming Award for Interdisciplinary Achievement, worked previously as a staff member in the U.S. Senate, served as a consultant to the NASA Ames Research Center, the Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration, and the Department of Defense’s Office of Net Assessment, “Future Security in Space: Commercial, Military, and Arms Control Trade-Offs”, Center for Non-Proliferation Studies, Montery Institute of International Studies, Jul 2002, Print: 12-13, sc)

There are also, however [...] violators of existing norms and obligations.


Space dominance does not assure dominance on Earth
Hardesty 05 (Captain David C. Hardesty was a member of the US Navy and is an expert in Law. He is also a journalist for the Navy Law Review, “Space-Based Weapons: Long-Term Strategic Implications and Alternatives”, Naval War Coll Newport, Defense Technology Information Center, 2005, pg online @ http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA521114, sc)

Everett Dolman argues that the downsides [...] enemyshifts the terms of the engagement.


Status quo sufficient—weaponizing space crushes status quo stability and triggers a negative response
Butler 7 (Jeffrey T, a National Defense Fellow at Boston University, Massachusetts, performing research on Russia, Central Asia, and international military affairs, “The Influence of Politics, Technology, and Asia on the Future of Us Missile Defense” pg. 42) RF

Much like Russia, China’s response [...] one China” with regard to Taiwan


SBI fails – cost, vulnerability, and ability to be tricked
Grego 05 (Laura Grego, staff scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) for the Global Security Program, postdoctoral researcher at the Harvard- Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics from 1999 until 2002, March 21-22, 2005 , “WHAT SHOULD SPACE BE USED FOR? TECHNICAL GUIDELINES”, from the UNIDIR conference on nuclear disarmament) JB

The global coverage that space- [...] space-based missile defence system.


SBIs are ineffective, vulnerable to ASATs, and easy to overwhelm
Grego and Wright, 10 – *Laura, senior scientist in the Global Security Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, **David, senior scientist and co-director of the UCS Global Security Program (“Securing the Skies,” Union of Concerned Scientists, Nov. 2010, www.ucsusa.org/securingtheskies)Red

If such a large system were [...] a handful of enemy missiles.64

====EMP Answers==== 
2. EMP attack doesn’t have to come from a nuclear strike – there are multiple ways to EMP someone aside from nukes strikes, you can’t solve every instance
Colonel 11; (9/30/11; “The Danger and Consequences of an EMP attack” Coming from Colonel’s Blog, citing FoxNews, Universe Today—independent research organization AND Astro Aviator; both available at: http://astroaviator.com/2010/11/21/electromagnetic-pulse-capacitor-comparison/ and http://colonel6.com/2011/09/30/the-danger-and-consequences-of-an-emp-attack/)

Not only extreme Solar Flares / [...] , and electromagnetic shielding of targets.


3. Solar storms cause EMPs far worse than the aff ESPECIALLY in the U.S.
Act for America.org 09; “What is EMP?”; 2009 Report on EMP; www.actforamerica.org/files/EMPPresentationNotes.doc)

Geomagnetic Storms A solar storm [...] is no spare or planned replacement.


4. We don’t know the impact of an EMP – more research is required
Act for America.org 09; “What is EMP?”; 2009 Report on EMP; www.actforamerica.org/files/EMPPresentationNotes.doc)

What Can We Do A March [...] systems already are largely EMP resistant.


Weapons don’t solve jamming—status quo contingencies solve
DeBlois et al 4--- Bruce DeBlois is Director of Systems Integration at BAE Systems and former Senior Fellow of Science and Technology at CFR, Richard Garwin is IBM Fellow Emeritus at the Research Center of IBM and former Senior Fellow of Science and Technology at CFR, and Scott Kemp is a Fulbright Fellow to the European Union and research staff at the Program on Science and Global Security at Princeton University, Jeremy C. Marwell is a Furman Scholar at the New York University School of Law, Fall 2004, “Space Weapons; Crossing the U.S. Rubicon” International Security, Pg. 50

ELECTRONIC WARFARE. Neither would space [...] the space mine was in place.


An EMP is out of reach for our adversaries and is unlikely to cause lasting damage even if they have one
Farley 9 – Robert Farley, assistant professor at the University of Kentucky’s Patterson School of Diplomacy and International Commerce, 10-22-09, “Neocons Salivating Over Their Next Great Exaggerated "Threat": Electromagnetic Pulse Attack” http://www.alternet.org/media/143455/neocons_salivating_over_their_next_great_exaggerated_%22threat%22%3A_electromagnetic_pulse_attack/?page=entire

Many weapons experts doubt that an [...] even we can't do right now.”


EMP scare tactics are politically motivated for the advancement of missile defense- takes away credibility from their authors
Farley 9 – Robert Farley, assistant professor at the University of Kentucky’s Patterson School of Diplomacy and International Commerce, 10-22-09, “Neocons Salivating Over Their Next Great Exaggerated "Threat": Electromagnetic Pulse Attack” http://www.alternet.org/media/143455/neocons_salivating_over_their_next_great_exaggerated_%22threat%22%3A_electromagnetic_pulse_attack/?page=entire

The central political purpose of the [...] North Korean missiles on their launching pads



=Space Situational Awareness Neg= 
==Inherency== 
===1NC - Greenhill RR=== 
Plan is already being implemented – the U.S. is seeking contractors to create a SBSS Block 10 and will make an award by 2013
Fedbizopps.gov, Aug. 8, ’11 (https://www.fbo.gov/index?s=opportunity&mode=form&id=0e8753f5bfbdae5d22f7a319ed536fd0&tab=core&_cview=0)

The Space and Missile Systems Center's [...] small disadvantaged business firms are encouraged.


==Case Answers== 
===Whitney Young NR Neg - Greenhill RR=== 
====Hegemony Answers==== 
China isn’t a space threat
Lewis, 4 – (August 2004, James A., Center for Strategic and International Studies, “China as a Military Space Competitor,” http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/040801_china_space_competitor.pdf, Sawyer)

Secrecy and dissimulation complicates analysis of [...] how to spend resources for space.


No space race – China won’t and can’t threaten US dominance
Bao, 7 – senior fellow of military theory studies and international relations at the Institute for Military Thought Studies, visiting scholar at the Virginia Military Institute (Winter 2007, Shixiu, China Security, “Deterrence Revisited: Outer Space,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/pdfs/Issue5full.pdf, Sawyer)

Despite the need for an effective [...] be a threat to other countries.


Their evidence is wrong and outdated – US leadership is inevitable and growing relative power will only strengthen the international liberal order to ensure lasting peace.
Ikenberry, 11 – (May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/
articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show DH)

Pronouncements of American decline miss the [...] . But it can still lead.


Nuclear primacy fails
Starr and Yarynich '07
(Valery Yarynich, retired Colonel and served at the Center for Operational and Strategic Studies of the Russian General Staff, Steven Starr, US nuclear weapons expert, "'Nuclear Primacy' is a Fallacy", 4/4/07, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=4991)

We believe such reactions can lead [...] definitive definition of “Nuclear Primacy”.


Heg doesn’t solve war
Preble, 10 – (Christopher Preble, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, August 2010 “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?” http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/)

Most in Washington still embraces the [...] over country pick up the tab.


Heg inevitable – their ev is perennial scaremongering
Nye, 10 -- December University Distinguished Service Professor at Harvard University and former dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard (December 2010, “THE FUTURE OF AMERICAN POWER: DOMINANCE AND DECLINE IN PERSPECTIVE.” Published by Foreign affairs, http://1431731ontario.net/Current/Articles/TheFutureOfAmericanPower_DominanceAndDeclineInPerspective.pdf)

Despite such differences, Americans are [...] lead to dangerous mistakes in policy.


====Miscalc Answers==== 
1. Decision making and empirics prove no accidental war
Quinlan 05- former senior fellow at the International Institute of Strategic Studies
(Sir Michael, “Thinking About Nuclear Weapons,” http://www.rusi.org/downloads/assets/WHP41_QUINLAN.pdf, first published in 1997, reedited in 2005,)

There have certainly been, in [...] widespread and alert arrangements more tense.


2. Human interventions check any risk
Quinlan 09- former senior fellow at the International Institute of Strategic Studies
(Sir Michael, “Thinking About Nuclear Weapons,” http://www.rusi.org/downloads/assets/WHP41_QUINLAN.pdf, first published in 1997, reedited in 2005,)

Similar considerations apply to the hypothesis [...] -of-magnitude increase in caution


Increased military information increases cyberwarfare- adversaries will attack vulnerabilities
Eriksson and Giacomello 6- Johan Eriksson, Associate Professor of Political Science at Sodertorn, and Giampiero Giacomello,Assistant Professor of International Relations at the Dipartimento di Politica, Istituzioni, Storia, Università di Bologna, The Information Revolution, Security, and International Relations: (IR) Relevant Theory? International Political Science Review / Revue internationale de science politique, Vol.27, No. 3 (Jul., 2006), pp. 221-244 http://www.jstor.org/stable/20445053 .

A study by the National Research [...] to control the course of events.


3. No Russia war –5 reasons
Graham 7 – National Security Advisor [Thomas Graham, senior advisor on Russia in the US National Security Council staff 2002-2007, 9- 2007, “The Dialectics of Strength and Weakness,” Russia in Global Affairs, pg. 19]

An astute historian of Russia, [...] long-term relations with Russia.


4. No nuclear accidents
PERROW 1999 (Charles, Professor of Sociology at Yale, Normal Accidents: Living with High-Risk Technology, p 257-258)

No such encouraging lessons come from [...] It just may collapse in confusion!


5. Impacts inevitable – space debris traffic is increasing and most debris cannot be detected.
David 11 - research associate with the Secure World Foundation, winner of the National Space Club Press Award
(Leonard, May 09, “Ugly Truth of Space Junk: Orbital Debris Problem to Triple by 2030”, http://www.space.com/11607-space-junk-rising-orbital-debris-levels-2030.html)

"The traffic is increasing. [...] due to the traffic in space."


6. Accumulation of debris has passed the point of no return.
David 11 - research associate with the Secure World Foundation, winner of the National Space Club Press Award
(Leonard, May 09, “Ugly Truth of Space Junk: Orbital Debris Problem to Triple by 2030”, http://www.space.com/11607-space-junk-rising-orbital-debris-levels-2030.html)

The concern over orbital debris has [...] a few meters, Kaplan said.

=Space Solar Power Neg= 
==Launches DA== 
===1NC - Greenhill RR=== 
SSP requires 100,000 launches to build
Al Globus, space settlement advocate, Spring 08, “On The Moon”, AdAstra: The Magazine of the National Space Society, http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf, umn-rks

While it has been suggested that [...] with a very high launch rate.


That causes space debris
John Kennewell, 2005, “Overview of Orbital Space Debris”, Australian Government: IPS Radio and Space Services, http://www.ips.gov.au/Educational/4/2/1, umn-rks

The initial and continuing source of [...] a new source of space debris.


Debris turns case
Cesar Jaramillo, managing editor at Project Ploughshares, et. all, August 2010, “Space Security 2010”, Space Security Index, http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf, umn-rks

Space is a harsh environment and [...] objects bigger than a few centimeters.


Increased debris collapses every major economic sector
Ansdell 10 – PhD Candidate @ GWU Megan Ansdell, Graduate Student @ GWU, 2010, “Active Space Debris Removal,” Princeton Publications, http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf

Although the probability of catastrophic collisions [...] and global communications (Pace 2009).


Nuclear war and turns every impact
Harris and Burrows 9 Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf Increased Potential for Global Conflict

Of course, the report encompasses [...] dog-eat-dog world.


==DoD Anchor Tenant CP== 
===1NC - Greenhill RR=== 
Text: The United States federal government should not develop space-based solar power. The Department of Defense should replace current spending on fossil fuels by agreeing to pay at least one dollar per kilowatt-hour for space-based solar power services developed by the private sector. The United States federal government should offer long-term, low-interest, guaranteed loans to any private company that expresses interest in investing in space-based solar power.

Being an anchor tenant is the only way for the DOD to create investment
NSSO 7 (October 2007, National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf, FS)

FINDING: The SBSP Study Group [...] the National GeoSpatial‐imaging Agency.


Loan guarantees solve better than the aff
Bova, 1AC author, 8 –award-winning editor and an executive in the aerospace industry Ben, “TO THE NEXT PRESIDENT From Ben Bova,” 10-2008, http://www.benbova.com/presidentltr1.html

Once you enter the White House [...] to move away from fossil fuels.

==Concentrated Solar Power CP== 
===1NC - Greenhill RR=== 
Text: The United States federal government should build 15,000 one-Giga-watt concentrated solar plants as described by our Henson evidence

Solves and is cheaper
Keith Henson, the oil drum, 9/3/11, “WOULD THIS WORK? Concentrated Solar Power 12 Miles Above The Earth”, http://www.businessinsider.com/would-this-work-concentrated-solar-power-12-miles-above-the-earth-2011-9, umn-rks

A small number of volunteer engineers [...] The light curve is practically square.


==Case Answers== 
===Juan Diego IR Neg - Greenhill RR=== 
====Cooperation Answers==== 
Cooperation in the squo
A. Obama’s NSP
Rose, 11 –Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance (Frank, “STRENGTHENING STABILITY IN SPACE,” REGULATORY INTELLIGENCE DATA, 4/4, lexis)

Why is SSA important to space [...] mishaps, misperceptions, and mistrust.


B.Consultation
Logsdon 11-- Professor Emeritus of Political Science and International Affairs at George Washington University
(February, 2011, John M., Space Policy,“Change and Continuity in US Space Policy” Vol. 27, Issue 1, p. 22-23, Science Direct, FS)

The new National Space Policy [...] interests in the security space arena.


Even if both nations are on face committed to cooperation, multiple barriers ensure it will fail
Rendleman and Faulconer 10 (James, USAF Colonel, and J. Walter, Executive for Civilian Space @ Applied Physics Laboratory, “ Perspectives on Improving United States International Space Cooperation,” http://strategicspacesolutions.com/Public-papers/IAC-10B38-E775.pdf, EMM)

International civil space cooperation is admired [...] difficult. Government vs. commercial interest


Cooperation fails - 3 reasons
Fukushima 10 (Yasuhito, National Institute for Defense Studies, Ministry of Defense Japan, “An Asian perspective on the new US space policy: The emphasis on international cooperation and its relevance to Asia, December)

Yet it should be noted that [...] be considered when promoting international cooperation.

====Econ Answers==== 
Their evidence is wrong and outdated – US leadership is inevitable and growing relative power will only strengthen the international liberal order to ensure lasting peace.
Ikenberry, 11 – (May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/
articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show DH)

Pronouncements of American decline miss the [...] . But it can still lead.


alt causes to aerospace collapse – ITAR restrictions
NSSO, 7 (National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)

FINDING: The SBSP Study Group [...] to U.S. bidders.


Maintenance costs and placement in geostationary orbit make it not cost competitive
Ditto, 8 - Fellow, NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts (Thomas, reader comments on “Harvest the Sun — From Space”, 7/23, http://community.nytimes.com/article/comments/2008/07/23/opinion/23smith.html?permid=73#comment73)

O. Glenn Smith doesn't address [...] to fixed earth stations makes sense.

====Solvency Answers==== 

No solvency – SSP launch costs are too high regardless of government action
Desanti et al. 11 – Professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology (2011, Brendan Desanti, Nicholas Picon, Carlos Rios, Shaan Shah, Narayanan Komerath,
Daniel Guggenheim – all students at the Georgia Institute of Technology, “A US-INDIA POWER EXCHANGE TOWARDS A SPACE POWER GRID,” http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/2011-US-IndiaPowerExchange.pdf)

The 1979 NASA/DOE studies [...] competition except for very special applications.


SSP would have to meet an absurd set of requirements to succeed—launch costs, efficiency problems, terrestrial competition, and maintenance costs make success impossible
Fetter 04—PhD in energy and resources from UC Berkley and professor at the University of Maryland
(Fetter, Steve “Space Solar Power: An Idea Whose Time Will Never Come?”, http://drum.lib.umd.edu/bitstream/1903/3992/1/2004-P&S-SSP.pdf , FS)

In summary, SSP could [...] concept would be unwise and unwarranted.


NASA fails—can’t spur commercial development or lower launch costs
Nansen 10-- led the Boeing engineers in the Satellite Power System Concept Development and Evaluation Program for the Department of Energy and NASA, and President Solar Space Industries (Winter 2010, Richard, Online Journal of Space Communication, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment”, Issue No. 16, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html , FS)

The barrier to their development is [...] program such as Solar Power Satellites.


40 years away.
Day, 8 (Dwayne, “Knights in shining armor,” The Space Review, 6/9,
http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1147/1)

The NSSO study is remarkably sensible [...] fallen in love with the messenger.


===Carrollton UV Neg - Greenhill RR=== 
====Energy Answers==== 
CO2 doesn’t lead to warming
Philip Haddad June 22, 2011 PhD Chem. E. retd. Carbon Dioxide does not Cause Global Warming! http://www.alvinsun.net/articles/2011/06/22/opinion/editorials/doc4e0228a53ed3d528547342.txt

There is a mistaken notion that [...] carbon dioxide provides cooling through photosynthesis.


No extinction
INPCC 11. Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change. Surviving the unprecedented climate change of the IPCC. 8 March 2011. http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2011/mar/8mar2011a5.html

In a paper published in Systematics [...] to wide amplitude fluctuations in climate."


Too late to stop warming
CLICK GREEN 1-7-2011 (““Unstoppable effects” of climate change will last for 1,000 years,” http://www.clickgreen.org.uk/opinion/opinion/121749-%E2%80%9Cunstoppable-effects%E2%80%9D-of-climate-change-will-last-for-1,000-years.html)
New research indicates the impact of [...] beginning in 2010 and in 2100.


No resource wars
(a) Empirics and studies
Salehyan 07 – Idean Salehyan Professor of Political Science at the University of North Texas. “The New Myth About Climate Change Corrupt, tyrannical governments—not changes in the Earth’s climate—will be to blame for the coming resource wars.” By Idean Salehyan | August 14, 2007 http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2007/08/13/the_new_myth_about_climate_change
First, aside from a few [...] than resource scarcity and natural disasters.


SSP is inefficient for energy
Roy Wood, 6/10/11, “Space-Based Solar Power: An Overview”, http://www.wired.com/geekdad/2011/06/space-based-solar-power-an-overview/, umn-rks

There are many avenues of research [...] concept of orbital solar power practical.


Can’t convert the energy
Donald Rapp, former professor, Fellow of the American Physical Society, and independent contractor for NASA, 2/18/07, “Assessment of Concepts for Utilizing Lunar Resources”, http://home.earthlink.net/~drdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf, umn-rks

Several technologies could be employed for [...] cost mass production of these elements.


SPS can’t solve warming – existing CO2
Mark Hempsell, senior lecturer in space technology at the University of Bristol, Acta Astronautica, Volume 59, Issue 7, October 2006, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094576506001755

The key contributor to global warming [...] dependence on energy from fossil fuels.


====Leadership Answers==== 
Their evidence is wrong and outdated – US leadership is inevitable and growing relative power will only strengthen the international liberal order to ensure lasting peace.
Ikenberry, 11 – (May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/
articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show DH)

Pronouncements of American decline miss the [...] . But it can still lead.


Their stimulus advantage is flawed:
Keynes was wrong – stimulus proves spending can’t help
High 9/14/11 (Jack, “ Keynesian spending won’t save the economy ” http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/keynesian-spending-wont-save-the-economy/2011/09/13/gIQAnO30SK_story.html)

In his Sept. 11 Business [...] spending are neither anachronistic nor irresponsible.


Inflatable structures risk destruction in space
Steve Tung, et all, 2001, “A MEMS-based flexible sensor and actuator system for space inflatable structures”, Vol. 10, No. 6, http://iopscience.iop.org/0964-1726/10/6/312, umn-rks

Inflatable and other membrane structures are [...] `wrinkles' and dampen structural vibration.


No impact to oil dependence
Taylor, 4 – senior fellow at the CATO institute (Jerry, “energy independence? Kerry’s dreaming,” August 24, 2004)
Are we then "dangerously beholden [...] was more symbolic than anything else."


Energy Independence breaks down deterrence – every war becomes inevitable
Miller, 10 – professor of political science (Gregory, “The Security Costs of Energy Independence,” April 2010, Gregory D. Miller is an assistant professor of political science at the University of Oklahoma)
International Conflict A drop in demand [...] in cooperating with the United States.

===New Trier BN Neg - Greenhill=== 
====Aerospace Answers==== 
SSP requires 100,000 launches to build
Al Globus, space settlement advocate, Spring 08, “On The Moon”, AdAstra: The Magazine of the National Space Society, http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf, umn-rks

While it has been suggested that [...] with a very high launch rate.


That causes space debris
John Kennewell, 2005, “Overview of Orbital Space Debris”, Australian Government: IPS Radio and Space Services, http://www.ips.gov.au/Educational/4/2/1, umn-rks

The initial and continuing source of [...] a new source of space debris.


Debris turns case
Cesar Jaramillo, managing editor at Project Ploughshares, et. all, August 2010, “Space Security 2010”, Space Security Index, http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf, umn-rks

Space is a harsh environment and [...] objects bigger than a few centimeters.


alt causes to aerospace collapse- ITAR restrictions
NSSO, 7 (National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)

FINDING: The SBSP Study Group [...] to U.S. bidders.


Maintenance costs and placement in geostationary orbit make it not cost competitive
Ditto, 8 - Fellow, NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts (Thomas, reader comments on “Harvest the Sun — From Space”, 7/23, http://community.nytimes.com/article/comments/2008/07/23/opinion/23smith.html?permid=73#comment73)

O. Glenn Smith doesn't address [...] to fixed earth stations makes sense.

====Leadership Answers==== 
No impact to getting to space first
Coffelt, 5 – Lt. Colonal; thesis to the school of advanced air and space studies (Christopher A, “THE BEST DEFENSE: CHARTING THE FUTURE OFUS SPACE STRATEGY AND POLICY.” A Thesis Presented to the Faculty of the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies For Completion of the Graduation Requirements SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIES AIR UNIVERSITY, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. June 2005.)

Sputnik’s launch bestowed the honor and [...] for positive action and offensive solutions.


Their evidence is wrong and outdated – US leadership is inevitable and growing relative power will only strengthen the international liberal order to ensure lasting peace.
Ikenberry, 11 – (May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/
articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show DH)

Pronouncements of American decline miss the [...] . But it can still lead.


Decline doesn’t cause war
Geller and Singer, ’99 [Chair of the Department of Political Science @ Wayne State University (Daniel S and Joel David, Nations at war: a scientific study of international conflict, p. 116-117)]

Hopf (1991) and Levy [...] of major powers in the system.


Energy sharing assumes global development and coordination of SSP – not US unilateralism
Kusiolek 9 – Chairman of TransGlobal Richard Kusiolek, Chairman & President of TransGlobalNet Inc., a Mountain View California company that provides Global Management Consulting in International Marketing, 3-2009, “Space-based Solar Power Comes to Light,” Via Satellite, Lexis

The satellite industry's efforts in the [...] the United States," he says.


Unilateral SSP destroys international cooperation – their evidence assumes the US explicitly cooperates
Sadeh 8 - Associate Director for the Center for Space and Defense Studies at the United States Air Force Academy Eligar Eligar, Associate Director for the Center for Space and Defense Studies at the United States Air Force Academy Eligar, The Space Review, “Space policy questions and decisions facing a new administration”, 6/9, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1146/1

Policy Choice United States government [...] the United States in the 1960s.

====Resource Wars Answers==== 
SSP is inefficient for energy
Roy Wood, 6/10/11, “Space-Based Solar Power: An Overview”, http://www.wired.com/geekdad/2011/06/space-based-solar-power-an-overview/, umn-rks

There are many avenues of research [...] concept of orbital solar power practical.


Can’t convert the energy
Donald Rapp, former professor, Fellow of the American Physical Society, and independent contractor for NASA, 2/18/07, “Assessment of Concepts for Utilizing Lunar Resources”, http://home.earthlink.net/~drdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf, umn-rks

Several technologies could be employed for [...] cost mass production of these elements.

No resource wars
Salehyan 7 assistant professor of political science at the University of North Texas [Idean Salehyan, “The New Myth About Climate Change”, Foreign Policy, August 2007, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=3922]

First, aside from a few [...] than resource scarcity and natural disasters.


No impact to oil dependence
Taylor, 4 – senior fellow at the CATO institute (Jerry, “energy independence? Kerry’s dreaming,” August 24, 2004)

Are we then "dangerously beholden [...] was more symbolic than anything else."


Won’t hit peak oil for 30 years and then we have oil for another 200-300 years. Plus, tech will lead to more time
VOA News 08 Dr. Michael J. Economides Professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering “Is the world running out of oil?” http://www.voanews.com/english/news/a-13-2008-03-05-voa7-66810217.html

Some analysts maintain that after large [...] extend reserves and world production capacity."

===Homewood-Flossmoor CG Neg - St. Marks=== 
====Hegemony Answers==== 

No impact to oil dependence
Taylor, 4 – senior fellow at the CATO institute (Jerry, “energy independence? Kerry’s dreaming,” August 24, 2004)

Are we then "dangerously beholden [...] was more symbolic than anything else."


SSP can’t be used for UAVs or the military
W. Neil Johnson, High-energy Space Environment Branch: Space Science Division, et. all, 10/23/09, “Space-based Solar Power: Possible Defense Applications and Opportunities for NRL Contributions”, Naval Research Laboratory, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/2008-NRLSBSP-PossibleDefenseApplicationsAndOpportunities.pdf, umn-rks

Direct SBSP power delivery to daily [...] with near-term foreseeable technology.


Their evidence is wrong and outdated – US leadership is inevitable and growing relative power will only strengthen the international liberal order to ensure lasting peace.
Ikenberry, 11 – (May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/
articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show DH)

Pronouncements of American decline miss the [...] . But it can still lead.


Turn—Casualty Aversion Airpower creates a mentality of casualty aversion that limits the use of ground forces but increases over all interventions because they are perceived as low-cost—this destroys U.S. credibility
LACQUEMENT 2004 (Lt. Col. Richard, Naval War College Review, Winter)

Evocations of the casualty-aversion [...] require escalation to achieve success.50


That takes out their ground forces internal link
LACQUEMENT 2004 (Lt. Col. Richard, Naval War College Review, Winter)

There was continuous commentary on the [...] of ground troops, a bluff.


Alt causes to naval failure
Whiteneck, et al. 10 – (Mar. 2010, Dr. Daniel J. Whiteneck, Ph.D., Director for European Programs in the Center for Strategic Studies at the Center for Naval Analyses, former Professor of Political Science at Towson University and Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy and at the University of Colorado at Boulder; Dr. Michael Price; Dr. Neil Jenkins; Dr. Peter M. Swartz, Research Analyst at CNA; “The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?” Center for Naval Analyses, report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense, p.37-41, http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/Documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf)

If the Navy continues on the [...] operations to decisively influence events ashore.


NCW doesn’t help heg
Thompson 10 – Chief Operating Officer of the non-profit Lexington Institute and Chief Executive Officer of Source Associates (8/9/2010, Loren, “The Twilight Of Network-Centric Warfare”, Early Warning Blog, http://www.defpro.com/news/details/17429/) MGM

The first thing that went wrong [...] an idea whose time has passed.


Silver market is tightening but will maintain a surplus
Frank Tang, Reuters, 2/11/11, “US silver term structure inverts as supply tightens”, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/02/11/silver-backwardation-idUSN1133112820110211

NEW YORK, Feb 11 ( [...] . (Editing by Alden Bentley)


Solar panels require huge quantities of silver to transmit electricity.
Matt Savinar, Political Science from the University of California at Davis, J.D. from the University of California at Hastings College of the Law, "The Peak Oil and Die-Off," 2004, ACC. 6/7/2008, http://www.unicamp.br/fea/ortega/eco/traducao-DieOff.pdf, p. 58

The geographic areas most suited for [...] precious metal already in short supply.


Silver depletion would shut down U.S. military – metal mines prove
Charles Savoie, Master of Fine Arts degree from Illinois State University, 10-8-2004, silver4India, NM, http://www.silver4india.com/silver4india/modules/news/article.php?storyid=63

"Representative White Warns that Any [...] metals and lacquers is not adequate."


Beams for terrestrial power crowd out other uses of the microwave spectrum
Goldstein ’02, Donald M. Goldstein, Ph.D. University of Denver, Professor of Public and International Affairs at the University of Pittsburgh, 4-25, The New Viability of Space Solar Power: Global Mobilization for a Common Human Endeavor, http://www.homeplanetdefense.org/Space%20Solar%20Power1.pdf, DKreus

Another possible obstacle to SSP is [...] on the surface of the Earth.


That kills the military
Paige ‘97, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense (Emmett Jr., Electromagnetic spectrum: key to success in future conflicts, volume 11, Number 83, April 13, http://www.elastic.org/~fche/mirrors/www.jya.com/emskey.htm)

Our military, just like much [...] realism and hence training effectiveness suffers.


No internal link—SPS is not practical for military applications–the tech not feasible and bases are too small
Jaffe, 10 – U.S. Naval Research Laboratory (1/28/10, Paul, AIP Conference Proceedings, SPACE, PROPULSION & ENERGY SCIENCES INTERNATIONAL FORMUM, “A Study of Defense Applications of Space Solar Power,” Vol. 1208, Is. 1, http://link.aip.org.proxy.lib.umich.edu/link/?APCPCS/1208/585/1)RK

It was observed that safe power [...] technology. (Johnson, 2008)

====Warming Answers==== 
Ozone is recovering now but plan kills it
Ross et al 09 (Martin Ross The Aerospace Corporation, Los Angeles , Darin Toohey University of Colorado , Manfred Peinemann The Aerospace Corporation, Los Angeles & Patrick Ross Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University “Limits on the Space Launch Market Related to Stratospheric Ozone Depletion” http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/14777620902768867)

Combustion emissions from rocket launches change [...] launches on the global ozone layer.


Loss of the Ozone leaves us defenseless from UV rays which destroy ocean biodiversity, turns warming
EPA 11 (January 1/13/2011, “Health and Environmental Effects of Ozone Layer Depletion”, http://www.epa.gov/ozone/science/effects/index.html TC, EA)

The Connection Between Ozone Layer Depletion [...] for which they are useful outdoors.


SPS can’t solve warming – existing CO2
Mark Hempsell, senior lecturer in space technology at the University of Bristol, Acta Astronautica, Volume 59, Issue 7, October 2006, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094576506001755

The key contributor to global warming [...] dependence on energy from fossil fuels.


CO2 isn’t key, warming isn’t caused by humans, and historical data prove there is no impact.
John Deaver, The Times Herald, “Deaver: Cap and Trade bill not the answer to global warming,” 8/10/2010, http://www.thetimesherald.com/article/20100810/OPINION02/8100310/Deaver-Cap-and-Trade-bill-not-the-answer-to-global-warming

Wait a minute! While it [...] have any impact on global warming.


Warming is irreversible
ANI 10, [3-20-2010, http://news.oneindia.in/2010/03/20/ipcchas-underestimated-climate-change-impacts-sayscientis.html]

According to Charles H. Greene [...] dangerous climate change," said Green.


Bee colonies on brink now
Potter 10 (Ned, ABC senior international correspondent and reporter. March 25, 2010 “Honeybees Dying: Scientists Wonder Why, and Worry about Food Supply”http://abcnews.go.com/Technology/honey-bees-dying-scientists-suspect-pesticides-disease-worry/story?id=10191391)

No matter where you live -- [...] my numbers, but it's hard."


SPS will extinguish honeybees from the planet
Trower 8 (scientific advisor to radiation research trust, h.e.s.e international, and electrosensitivityUK, Presentation to the Beekeepers Association Glastonbury August 9, 2008, “ is colony collapse the price of emf progress” http://www.scribd.com/doc/4731008/Is-Colony-Collapse-the-price-of-emf-progress-#archive)

The bee is this planet’s most [...] can go to escape such microwaves.


Bees are critical to global food supply
Jha 11 – science correspondent for the Guardian Alok, January 3, “ Bees in freefall as study shows sharp US decline”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/jan/03/bumblebees-study-us-decline?intcmp=122,) NEH

The abundance of four common species [...] long way to mitigating further losses."


No extinction
INPCC 11. Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change. Surviving the unprecedented climate change of the IPCC. 8 March 2011. http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2011/mar/8mar2011a5.html

In a paper published in Systematics [...] to wide amplitude fluctuations in climate."


Warming doesn’t lead to war
Richard S.J. Tol and Sebastian Wagner, Economic and Social Research Institute, Dublin, Ireland, Institute for Coastal Research, GKSS Research Centre, 1/15/08, http://www.fnu.zmaw.de/fileadmin/fnu-files/publication/working-papers/climatewarwp.pdf

In this paper, we study [...] does put that idea to rest.

===New Trier KS Neg=== 
====Missiles Answers==== 
No missile attacks
Forden, 8 - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)

However, China could not launch [...] tremendous redundancy of its space assets.


Turn—Casualty Aversion Airpower creates a mentality of casualty aversion that limits the use of ground forces but increases over all interventions because they are perceived as low-cost—this destroys U.S. credibility
LACQUEMENT 2004 (Lt. Col. Richard, Naval War College Review, Winter)

Evocations of the casualty-aversion [...] require escalation to achieve success.50


That takes out their ground forces internal link
LACQUEMENT 2004 (Lt. Col. Richard, Naval War College Review, Winter)

There was continuous commentary on the [...] of ground troops, a bluff.


Withdrawal from Europe won’t cause nuclearization, but will preserve heg
Sustainable Defense Task Force 10—SDTF is a group of individuals from think tanks and political foundations and institutes (7/11/10, Report of the Sustainable Defense Task Force, Common Wealth Institute, “Debts, Deficits, and Defense A Way Forward” http://www.comw.org/pda/fulltext/1006SDTFreport.pdf)

Conventional Forces – Options for Saving [...] for use worldwide, as needed.


Alt causes to naval failure
Whiteneck, et al. 10 – (Mar. 2010, Dr. Daniel J. Whiteneck, Ph.D., Director for European Programs in the Center for Strategic Studies at the Center for Naval Analyses, former Professor of Political Science at Towson University and Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy and at the University of Colorado at Boulder; Dr. Michael Price; Dr. Neil Jenkins; Dr. Peter M. Swartz, Research Analyst at CNA; “The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?” Center for Naval Analyses, report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense, p.37-41, http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/Documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf)

If the Navy continues on the [...] operations to decisively influence events ashore.


Their evidence is wrong and outdated – US leadership is inevitable and growing relative power will only strengthen the international liberal order to ensure lasting peace.
Ikenberry, 11 – (May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/
articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show DH)

Pronouncements of American decline miss the [...] . But it can still lead.


No terrorism – hard to pull off, not many terrorists, and small attacks don’t cut it
Schneier 5-5-2010 - masters degree in computer science from American University, chief technology officer and founder of BT Counterpane Internet Security (Bruce, “Why Aren't There More Terrorist Attacks?”, Schneier on Security, May 5th, http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2010/05/why_arent_there.html)

As the details of the Times [...] to slip up and get caught.


No escalation – empirical
Strobel and Landay, 10 – Foreign affairs correspondent, reporter (Warren and Jonathan, 5/25/10, Yahoo News, “Will North Korea's saber rattling lead to war?”
http://news.yahoo.com/s/mcclatchy/20100525/wl_mcclatchy/3516222)

"It's not inevitable that it [...] the northern border town of Kaesong.

===New Trier CM Neg=== 
====Missile Defense Answers==== 
Current SSA solves the weather internal
Krepon et al, 11 – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space
Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)

Space situational awareness (SSA)— [...] rules of the road in space.


Space BMD is not technologically possible for 10 years and there is international opposition
Fakiolas 9. (Efstathios T., Department of Political Sciende and International Relations at the University of Peloponnese and Strategy and Southeast European Affairs analyst for ATEbank and Tassos E., special advisor on Russian and East European Affairs. “Space Control and Hegemony.”) The Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, Volume 21, No. 2, June 2009, pg. 137-153.

On the other hand, some [...] . . . briefings.’’45 \


Nuclear deterrence checks
Friedman 11 – (June 15, 2011. Jonah Friedman, “Deterrence and Space-Based BMD,” Center for Strategic and International Studies, http://csis.org/blog/deterrence-and-space-based-bmd)

Earlier this week, Foundation for [...] “Nuclear reality transcends political rhetoric.”


Brilliant pebbles fail
Government Accountability Office, 92 – Government Accountability Office (Government Accountability Office, September 8, 1992, Government Accounatbility Office, http://www.gao.gov/products/NSIAD-92-282)

The Strategic Defense Initiative program is [...] difficult daytime tests were never conducted.


Airpower creates a casualty aversion—destroys U.S. credibility
LACQUEMENT 2004 (Lt. Col. Richard, Naval War College Review, Winter)

Evocations of the casualty-aversion [...] require escalation to achieve success.50


That takes out their ground forces internal link
LACQUEMENT 2004 (Lt. Col. Richard, Naval War College Review, Winter)

There was continuous commentary on the [...] of ground troops, a bluff.


Alt causes to naval failure
Whiteneck, et al. 10 – (Mar. 2010, Dr. Daniel J. Whiteneck, Ph.D., Director for European Programs in the Center for Strategic Studies at the Center for Naval Analyses, former Professor of Political Science at Towson University and Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy and at the University of Colorado at Boulder; Dr. Michael Price; Dr. Neil Jenkins; Dr. Peter M. Swartz, Research Analyst at CNA; “The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?” Center for Naval Analyses, report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense, p.37-41, http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/Documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf)

If the Navy continues on the [...] operations to decisively influence events ashore.


Their evidence is wrong and outdated – US leadership is inevitable and growing relative power will only strengthen the international liberal order to ensure lasting peace.
Ikenberry, 11 – (May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/
articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show DH)

Pronouncements of American decline miss [...] . But it can still lead.


No terrorism – hard to pull off, not many terrorists, and small attacks don’t cut it
Schneier 5-5-2010 - masters degree in computer science from American University, chief technology officer and founder of BT Counterpane Internet Security (Bruce, “Why Aren't There More Terrorist Attacks?”, Schneier on Security, May 5th, http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2010/05/why_arent_there.html)

As the details of the Times [...] to slip up and get caught.


No Korean war – regime wants to preserve its survival
Asia Monitor, 09 (7/1/09, “Rising Risk of Military Crash” http://www.lexisnexis.com)

Despite its provocative actions, we [...] , post-Kim Jong Il.


Hardening is impossible – space assets are inherently vulnerable – we should reduce military reliance on satellites
Denmark 2010 - Fellow with the Center for a New American Security [By Abraham M. and Dr. James Mulvenon CNAS, Jan, Contested Commons: The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS%20Contested %20Commons%20Capstone_0.pdf Accessed Jun 21]

However, replenishment and hardening is [...] extended flight times offer significant promise.


Hardening and maneuver capabilities fail
Krepon et al, 11 – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space
Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)

The vulnerability of terrestrial space assets [...] limited attacks can cause grievous injury.



=Spanos Neg= 
==Case Answers== 
===Reagan SZ Neg - Greenhill=== 
====Imperialism/Colonization Answers==== 
Mars colonization spurs tech development—solves warming
FREEMAN 2011—major in neuroscience/ minor in philosophy (29 June 2011, “Humanity Should Begin Efforts to Colonize Mars,” http://www.debate.org/debates/Humanity-Should-Begin-Efforts-to-Colonize-Mars/1/, RBatra)

C1: Colonizing Mars has numerous [...] new industries that bring valuable jobs.


We have already crossed the threshold of sustainability – Continued technological advancement is key to undo the damage and prevent extinction of all species
AtKisson 1 (President and CEO of The AtKisson Group, an international sustainability consultancy to business and government, “Sustainability is Dead— Long Live Sustainability” http://www.rrcap.unep.org/uneptg06/course/Robert/SustainabilityManifesto2001.pdf)

The evidence that we are beyond [...] , and we can never stop.


Mars colonization solves Earth resource constraints
FREEMAN 11—major in neuroscience/ minor in philosophy (29 June 2011, “Humanity Should Begin Efforts to Colonize Mars,” http://www.debate.org/debates/Humanity-Should-Begin-Efforts-to-Colonize-Mars/1/, RBatra)

C2: There are overwhelming economic [...] the planet has for human life.


This is the only check on extinction
Garan, 10 – Astronaut (Ron, 3/30/10, Speech published in an article by Nancy Atkinson, “The Importance of Returning to the Moon,” http://www.universetoday.com/61256/astronaut-explains-why-we-should-return-to-the-moon/, JMP)

Resources and Other Benefits: Since [...] a sustainable permanent human lunar settlement.


Realism is true and inevitable – a shift away collapses into chaos.
Mearsheimer 2001 [professor of political science at University of Chicago, The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, pg. 361]

The optimists' claim that security competition [...] states in each region at peace.


Imperialism solves violence
Shaw 2K2 Martin Shaw, Professor of International Relations and Politics, University of Sussex, THE PROBLEM OF THE QUASI-IMPERIAL STATE: USES AND ABUSES OF ANTI-IMPERIALISM IN THE GLOBAL ERA, April 7, 2002, p. http://www.martinshaw.org/empire.htm

What is particularly important to note [...] look to violent means of change.


Rejecting imperialism causes genocide
Shaw 2K2 Martin Shaw, Professor of International Relations and Politics, University of Sussex, THE PROBLEM OF THE QUASI-IMPERIAL STATE: USES AND ABUSES OF ANTI-IMPERIALISM IN THE GLOBAL ERA, April 7, 2002, p. http://www.martinshaw.org/empire.htm

Generally, therefore, Western power [...] manipulate to genuine global democratic governance.


rejecting u.s. imperialism makes retalitory violence against the us inevitable
Hollander 2K2 Paul Hollander, NATIONAL INTEREST, Summer 2002

The beliefs of this aging subculture [...] Shining Path? Maoists in Nepal?).


US leadership solves war
Zhang and Shi 11. (Both MA candidates at Columbia University. Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/

Paul Kennedy was probably right: [...] be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.


They are wrong – American exceptionalism and unipolarity is necessary to world peace
Robert Kagan, 2007 senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [“End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, web)

This is a good thing, [...] involvement will provide an easier path.


Keeping the American frontier open is necessary for human survival
GRAY 1999 (D.M., “Space as a frontier - the role of human motivation,” Space Policy, August)

Whether in the striking of a [...] obtained in the comforts of civilization.

=TSATs Neg= 
==Case Answers== 
===Blake MM Neg - Greenhill=== 
====China Answers==== 
Won’t break the taboo
Roehrig, 10 (Terence, Associate Professor in National Security Studies at the U.S. Naval War College,Ph.D UW-Madison, past President of the Association of Korean Political Studies, "Nuclear Weapons and Extended Deterrence:The U.S. Nuclear Umbrella over South Korea", U.S. Naval War CollegeNational Security Decision Making Department, February 2010, http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/4/1/6/5/7/pages416574/p416574-1.php)

Despite the certainty of the verbiage [...] U.S. nuclear umbrella.


And, Less than 2% probability of cyber terror
Conway, 11 – Lecturer in International Security in the School of Law and Government at Dublin City University [February, Maura, “Against Cyberterrorism: Why cyber-based terrorist attacks are unlikely to occur”, Communications of the ACM, Volume 54, Number 2, p. 26-28, AL]

Violent jihadis’ IT knowledge is not [...] bomb attacks planned and carried out by


Relations resilient – constant cooperation will only increase
Wenzhao, 09 – Senior Researcher at the Institute of American Studies of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences
(Tao, 2/17/09, “Positive signs ahead for Sino-US relations,” China Daily, http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/cndy/2009-02/17/content_7482140.htm)

The direction of Sino-US [...] continue to develop during Obama's tenure.


No nuclear accidents
PERROW 1999 (Charles, Professor of Sociology at Yale, Normal Accidents: Living with High-Risk Technology, p 257-258)
No such encouraging lessons come from [...] It just may collapse in confusion!


China has no motivation to start a war
Bremmer 10 – president of Eurasia Group and author (Ian Bremmer, “China vs. America: Fight of the Century,” Prospect, March 22, 2010, http://www.prospectmagazine.co.uk/2010/03/china-vs-america-fight-of-the-century/, ZBurdette)

China will not mount a military [...] Taiwan’s business elite privileged investment opportunities.

====Warfighting Answers==== 
Turn—Casualty Aversion
Airpower creates a mentality of casualty aversion that limits the use of ground forces but increases over all interventions because they are perceived as low-cost—this destroys U.S. credibility
LACQUEMENT 2004 (Lt. Col. Richard, Naval War College Review, Winter)

Evocations of the casualty-aversion [...] require escalation to achieve success.50


That takes out their ground forces internal link
LACQUEMENT 2004 (Lt. Col. Richard, Naval War College Review, Winter)

There was continuous commentary on the [...] of ground troops, a bluff.


Withdrawal from Europe won’t cause nuclearization, but will preserve heg
Sustainable Defense Task Force 10—SDTF is a group of individuals from think tanks and political foundations and institutes (7/11/10, Report of the Sustainable Defense Task Force, Common Wealth Institute, “Debts, Deficits, and Defense A Way Forward” http://www.comw.org/pda/fulltext/1006SDTFreport.pdf)

Conventional Forces – Options for Saving [...] for use worldwide, as needed.


If their terrorism arguments were correct attacks would already be happening—experts, government officials, and media outlets are all wrong—dangerous terrorist networks have been destroyed
MUELLER 2006 (John, Professor of Political Science at Ohio State University, Foreign Affairs, Sep/Oct)

For the past five years, [...] But this explanation is rarely offered.


Prolif doesn’t hurt stability
Asal and Beardsley, 2007 [Victor, Assistant Prof. Pol. Sci. – SUNY Albany, and Kyle, Assistant Prof. Pol. Sci. – Emory U., Journal of Peace Research, “Proliferation and International Crisis Behavior”, 44:2, Sage]

Other, more optimistic, scholars [...] the potential gains of an attacker’.


U.S. Hegemony will never collapse
Friedman 09 [George Friedman is an American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. He has authored several books, The Next 100 Years p 13-31]

We are now in an America [...] century will be the American century.


No german prolif
Stanley, ‘07 [Elizabeth, professor for Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown and former US Army intelligence officer in Germany, February 2007, “International Perceptions of US Nuclear Policy”, Sandria Report, p. 82]

It is unlikely that Germany will [...] circumstances will occur is highly unlikely.


No Russia war –5 reasons
Graham 7 – National Security Advisor [Thomas Graham, senior advisor on Russia in the US National Security Council staff 2002-2007, 9- 2007, “The Dialectics of Strength and Weakness,” Russia in Global Affairs, pg. 19]

An astute historian of Russia, [...] long-term relations with Russia.


Your evidence is false and lies from al-Qaeda- drones provide effective intelligence and comparatively reduce civilian casualties- it weakens terrorists and denies them sanctuary
Cordesman 6/20- PhD, Analyzes political and military strategy for the Center for Strategic & International Studies and former director of intelligence assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense
(6/20/10, Newsday, “Drone on; Unmanned strikes are the difference between surgery and butchery in war” pg online @ lexisnexis, au)

Earlier this month, a UN [...] the last 4,000 years.


US mediation prevents Indo-Pak escalation
Gery Armsby, June 27, 2002, Workers World Newspaper, “Anti-imperialist unity reaches across borders,” http://www.workers.org/ww/2002/indipak0627.php

Because a war between India and [...] up their anti-war activities.


No resource wars
Salehyan 7 assistant professor of political science at the University of North Texas [Idean Salehyan, “The New Myth About Climate Change”, Foreign Policy, August 2007, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=3922]

First, aside from a few [...] conflict than resource scarcity and natural disasters


Net war doesn’t help hegemony – also, the US has ended all net war programs, the aff can’t solve
Thompson 10 – Chief Operating Officer of the non-profit Lexington Institute and Chief Executive Officer of Source Associates (8/9/2010, Loren, “The Twilight Of Network-Centric Warfare”, Early Warning Blog, http://www.defpro.com/news/details/17429/) MGM

The first thing that went wrong [...] an idea whose time has passed.


NCW trades off with ground focus – ground centric strategy is the key internal to Military Dominance and Heg
Kagan 6 – American resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, and a former professor of military history at West Point (July/August 2006, Frederick, “The U.S. Military's Manpower Crisis”, Foreign Affairs, Vol. 85, No. 4, pp. 97-110, JSTOR)

Already, the change has borne [...] will-use to harm it.


Multiple Alt Causes to Pakistan Instability – civil unrest and sectarianism means collapse inevitable
Dominic Di-Natale, independent foreign and business correspondent, 11 [“Pak’s big step closer to destabilization”, Fox News, January 2nd, http://liveshots.blogs.foxnews.com/2011/01/05/paks-big-step-closer-to-destabilization/]

Pak’s big step closer to destabilization [...] if indeed that hasn't already begun.


Alt causes to naval failure
Whiteneck, et al. 10 – (Mar. 2010, Dr. Daniel J. Whiteneck, Ph.D., Director for European Programs in the Center for Strategic Studies at the Center for Naval Analyses, former Professor of Political Science at Towson University and Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy and at the University of Colorado at Boulder; Dr. Michael Price; Dr. Neil Jenkins; Dr. Peter M. Swartz, Research Analyst at CNA; “The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?” Center for Naval Analyses, report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense, p.37-41, http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/Documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf)

If the Navy continues on the [...] operations to decisively influence events ashore.







[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]