[[toc]]
=Cites= 
Aff cites: maddigonzalez@gmail.com
Neg cites: miranda.ryshawy3@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 
==1AC== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan: The United States Federal Government should develop and demonstrate inflatable space based solar power.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ADVANTAGE 1 is energy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Exhaustion of all energy resources is inevitable – only SSP can meet rising global demand</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Snead 8 – MS in Aerospace Engineering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 11-19-2008, “The End of Easy Energy and What to Do About It,”[[http://mikesnead.net/resources/spacefaring/white_paper_the_end_of_easy_energy_and_what_to_do_about_it.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">By 2100, the number of people…the dominant electrical power generation capability for the world.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A transition away from fossil fuels is inevitable but slow – US action expedites the transition globally – solves growth, climate change and raises living standards for the bottom billion</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stanislaw 8 – PhD @ Edinburgh, former Professor @ Cambridge, Former Senior Economist @ OECD</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joseph Stanislaw, “Energy In Flux: The 21st Century's Greatest Challenge,” ABA Antitrust Law, [[http://apps.americanbar.org/antitrust/at-committees/at-tei/pdf/programs/spring-08/SpringMeeting3.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tectonic forces are roiling the global …cannot afford to wait another 30 years.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SPS is competitive with fossil fuels in the near-term</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hornitschek et al 8 – Colonel in the USAF</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mike, Hornitschek, Colonel in the USAF, 2008, “Solar power from space can help keep the peace on Earth,” Ad Astra,[[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Like all species in a closed ecosystem…that calculus is about to change.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We’ll isolate two scenarios:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First is warming:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s real and human-induced</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Somerville 11 – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1n early 2007, at the …zero well within this century.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Anderegg et. al 10 – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Preliminary reviews of scientific literature …forums regarding anthropogenic climate change.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming leads to human extinction – SSP is key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hsu 10 – PhD in Engineering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It has become increasingly ….a chance to make a difference.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming is an existential risk – quickening reductions is key to avoiding extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The best estimates for …social, cultural and political changes.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario two – Resource Conflict</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Energy is the proximate cause of 21st century conflict – SPS solves great power war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dinerman 8 – DoD Consultant</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taylor Dinerman, DoD Consultant, 9-15-2008, “War, peace, and space solar power,” Space Review,[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It was a little more than a month ago when the crisis in the Caucasus erupted. It will be years before historians sort out exactly how it started, but no one can deny that it ended with a classic case of Russia using massive …routes will diminish.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Conventional renewables can’t meet rising demand</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nansen 10 – Former space engineer</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,”[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Today we face the…energy well before 2100."[2]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Resource shortages are the proximate cause of global conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nordas and Gleditsch 9 -*MA in Politics, Professor of Political Science</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ragnhild, Nils, 2009, “IPCC and the climate-conflict nexus,”[[http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/IPRI_IPCCClimateConflictNexus.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">IPCC (2001) points out …l and international security’ (p. 107).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 2 is leadership</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A fast and large US investment in SSP turns the US into a net energy exporter – that’s key to resource control</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chapman et al 11 – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Phil, March, 2011, [[http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The expected cost of deploying SBSP ….as well as petroleum.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Energy control is the only way to sustain US hegemony</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Padilla 10 – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, [[http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"We become just by …vanguard of global leadership.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leadership solves great power war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zhang and Shi 11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Currently on leave from Graduate School in Economic and Political Development, Lin Shi, MA from Columbia in International Affairs, also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This does not necessarily … devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Longitudinal empirical analysis supports our impacts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Drezner 5 – Professor of IR @ Tufts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Daily explosions in ….U.S. intervention would be equally daunting.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">On the brink of a recession – productive stimulus spending is key – resiliency doesn’t apply</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">El-Arian 11-1 - CEO and co-CIO of PIMCO</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mohamed, “Could America turn out worse than Japan?,” Money Web, [[http://www.moneyweb.co.za/mw/view/mw/en/page292681?oid=555164&sn=2009+Detail]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is time to say goodbye …should be done to minimize this risk.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The process of development creates tech spin-offs that prevent economic collapse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NSSO 7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Finding: The SBSP Study Group …by mid‐century and beyond.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Harris and Burrows 9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis”[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Of course, the report encompasses ….in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SOLVENCY</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only a large up-front federal investment and a demonstration project can jumpstart private investment for SSP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">General Electric 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">General Electric’s Technology Blog, facilitates discussions about science and technology with an eye on the future of renewable energy, transportation, infrastructure, etc., 4-4-2011, “Space Race: Will Space-Based Solar Take Off?,” [[http://www.txchnologist.com/volumes/solar-power/solar-in-space]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clean, efficient and available 24-7… get them excited about the future again.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Inflatable SPS overcomes solvency takeouts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brown 9 – Masters in Science</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review,[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The spherical concept…the medium of space.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP can be up and running within one year</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Costa, 10 - sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, [[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If we took a moment to rank every government agency… solution here on earth.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Inflatable SSP slashes costs, maximizes energy collection, and overcomes traditional barriers</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brown 9 – Masters in Science</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review,[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As such is the case, a critically sought after …in Earth orbit.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP is resilient and efficient</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reed and Willenberg 4 – *Analyst @ Welsom Space Power, PhD in Nuclear Engineering</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kevin and Harvey J., “Early commercial demonstration of space solar power using ultra-lightweight arrays,” Acta Astronautica, Volume 65, Issues 9-10, accessed on Science Direct</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Future systems will be even more...operational space environment.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP lowers launch costs</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lark 9 – Fellow of the Canadian Securities Institute, Vice-President and Investment Advisor with BMO Nesbitt Burns, one of Canada’s largest full-service investment firms, member of the Management Advisory Board for the Center for Space Power at Texas A&M University</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Eva-Jane, “POLICY AND FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS AND PROSPECTS FOR SPACE SOLAR POWER,” Silicon Valley Space Club,[[https://sites.google.com/site/siliconvalleyspaceclubsite/space-solar-power/policy-and-financial-considerations-and-prospects-for-space-solar-power]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Development of SSP …in propulsion techniques.39</span>
=Negative= 
==Disads== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP interference DA</span>=== 



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SPS leads to interference – hurts asteroid detection, leads to light pollution and collapses GPS</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Weigel 7 – Assistant Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems at the Massachusetts Institute of TechnologyAnnalisa, “Solar Power Satellites: Historical Perspectives with a Look to the Future,” November, [[http://lean.mit.edu/docman/2007-conference-papers/view-category.htmlA]] major concern about the … SPS would create light pollution.32</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Matheny 7– former associate at Oxford, MPJ from HopkinsJason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” [[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htmEven]] if extinction events are … humanity and those that threaten 100%.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-China DA]]China DA</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US-China Space Cooperation is Increasing Now</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zhang, associate professor of political science @ Lingnan University, 11 (Baohui, Asian Survey, March/April, Proquest)Christopher Griffin and …of opportunity for arms control in outer space.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan Is Perceived as Hostile by China</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Shixiu 7 - senior fellow of military theory studies and international relations at the Institute for Military Thought Studies, Academy of Military Sciences of the PLA [Bao, Winter 2007, China Security, “Emerging Threat,” [[http://www.wsichina.org/cs5_1.pdf)The]] U.S. position makes another …China and the United States.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This Hostility Spirals to a US-China War Over Taiwan</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solomone 6 (Stacey, PhD student @ the Future Studies Program @ the U of Hawaii, Journal of Contemporary China, Volume 15, Issue 47, Taylor & Francis)PLA control of the space program may …to further illegal exportation of WMD from China.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">War over Taiwan causes extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Straits Times 00</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ching Cheong, “No One Gains in War Over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis Nexis.THE high-intensity scenario …above everything else.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-Pay roll tax cuts good]]Pay roll tax cuts good</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama is aggressively pushing his jobs agenda --- smaller initiatives like the payroll tax reduction are gaining republican support and are likely to passAP 10/25 “For Obama, new focus on the piecemeal,”[[http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jBBAuCkwwz36b0l5ZSe63veDz47Q?docId=c480f4a9b7634e9f8e0fd60ddd74c5efLOS]]ANGELES (AP) — The president who ran for office promising sweeping change now finds ….affect individual communities.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">LINK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PC is key to extension</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Inquirer, 9-8-2011</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://articles.philly.com/2011-09-08/news/30130709_1_jobs-plan-american-economy-rare-taxPresident]] Obama goes into Thursday's big speech… major effort to privatize Social Security.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extension is key to preventing a recession</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zandi, Chief Economist of Moody's Analytics, 10/7, 2011,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MSNBC: Intervew With Moddy's Chief Economist Mark Zandi, MSNBCZANDI: Well, republican …quickly in the very near term.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Another recession causes complete economic collapse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Shiller 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robert J. Shiller is a professor of economics and finance at Yale and a co-founder and the chief economist of MacroMarkets LLC., NYT, 5/16/10, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/16/business/16view.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I use a definition of a double-dip …event, the Great Depression.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline causes nuclear warHarris and Burrows 9Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increased Potential for Global ConflictOf course, the report encompasses more than economics …in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-NASA trade off]]NASA trade off</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NASA’s budget levels will demand difficult choices, but the Administration is committed to Earth science programs.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Holdren 11 – Director office of Science and Tech policy</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(John, Director – Office of Science and Technology Policy, “The Budget for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy”,[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/jph-house-sst-testimony-2-17-11.pdf]], 2-17)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) This past October, the President signed the 2010 … support for the operations of the ISS.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It will take billions of dollars to develop deflection mechanisms</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Campbell 2 – Colonel USAFR</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(December, Jonathan W., “Using Lasers in Space: Laser Orbital Debris Removal and Asteroid Deflection”pg. 30)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Several schemes have …impact to be implemented.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Earth sciences solves multiple scenarios for extinction, including climate change.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Killeen 5 – Phd. , Director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Timothy, 28th April 2005, “Senate Hearing on NASA's Earth Science Program”, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=16382]]) NAR</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is clear after decades of pioneering satellite… simultaneous multiple stresses.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming leads to extinction</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The best estimates for global …cultural and political changes.</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-China cyber terror DA (v. military affs)]]China cyber terror DA (v. military affs)</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-China cyber terror DA (v. military affs)-1NC]]1NC</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">China Looking to Expand to Cyberwarfare Now But It’s Focus is Elsewhere Now</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Schroeder, department of security studies @ American Military University, 10 (David A., November, pg.[[http://das.doit.wisc.edu/amu/Schroeder_China_Cyber_NOV10.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">China is a … perhaps deserves.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">( ) Causes China to Shift to Cyberwarefare Activities</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sayers and Dressler 9 (Eric, graduate of the Political Science M.A. program at The University of Western Ontario, and Jeffrey, January 29, pg.[[http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/016/076oeyqy.asp?page=2]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Perhaps the greatest …satellite capabilities with allies.</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [[#Negative-Disads-China cyber terror DA (v. military affs)-2NC cards]]</span>==== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-orbital slots DA]]orbital slots DA</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The plan leads to conflicts over orbital slots</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wallach 10 – JD, Partner at Calfee, Halter & Griswold LLP, where he serves as Co-Chair of the Litigation Group of more than 40 attorneysMark, “Legal Issues for Space Based Solar Power,” Online Journal of Space Communication,[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/wallach.htmlAnother]] major, yet still largely … used to make those decisions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That leads to space miscalculation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Klotz 99 - Commander, Air Force Global Strike CommandFrank G. Klotz, Jan 1999, Space, Commerce, and National Security, Council on Foreign Relations, p.23-4The scramble for geosynchronous slots … infrastructure-is a case in point.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">War is space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mitchell, et al 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July,[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)A]] buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">‍</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-F35 Trade Off DA]]F35 Trade Off DA</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">( ) F-35 Survives Now But Still Vulnerable</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Burnett 11 (… Richard, Orlando Sentinel, June 27, Lexis)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Lockheed Martin Corp. F-35 road … first 32 next-generation fighter jets.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">( ) Specifically, It Trades Off with Funding for the F-35</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dinerman 6 (Taylor, February 27, The Space … , pg. [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/565/1]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s time to admit that … other mission elements are getting.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">( ) F-35 Key to US-Japan Relations</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Azuma 11 (Andrew, August 2, pg. [[http://blog/|http://blog]].… /2011/08/bolstering-japans-defenses-with-f-35s/)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This December, the Japanese Air … closer strategic and tactical cooperation.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A strong US-Japanese alliance prevents multiple nuclear wars</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Armitage 00</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard Armitage, Deputy Secretary of State, 10-11-00, [[http://www.ndu.edu/inss/press/Spelreprts/SRJAPAN.HTM]] “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, ACC: 9.11.04, p. online.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Major war in Europe is … to America’s global security strategy.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disads-Japan DA]]Japan DA</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SPS coming now – key to Japanese leadership</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Matai 10 – PhD in Engineering, won The Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the category of Innovation for Bespoke Security Architecture in 2003, authority on countering complex global threats; strategic risk management & visualisation; contingency planning; Information Operations (IO); electronic defence; biometric authentication; secure payment systems and Open Source hardened kernel solutionsDK, 6-13-2010, “Japan Takes Lead in Wireless Power? 21stC Global Energy Supply,” Asymmetric Threats Contingency Alliance,[[http://www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/frameset.php?pageid=http%3Awww.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/press/130610.php|http://www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/frameset.php?pageid=http%3A]]www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/press/130610.php In the footsteps of Nikola Tesla, Japan intends to send …final frontier in the 21st century and beyond!</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Weather monitoring requires GEO because the satellites stay over one part of the earth</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GIS Lab 8“Natural Hazards: Remote Sensing,” Remote Sensing, [[http://www.gis.unbc.ca/resources/geog100.phpEarth]] monitoring satellites have one …weather satellites(such as NIMBUS and GOES). Altitude ~ 36,000kmThat’s an opportunity cost// with SPSPC 5Political Calculations, 6-29-2005, “Power from Space,” [[http://politicalcalculations.blogspot.com/2005/06/power-from-space.htmlSecond]], the opportunity cost…generating power from space.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Japanese leadership is key to Asian multilateralism</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hsiao and Yang 9 - * Ph.D., is the Executive Director of the Center for Asia-Pacific Area Studies (CAPAS), and Research Fellow at the Institute of Sociology, both at Academia Sinica, Taiwan, Ph.D., is the Postdoctoral Fellow of the Center for Asia-Pacific Area Studies (CAPAS) at Academia Sinica, Taiwan. His areas of specialization include international relations theory, Asia-Pacific regionalism and ASEANMichael and Alan, “Soft Power Politics in the Asia Pacific: Chinese and Japanese Quests for Regional Leadership,” The Asia-Pacific Journal: Japan Focus, [[http://www.japanfocus.org/-A_-Yang/3054Another]] dimension of Japan’s soft power strategy towards ASEAN …Japan and corroborate the efficacy of Tokyo’s soft power diplomacy.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That solves Asian territorial conflict</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nanto 8 – Industry and Trade Foreign Affairs SpecialistSpecialist in Industry and Trade Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division for Congressional Research Services, East Asian Regional Architecture: New Economic and Security Arrangements and U.S. Policy,” www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33653.pdfA stronger regional security organization in East Asia… haunt policy makers in Asian countries.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Chakraborty 10United Service Institution of India“The Initiation & Outlook of ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting (ADMM) Plus Eight,”[[http://www.usiofindia.org/Article/?pub=Strategic%20Perspective&pubno=20&ano=739The]] first ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting Plus Eight (…possibility of turning into a nuclear conflict.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Counterplans</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stratosphere CP</span>=== 

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-Stratosphere CP-1NC]]1NC</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should deploy and maintain constellations of stratospheric balloon platform satellites for climate monitoring.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stratospheric balloons dedicated to Earth Science observation solves the aff -- the technology exists – a constellation of StratoSats solves better faster and cheaper</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pankine et al 2009</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“STRATOSPHERIC SATELLITES FOR EARTH OBSERVATIONS” American Meteorological Society[[http://journals.ametsoc.org/doi/pdf/10.1175/2009BAMS2624.1]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Alexey Pankine, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California and Global Aerospace Corporation, Altadena, California Zhanqing Li, University of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David Parson, UCAR, Boulder, Colorado Michael Purucker, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Elliot Weinstock, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts Warren Wiscombe, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland and Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, D.C. And Kerry Nock, Global Aerospace Corporation, Altadena, California]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">At present, no investment is being …dimly perceived are certain to emerge.</span>




===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Privatization CP</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Text: The United States federal government should grant a 25 year tax exemption to the first private entity that substantially increases the United States’ civil space situational awareness and establish a spectrum policy that supports property rights and individual and corporate rights in space.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Twenty five year tax exemption solves innovation and is the BEST way to spur private development.Hudgins 2004 (Edward, formerly director of regulatory studies for the Cato Institute and editor of Regulation magazine, is an expert on the regulation of space and transportation, pharmaceuticals, and labor. He served as a senior economist for the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress and was both deputy director for economic policy studies and director of the Center for International Economic Growth at the Heritage Foundation, “return to the moon? Not with this NASA,” The Atlas Society, [[http://www.atlassociety.org/return-moon-not-nasa)Or]] consider a radical approach …us a truly space-faring civilization.</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-visas CP]]visas CP</span>=== 



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should provide employment-based visas to graduates who earn a Masters or PhD degree from an accredited U.S. university in a science, technology, engineering or math field of study.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Counterplan solves – matching green cards with diplomas restores innovation, growth, and leadershipFrank, 09 (T.A, Irvine Fellow at the New America Foundation and an editor of theWashington Monthly, Green Cards for Grads, Washington Monthly, May/June 2009,[[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/features/2009/0905.frank.html)For]] years, the United States effortlessly … for soldiers. It’s to avoid getting one’s ass kicked.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Retaining Foreign student is key to science leadership</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CFR, 09 (Council on Foreign Relations, Broken Immigration System Risks Serious Damage to U.S. National Interests, Warns CFR Task Force, July 8, 2009,[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/19743/broken_immigration_system_risks_serious_damage_to_us_national_interests_warns_cfr_task_force.html)-Attracting]] skilled immigrants:The United States … bolster U.S. military capabilities.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">‍</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-Russia CP v. asteroids]]Russia CP</span>=== 



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Text: The government of the Russian Federation should substantially increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects. The government of the Russian Federation will share technological and research capabilities with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration on asteroid detection. The government of the Russian Federation will build geographically analogous research sites to the Arecibo and Goldstone telescopes.</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Russian space program can deflect asteroids</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">RUSSIAN PRESS DIGEST 2010 (RusData Line, “Russia is developing equipment for exploration of a potentially dangerous asteroid,” May 19)</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-elections CP v. Obama election good advantage]]Elections CP</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Republican Party should nominate Andy Martin for the 2012 presidential election.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">He’s unelectable – ensures an Obama win</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AZ Marijuana, 12-6-2011, “Republican Candidates’ Views on Marijuana,” [[http://azmarijuana.com/dans-stash/republican-candidates-views-marijuana/]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Martin not only supports …the most unelectable GOP candidate.</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-DSCVR CP v. solar sails]]DSCVR CP </span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should upgrade the Deep Space Climate Observatory to include earth-monitoring and climate measurements and accept Ukraine’s offer to launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory to monitor space weather and warn of solar storms from the L1 libration point.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The counterplan is key to early detection of major solar storms coming in 2013- failure to act now destroys the power grid, air travel, and satellite operations</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spaceflight Now 11 (Feb 21 “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission” [[http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The White House … solar maximum in 2013.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kritiks</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Exceptionalism K</span>=== 





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The affirmative’s unilateral approach to space reifies exceptionalism –</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Billings 7 – Professor @ GWU</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Linda, “Societal Impact of Space Flight,” p. 483-484</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The ideas of frontier pioneering, continual …is the act of arguing in favor of a cause, idea, or policy.</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The impact is extinction</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Smith 3 – Professor of Political Science @ Penn</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rogers, Professor of Political Science at University of Pennsylvania and PhD Harvard University, “Stories Of Peoplehood, The Politics and Morals of Political Membership”, p. 166-169</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is certainly important to oppose …William Connolly, and Jurgen Habermas all envision.</span>







<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s nationalistic representations – this is a pre-requisite</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Billings 6 – Professor @ GWU in Media and Public Affiars</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Linda, “To the Moon, Mars, and Beyond: Culture, Law and Ethics in Space-Faring Societies,” 2-3-2006,[[http://lindabillings.org/lb_papers/space_law_ethics_culture.pdf]]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Facing an opportunity to…, why we should be going into space.</span>











<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The role of the ballot is to investigate methodology before policy recommendations – rejecting nationalism creates an accurate research agenda that advances shared human interest</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Beck and Szaider 6 – Professor of Sociology, Professor @ Tel Aviv</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ulrich, Professor for Sociology at the University of Munich, Natan, Professor at The Academic College of Tel Aviv Yaffo “Unpacking cosmopolitanism for the social sciences: a research agenda” The British Journal of Sociology, 5.1,[[http://www.promusica.se/Library/Electronic%20texts/Beck_Sznaider2006.pdf]]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Methodological nationalism takes the following ….want to avoid becoming a museum of antiquated ideas.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Topicality</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"Its" v. private contracts aff</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Interpretation</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Its” is possessive.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">English Grammar 5 (Glossary of English Grammar Terms, [[http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mine, yours, his, hers, its, ours, theirs are the possessive pronouns used to substitute a noun and to show possession or ownership. EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Violation- the plan increases the ability of private companies to develop space- that’s distinct from federally owned projects</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. It’s a voting issue-</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. Limits—allowing private companies explodes the topic- infinite possibilities for extension of legal frameworks into space means that we would need to prep out case negs to each different legal chance-</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Ground—All core DA links are based off direct increases in exploration and development.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. The aff is FX T—it doesn’t fiat anything going into space: their advantages are based off of effects that the plan would have, not the action of the plan itself.</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]