[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==**Whitey on the Moon 1AC**== 
**Ayaan/Mya read a personal narrative. It varies by tournament.**

**A rat done bit my sister Nell.**
**(with Whitey on the moon)**
**Her face and arms began to swell.**
**(and Whitey's on the moon)**
**I can't pay no doctor bill.**
**(but Whitey's on the moon)**
**Ten years from now I'll be payin' still.**
**(while Whitey's on the moon)**
**The man jus' upped my rent las' night.**
**('cause Whitey's on the moon)**
**No hot water, no toilets, no lights.**
**(but Whitey's on the moon)**
**I wonder why he's uppi' me?**
**('cause Whitey's on the moon?)**
**I wuz already payin' 'im fifty a week.**
**(with Whitey on the moon)**
**Taxes takin' my whole damn check,**
**Junkies makin' me a nervous wreck,**
**The price of food is goin' up,**
**An' as if all that shit wuzn't enough:**
**A rat done bit my sister Nell.**
**(with Whitey on the moon)**
**Her face an' arm began to swell.**
**(but Whitey's on the moon)**
**Was all that money I made las' year**
**(for Whitey on the moon?)**
**How come there ain't no money here?**
**(Hmm! Whitey's on the moon)**
**Y'know I jus' 'bout had my fill**
**(of Whitey on the moon)**
**I think I'll sen' these doctor bills,**
**Airmail special**
**(to Whitey on the moon)**

**Gil Scott Heron’s 1970 Lyrics to Whitey on the Moon Reveal a Society Radically Out of Touch With The Experiences of the Excluded, the Least Privileged, in Our Own Country and the Rest of the World—The “Giant Leap for [Hu]man Kind” May as Well Have Been to Plymouth Rock as the Moon, Since Either Way, They “Landed on Us.” Societal Good is Not a Neutral Concept, But One Explicitly Shaped By the Experience of White Privilege**

**Everyday I see People Like Me Struggling to Financially Support Themselves. We Struggle Everyday To Pay Bills, Pay for Transportation and Pay For Resources Needed, While the United States Federal Government Insists on Investing in Space Programs. This Work Hurts Me Personally—I Think to Myself “Does the Government Think That Continuing Science Programs is a Top Priority?” What About Me? What About My Family? What About the Million of Minorities Struggling, Dying and Hurting.**
**Government Continues to Get Distracted, They Always Want to Work On Advancements in Technology, But That is Not the Key Issue. I Take it As an Insult When These Advancements Take Priority Over Helping Actual Human Beings Who Face Immediate Obstacles Everyday.**

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**These Programs Continue a Tradition of Eurocentrism Which Fundamentally Neglects the Positioning of the Black Body—They Assume an Impossibly Colorblind World and Marginalize the Oppressive History of Space Exploration**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Bloud 07 ’</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">(Mark Bould, Science Fiction Studies, Vol. 34, No. 2, Afrofuturism (Jul., 2007), pp. 177-186, Reader in Film and Literature at the University of the West of England, UK)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">From the 1950s onwards ... and the desegregation of Little Rock (1957).</span>

**The Apocalypse isn’t To Come—For the Vast Majority of the World, Poverty, War, Genocide, Environmental Destruction and Violence are an Everyday Reality, Not the Result of Your Convoluded Disads—We Have to Abandon the Belief in Utopia in Favor of the Chaos Embodied by the 1AC**
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Galli 09** (Galli, Chuck, "Hip-Hop Futurism: Remixing Afrofuturism and the Hermeneutics of Identity" (2009). Honors Projects Overview. [[http://digitalcommons.ric.edu/honors_projects/18]].)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Gilroy contends that ... sufficient groundwork for the introduction and exploration of hip-hop futurism. </span>

**We Believe This Debate Should be About the Evaluation of Resistance to White Privilege. The 1AC is a Confrontation With this Question, Intellectually, Emotionally, Logically and Performatively—We Affirm That the Judge Should Vote Affirmative to Expose the Areas, Both in Relationship With the Debate World and the Politics of Space Exploration—Wherein the Ideology of Whiteness Attempts to Ensure its Own Naturalness and Inevitability at the Expense of Black Perspectives.**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Judge as an Intellectual Must be Attentive to the Function of Whitness as an Ideology, Both Within Politics and the Space of Debate Itself—The Practices of Traditional Policy Debate Encourage An Absence of Identity and Performance and Discourages Participation by Those Not Traditionally Privileged Within the Domain of Debate—Pretending to be a Neutral or Objective Stance, this Ideology Uses Rules Based Approaches to Exclude New Forms of Knowledge Production</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Reid-Brinkley 08** (Shanara Rose Reid-Brinkley, Assistant Professor of African American Studies and Communications as well as the Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, “THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE,” 2008. [[http://www.comm.pitt.edu/faculty/documents/reid-brinkley_shanara_r_200805_phd.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">To begin an investigation of these questions ... style as a strategic and rhetorical engagement with contemporary racism in America.</span>

**Our discussion of the discursive constructions that make racial domination possible is key to stop it and spills over into the broader educational space. The racist disciplinary power of the debate community that marginalizes blackness can only be sustained and instituted by those within it—we all must say NO MORE and shed the chains of exclusionary white oppression.**
<span style="font-size: 13px;"><span class="CiteChar">**Reid-Brinkley 08**</span> (Shanara Rose Reid-Brinkley, Assistant Professor of African American Studies and Communications as well as the Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, “THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE,” 2008. <span style="font-size: 13px;">http://www.comm.pitt.edu/faculty/documents/reid-brinkley_shanara_r_200805_phd.pdf)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">The attempts at educational reform are ... surrounding education reform may function to discipline its differently situated stakeholders. </span>

===2AC AT: Framework=== 
**Your Enforcement of Rules and Norms Links to the 1AC—the Desire to Limit Forms of Expression is Associated With the Demonization of the Black Body—Our Challenges to the Form and Function of Traditional Debate are Crucial to Present a Competent Challenge to Whiteness Perkinson, Associate Professor of Philosophy and Religious Studies at Marygrove College and of Social Ethics at Ecumenical Theological**
**Seminary, 2005** [James W., Shamanism, racism and hip hop culture (pg. 120-122)] 
In the face of such an invaded ... that gives whiteness a certain common character.

**The Problems of Racial and Class Violence in the Status Quo are Disads to Your Limits Argument—The Desire to Limit Thought is the Same as the Attempt to Curtail Argumentation, Which Can Ultimately Only Produce Violence—Voting Affirmative is Crucial to Creating New Intellectual Avenues to Challenge Oppression**
**Bleiker and Leet 6** (Roland, prof of International Relations @ U of Queensland, Brisbane, and Martin, Senior Research Officer with the Brisbane Institute, Millennium: Journal of International Studies, 34(3), p. 733-734)
A subliminal orientation is attentive ... a ‘horizontal’ movement into the unknown.

**Switch Sides Debate is Fundamentally Unethical—We Should Conceptualize a Public Utterance as a Commitment—Your Stance Results in the Destruction of Communication as a Value, Leads to a Lack of Commitment, Understanding and Effective Policy Making—Turns All Your Impacts**
Ronald **Green and** Darrin **Hicks**, Professors of Communication at the University of Minnesota and the University of Denver in 20**05** (Cultural Studies, Vol. 19, No. 1, pp. 100-126, “Lost Convictions: Debating both sides and the ethical self-fashioning of liberal citizens”, January 2005)
In the midst of Joseph McCarthy’s ... power rather than the method of democracy
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]