[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

O1 - The resolution questions whether //humans// ought recognize the rights of other animals.
O2 - humans and animals do not necessarily have to have equally valued rights, and some rights can be overridden.

V: Justice

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Science dictates that, because systems operate different than the whole of their parts, we cannot view individuals as distinct parts. Joanna Macy,</span>
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Joanna Macy [teacher, scholar, activist in civil rights and peace movements], </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">“</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Working Through Environmental Despair,</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Ecosychology. 1995.</span>//

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">People will never be happy so long as we view the world as ours. Hinchman,</span>

//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lewis **Hinchman** and Sandra Hinchman, “’Deep Ecology’ and the Revival of Natural Right,” The Western Political Quarterly, Vol. 42, No. 3. University of Utah. Jstor. Sept, 1989.</span>//


VC: **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">recognizing interrelated ecology</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">, as the organizing principle of the natural world. In order to uphold a systems view of the world, as opposed to an egotistical mindset, we must respect nature</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;">’</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">s intrinsic value as a whole system. </span>

1. Our insensitivity toward nature is a direct result of our failure to view the world as one interrelated system. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Such failure will result in human and ecological disaster from global warming. A Commission on Global Health, headed by Anthony Castello in 2009, summarizes the catastrophic implications,</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Lancet and University College London Institute for Global Health Commission, headed by Anthony Castello, “Managing the health effects of climate change.” Lancet, Vol 373, May 16, 2009.</span>//

2. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Human life takes meaning from our place in the larger ecology. Carolyn Merchant,</span>

//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carolyn Merchant, “The Death of Nature,” in Michael Zimmerman’s __Environmental Philosophy.__ Prentice-Hall, Inc. 2001.</span>//



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention one, because humans are an equal part of the natural system, we ought not always and unconditionally value ourselves above other animals. Hinchman 3 explains how we can only respect our place in the natural system by identifying nature as an extension of us.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Furthermore, value exists in animals place in the natural system and are not dependent on human interests. Hinchman 4,</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention two, value hierarchies that place certain beings above others are non-sensical in interconnected ecosystems. Human sentience is irrelevant to moral claims, due to the natural intrinsic worth of life. David Keller,</span>

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">David Keller, “Gleaning Lessons from Deep Ecology,” Ethics and the Environment, Indiana University Press. Autumn 1997, Jstor.</span>//
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Furthermore, animals do not have lower sentience than us but rather possess different types of equally valuable knowledge.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rather than obsessing with issues of intellect, holism justifies a leveling of hierarchies in the natural world. Merchant 2:</span>


==Negative== 
RATIONALITY NEG

V: Justice

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">We should base ethics on the principles of **constructivism** </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;">–</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> morality is not contingent on physical facts, but on our construction of reality. Glasersfeld,</span>

//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ernst von Glasersfeld [philosopher, Emeritus Professor of Psychology at Univ Georgia], “An Introduction to Radical Constructivism,” Originally Published in P. Watzlawick (Ed.).</span>//

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Morality is created from the core concept of rationality. Watkins and Fitzpatrick explain how rationality is fundamental to our own value:</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Eric Watkins and William Fitzpatrick [in respective order: Department of Philosophy, University of California, San Diego; Department of Philosophy, Virginia Tech]. __O’Neill and Korsgaard on the Construction of Normativity__ . The Journal of Value Inquiry **36**: 349–367, 2002. 2002 Kluwer Academic Publishers. Printed in the Netherlands. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.springerlink.com/content/4b9e64tdfr1nh9x7/fulltext.pdf]]</span>

Watkins and Fitzpatrick 2 explains how this generates obligations to other rational agents.

VC: respecting rational agency


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">I contend that animals lack the rational agency necessary for moral recognition. </span>Christine Korsgaard compares the mental states of non-humans as opposed to humans,
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Christine Korsgaard [Harvard PhD, philosopher and professor], “The Activity of Reason,” Harvard University.</span>//


The ability to of humans to formulate language validates this point. Nordin,
//Ingemar Nordin, 2001 ANIMALS DON’T HAVE RIGHTS: A PHILOSOPHICAL STUDY, Libertarian Alliance, Philosophical Notes No. 62,//

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Only by being capable of formulating moral maxims can we understand, follow, and thus be a part of moral codes. Carl Cohen explains how this is a uniquely human capability,</span>
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carl Cohen, __The Animal Rights Debate.__ Rowman & Littlefield Publisher, Inc. 2001.</span>//





DISEASE DA

__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">A. Link:</span>__
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">By defending animal rights, the affirmative prevents us from using animals for medical testing.</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">1. The resolution specifies that the affirmative defends the inclusion of animal //rights//. This particular advocacy demands that we no longer use animals for our own benefits. </span>Doris Lin,
//Doris Lin [animal rights attorney, vice president of legal affairs for the bear education and resource group], “Animal Rights v. Animal Welfare,” About.com.//

2. Animal rights would trump human interests. Carl Cohen explains,
//Carl Cohen, __The Animal Rights Debate.__ Rowman & Littlefield Publisher, Inc. 2001.//

__B. Impacts:__
Animals are critical in the development of vaccines and drugs that save countless lives across the globe. Cohen 2,

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">More specifically, a suitable vaccine must be tested and developed for malaria. Cohen 3,</span>


<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">We need to use animals because it would be impossible to recruit human test subjects. </span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]