[[toc]]
=Disads= 
==SKFTA DA== 
===1NC=== 
**<Uniqueness>.**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Increasing funding for NASA’s missions hurts Obama – it’s seen as unsustainable and too expensive.</span>**
Handberg 2011, (Roger, Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida. “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy.” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1//\
If one conceptualizes Apollo as the example par ....outward beyond the Moon and into the solar system

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Korean FTA key to solve protectionism – spills over globally</span>**
New York Times, 11/7/10, “South Korea Is a Start”, http://www.uskoreafta.org/news/south-korea-start-new-york-times {jchen}
With protectionist policies gaining dangerous traction everywhere, ....recover, it needs an open trading system.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nuclear war</span>**
Michael Spicer, Member of the British Parliament in the House of Commons, 1996, The Challenge from the East and the Rebirth of the West, p. 121
The choice facing the West today is much ....be at a premium in the years ahead.

==Earth Science Trade-Off DA== 
===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1NC</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NASA’s scientific program budget is funded but tight - there is not a lot of money available</span>**
Jean-Louis Santini<span style="color: black;">, </span>Sciences correspondent at <span style="text-decoration: none;">Agence France Presse</span>, Febuary 14, 2011, “Obama: Five-year freeze on NASA budget”,
http://www.physorg.com/news/2011-02-obama-five-year-nasa.html
US President Barack Obama unveils his 2012 budget ....the system nor when it will be operational.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Plan forces NASA to cut other programs to compensate for the mandated program</span>**
Amy Svitak, staff writer for space news, March 4, 2011, “NASA Budget Outlook Relegates Flagship Probes to Back Burner”
http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110304-nasa-flagship-probes-back-burner.html
WASHINGTON — NASA and the science community are ....soon under the budgetary scenario NASA now faces.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NASA will cut the Earth science programs funding to finance further space exploration</span>**
Mark Whittington, writer for the Washington Post, USA Today, the LA Times, and the Houston Chronicle, March 20, 2011, “GOP Lawmakers: Cut NASA Earth Science, Fund Human Space Exploration”
http://news.yahoo.com/s/ac/20110320/sc_ac/8103220_gop_lawmakers_cut_nasa_earth_science_fund_human_space_exploration
One aspect of a drive for an austerity ....been rolled over tend to have long memories.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Earth Science programs key to collecting information about climate change that influences our policy decisions</span>**
Brian Berger, Space news staff writer, February 19, 2007, “Scientists to NASA: Study Earth”, http://www.space.com/3486-scientists-nasa-study-earth.html Two climate scientists and a former Republican governor warned the House Science and Technology Committee Feb. 13 that the U.S. Earth-observing satellite system is in danger of collapse without a substantial and immediate reinvestment.
"At a time when the need has ....go dark with no replacements on the way.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Warming causes extinction</span>**
Deibel 7 (Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007 (Terry L., “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft” pages 397-8)
Finally, there is one major existential threat ....the continued existence of life on this planet.

==Supercommittee DA== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Supercommittee has began with high bipartisanship spirit – only by sticking to the course in the squo can a deal be hashed out.</span>**
Philip Klein, Senior Editorial Writer for the Washington Examiner, 9/8/11, http://campaign2012.washingtonexaminer.com/blogs/beltway-confidential/super-committee-opens-bipartisan-bluster JL
This morning, the "super committee" ....upcoming meetings and then adjourned until next week.

**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The only agreement out of the committee thus far has been wringing agency budgets dry – plan is an obvious reversal that sparks conflict.</span></span>**
Andrew Taylor, Staff at Bloomber Business Week, 9/13/11 “Obama's jobs plan complicates task of debt panel”
http://www.businessweek.com/ap/financialnews/D9PNNQG81.htm JL
"Despite the president's calls to pass this ....combined higher tax revenues with sharper spending cuts.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Committee’s success is hanging only on the current perception of trust – partisanship or an excuse to bicker kills a successful agreement.</span>**
Richard Wolf, Staff at USA Today, 9/14/11 “Debt panel says more than finances at stake” http://tucsoncitizen.com/usa-today-
news/2011/09/14/debt-panel-says-more-than-finances-at-stake/ JL
“For the sake of the country, ....progress after 2½ years of partisan bickering.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Supercommittee failure triggers massive DoD and military spending – this the key internal link to heg.</span>**
Will Marshall and Jim Arkedis, The Detroit News, 08/25/’11, [Military cuts not only budget fix,
http://www.detnews.com/article/20110825/OPINION01/108250361/1008/opinion01/Military-cuts-not-only-budget-fix]
Recently, Republican and Democratic leaders of Congress ....courageous enough to tackle the deficit's bigger causes.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
Khalilzad, Rand Corporation95(Zalmay Khalilzad, Spring 1995. RAND Corporation. “Losing the Moment?” The Washington Quarterly 18.2, Lexis.)
Under the third option, the United States ....bipolar or a multipolar balance of power system.

==JWST Trade-Off DA== 
===1NC=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NASA’s budget is tight, there is not a lot of money available</span>**
Jean-Louis Santini<span style="color: black;">, </span>Sciences correspondent at <span style="text-decoration: none;">Agence France Presse</span>, Febuary 14, 2011, “Obama: Five-year freeze on NASA budget”,
http://www.physorg.com/news/2011-02-obama-five-year-nasa.html
US President Barack Obama unveils his 2012 budget ....<span style="color: black;">the system nor when it will be operational.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Plan forces NASA to cut other programs to compensate for the mandated program</span>**
Amy Svitak, staff writer for space news, March 4, 2011, “NASA Budget Outlook Relegates Flagship Probes to Back Burner”
http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110304-nasa-flagship-probes-back-burner.html
WASHINGTON — NASA and the science community are ....soon under the budgetary scenario NASA now faces.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The James Webb Space telescope will be cut if NASA redirects funding.</span>**
John Kelly, space industry columnist, June 5, 2011, “Telescope debacle devours NASA funds”
http://www.floridatoday.com/article/20110605/NEWS01/110604013/Telescope-debacle-devours-NASA-funds
NASA’s next great space telescope will costtaxpayers....too many to meet the budget or schedule.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">JWST key to find habitable zones with physical and chemical properties similar to Earth – this spurs colonization</span>**
Jonathan P. Gardner,Deputy Senior Project Scientist James Webb Space Telescope<span style="color: black;">, </span>2006,<span style="color: black;"> “</span>SPACE SCIENCE REVIEWSVolume 123, Number 4, The James Webb Space Telescope”, http://scholar.google.com/scholar
?q=james+webb+telescope&hl=en&btnG=Search&as_sdt=1%2C30&as_sdtp=on
The James Webb Space Telescope(JWST; ....for the origins of life in those systems.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Colonizing space key to preserving the human race.</span>**
Jason G.Matheny<span style="color: black;">, </span>Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, 2007<span style="color: black;">, “</span>Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction”, http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm
We have some influence over how long we ....seems unlikely that humanity will live so long.

===2NC Will Trade Off=== 
====Generic==== 
**The James Webb Space telescope will be cut if NASA redirects funding.**
John Kelly, space industry columnist, June 5, 2011, “Telescope debacle devours NASA funds”,
http://www.floridatoday.com/article/20110605/NEWS01/110604013/Telescope-debacle-devours-NASA-funds
NASA’s next great space telescope will costtaxpayers....too many to meet the budget or schedule.

====SPS==== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">No funding for NASA means SPS trades off with other programs.- PREFER OUR SPECIFIC EVIDENCE</span>**
<span style="color: black;">George I. </span>Seffers<span style="color: black;">, </span>representative from Northrop Grumman and an internal communications specialist with Raytheon Technical Services Company, Dec. 2010, “Space-Based Solar Power Comes Closer to Reality”, http://www.afcea.org/signal/articles/anmviewer.asp?
a=2461&print=yes
The decades-long dream of harnessing the ....in space using traditional, proven docking methods.
=== === 

==Jobs Elections DA== 
===1NC=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama pushing hard for pieces of the jobs bill now – he might not get all of it but plenty of compromises are on the horizon if there aren’t new spending battles like the plan</span>**
Chris Good, 10/13/2011, associate editor at The Atlantic, “A Million Little Pieces: Obama’s Jobs Bill is on Hold in the Senate,” The Atlantic
Is it dead? Will some of it ....indications on the future of the president's plan.
President Obama's jobs bill failed in the Senate ....that involve significant concessions from his own party.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">That’s key to Obama’s re-election</span>**
Andy Sullivan & Alister Bull, 10/12/2011, “Update 1-Obama, Democrats turn up heat on Republicans over jobs,” Reuters
WASHINGTON, Oct 12 (Reuters) - ....could create additional headwinds for the struggling economy.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">GOP president means repeal of Obamacare - destroys the health insurance industry and future economic priorities, quickly inciting partisanship that will gridlock his entire presidency </span>**
New York Magazine, 10/12/2011, “Will Romney be able to carry out his promise to screw the uninsured?” News and Features
http://nymag.com/daily/....able_to_carry_o.html
The most significant long-term outcome of ....probably ending any hope of further bipartisan cooperation.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economic collapse causes nuclear war.</span>**
Mead 2009. Walter Russell Mead, the ....4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2
Crisis can alsostrengthen the hand of religious ....track, we may still have to fight.

===2NC Uniqueness Wall=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama will be able to get parts of the jobs bill through- congress approved it</span>**
David Espo, special correspondent, 10-20-2011, “Analysis: Yes, parts of the jobs bill will pass”,
[[http://www.seattlepi.com/news/article/Analysis-Yes-parts-of-the-jobs-bill-will-pass-2226479.php]] [RR]
WASHINGTON (AP) — Congress will almost ....billion provision, couldpass, as well.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Individual parts of the bill have a good chance of passage – key to stimulate the economy</span>**
Tom Troy, 10/13/2011, “commerce leader touts jobs bill in toledo visit,” Toledo Blade
Refusing to give up on President Obama's American ....ofthat are just huge," she said.

===2NC Obama Will Win=== 

**Polls are wrong - Obama will win but election will be close**
Matthew Lynch, Huffington Post staff writer, 10/11/11 [“Forget Polls; Here is Why Obama Will Win in 2012”,
[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/matthew-lynch-edd/obama-2012-election_b_1001014.html]]] RY
A recent poll from McClatchy/Marist shows ....we prefer divided government because it facilitates compromise.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama will win despite polls</span>**
Catholic Online, News Consortium, 10/11/11 [“Obama has a big secret edge in 2012”, [[http://www.catholic.org/technology/story.php?id=43185]]] RY
The secret behind Obama's growing success is their ....great they feel their vision for America is.

===2NC Impact- Disease=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Increasing access to health care is key to staving off impacts from pandemics</span>**
Wald 9<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (</span>Priscilla Wald, teach in the English Department at Duke University, Pandemics Call for a Focus on Global Poverty, May 1,
http://news.duke.edu/2009/05/wald_oped.html, Heath)
In the midst of a threat of pandemic....; overcrowded living quarters are a microbe’s haven.

===2NC Impact- Rape=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jobs key to maintaining the police department- stops rapes and crimes</span>**
Glynnis MacNicol, staff writer, 10-21-2011, “DON'T SCREW WITH ME: Joe Biden Says If Jobs Bill Isn't Passed Rapes And Murders Will Go Up”, [[http://www.businessinsider.com/joe-biden-rape-jobs-bill-2011-10]] [RR]
Vice President Joe Biden is in some hot ....). But Biden is sticking by his remarks.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Moral side constraint</span>**
Sylvester **Petro**, Wake Forest Professor, 1974**,** Toledo law review pg. 480
However, one may still insist, echoing ....be emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit.

==China Relations DA== 
===1NC=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Good relations now - The current Obama policy will cause multilateralism in space </span>**
Zhang 11PH.D. From the University of Texas [Spring 2011. “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship.” The
Prospects of Arms Control. Accessed 7/12/11. //TD]
Indeed, in February 2008 China and Russia ...race, and realization of permanent peace.58

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Unilateral increases in space exploration and development like the plan disrupt the balance in space relations between China and the US, causing China to seek aggressive militarization of space </span>**
Su, Xiao Jiaotong University, 2010, Jinyuan Su, Space Policy, The Silk Road Institute of International and Comparative Law, School of Law,
Xi'an Jiaotong University, August 2010, sciencedirect, accessed 6/27 ST)
The illegality and ineffectiveness of space....faulty spy satellite on 20 February 2008.[[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/science/article/pii/S0265964610000573#fn62|62]]

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">China space weapons causes World War III</span>**
Robb 99 Senator Charles S. Robb, Senate committees on armed services, foreign relations and intelligence, Washington Quarterly, 1999
Winter
In a second, more likely scenario, ....a future we should avoid at all costs.

==Space Policy DA (vs. K/Spanos affs)== 
===1NC=== 

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">The political sphere is transitioning towards space arms control in the status quo-debate about space policy and its relationship to security institutions is key to educate policymakers about the dangers of space weaponization and delegitimize the right</span>**
<span style="color: black;">Max M. Mutschler, doctoral candidate in social sciences at the University of Tübingen, Germany. He holds a M.A. in political science and history from the University of Tübingen where he worked as a lecturer and research associate from 2007 to 2009. For his current research on arms control in space, he was awarded a dissertation fellowship by the Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, Sep. 20**10** [ “Preventive Arms Control in Space: Breaking the Deadlock,” Paper presented at ECPR-SGIR 7th Pan-European International Relations Conference, Stockholm 9-11, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://stockholm.sgir.eu/uploads/Mutschler_SGIR2010_Arms_Control_in_Space.pdf]]</span>]</span>
How can epistemic communities carry out their role ....would be an important factor in this regard.

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Link- the affirmative’s refusal to engage in the political sphere cedes politics to the right</span>**
<span style="color: black;">Carl Boggs, Professor of Social Sciences at National University in Los Angeles, 1997 [“The great retreat: Decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America,” Theory and Society, Volume 26, Number 6, December, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via SpringerLink, p. 773-774]</span>
<span style="color: black;">The decline of the public sphere in late ....interests that had vanished from civil society.75 </span>

**The weaponization of space reinforces biopolitics**
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jonathan Havercroft is an SDF Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the Centre of International Relations, University of British Columbia and Raymond D. Duvall's research covers international political economy, international relations, global governance, social institutions of global capitalism and international organizations. 2009 [“Critical astropolitics: the geopolitics of space control and the transformation of state sovereignty,” Securing Outer Space Eds. Natalie Bormann and Michael Sheehan, Routledge, Pp. 52-57//]</span>
<span style="color: black;">In light of Foucault's incisive analysis, focusing ....comply with the will of the imperial center.</span>

===<span style="color: black;">2NC Uniqueness</span>=== 


**Now is key to prevent space weaponization**

<span style="color: black;">Baohui Zhang, PhD and Associate Professor of Political Science and Director or the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, 3/2011 [“The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship” Asian Survey Vol. 51, No. 2, March/April 2011 pg 314-315]</span>

<span style="color: black;">Important changes in U.S. strategic ....forging security cooperation with the U.S. </span>

===2NC Link=== 

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Antipolitics- Political engagement is key to create informed epistemic communities that challenge power structures. Prefer the link- empirically proven by Cold War the only reason war de-escalated was due to scientific engagement that proved nuclear war was unsurvivable. That’s Mutschler. The affirmatives refusal to engage in the political process allows a slide back to uninformed weaponization politics. Turns case- vacuum is filled by the right, not the left</span>**
<span style="color: black;">Boggs ’97 </span>(CARL BOGGS – Professor and Ph.D. Political Science, National University, Los Angeles -- Theory and Society 26: 741-780)
<span style="color: black;">Both mall culture and mass media symbolize the ....contrary, their hegemony will simply go unchallenged. </span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Isolation- Engaging in current normative frameworks is the only way to access change by appealing to political concerns. The plan delegitimizes current efforts to prevent weaponization. No risk of a link turn- theory doesn’t take root in policy</span>**
<span style="color: black;">Todd Gitlinformerly served as professor of sociology and director of the mass communications program at the University of California, Berkeley, and then a professor of culture, journalism and sociology at New York University. He is now a professor of journalism and sociology and chair of the Ph.D. program in Communications at Columbia University. He was a long-time political activist( from the Left). From the Book:</span>
<span style="color: black;"> The Intellectuals and the Flag – 2005 – available via CIAO Books – date accessed 7/17/10 –</span>
<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;"> [[http://www.ciaonet.org.proxy2.cl.msu.edu/book/git01/git01_04.pdf]]</span>
<span style="color: black;">Weak thinking on the American left is especially ....secession from the world where most people live. </span>


===AT: Space Weaponization Inevitable=== 

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Drive to weaponize space is socially constructed. Even if weaponization is inevitable in the status quo, knowledge about the dangers prevents it</span>**
<span style="color: black;">Max M. Mutschler, doctoral candidate in social sciences at the University of Tübingen, Germany. He holds a M.A. in political science and history from the University of Tübingen where he worked as a lecturer and research associate from 2007 to 2009. For his current research on arms control in space, he was awarded a dissertation fellowship by the Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, Sep. 2010 [ “Preventive Arms Control in Space: Breaking the Deadlock,” Paper presented at ECPR-SGIR 7th Pan-European International Relations Conference, Stockholm 9-11, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://stockholm.sgir.eu/uploads/Mutschler_SGIR2010_Arms_Control_in_Space.pdf]]</span>]</span>
<span style="color: black;">Why did the United States not make a ....belief that climate change is man-made.</span>

**The direction of the status quo solves- verification and development time will check weaponization and ensure cooperation is in best interest. Plan’s ceding of politics triggers a single shot prisoner dilemma making weaponization possible**
<span style="color: black;">Max M. Mutschler, doctoral candidate in social sciences at the University of Tübingen, Germany. He holds a M.A. in political science and history from the University of Tübingen where he worked as a lecturer and research associate from 2007 to 2009. For his current research on arms control in space, he was awarded a dissertation fellowship by the Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, Sep. 2010 [ “Preventive Arms Control in Space: Breaking the Deadlock,” Paper presented at ECPR-SGIR 7th Pan-European International Relations Conference, Stockholm 9-11, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://stockholm.sgir.eu/uploads/Mutschler_SGIR2010_Arms_Control_in_Space.pdf]]</span>]</span>
<span style="color: black;">Up to this point, there is no ....is puzzling that we cannot observe such developments.</span>


==Payroll Tax Cuts== 
===1NC=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Extension of Pay roll tax cuts now- Obama PC key </span>**
WSJ, 11/18/11, “Obama to Visit N.H. to Take on GOP Over”, http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2011/11/18/obama-to-visit-n-h-to-take-on-gop-over-payroll-tax-break/ ZY
President Barack Obama will use a trip to ....end of the year, the official said.

**<Link>.**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Payroll tax cuts key to the economy. </span>**
<span class="cite">Carr </span>9-7-<span class="cite">11</span> – Chuck ....cms/?fa=view&id=3572
Failure <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">by Congress </span>to extend the<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> temporary </span>payroll ....at the end of 2012). [13]

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">US economic collapse would collapse the economies of other countries-ends in nuclear war </span>**
Newsflavor 9 (Newsflavor is a network of journalists that cover current events, political coverage, world news, and opinions, April 9, “Will an Economic Collapse Kill You?” [[http://newsflavor.com/opinions/will-an-economic-collapse-kill-you/]])
It may or may not sound likely to ....important issue//<span class="DebateUnderline"> facing us in the 21st century.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2NC Turns Case</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Turns case-economic growth is key to space exploration</span>**
Nader Elhefnawy is a professor at the University of Miami, 9-29-20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>8 [The Space Review [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1220/1]]]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">No less important is …</span>supplied by the UN proving overoptimistic.

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2NC Uniqueness Wall</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Will pass- republican support tentative </span>**
Reuters, 11/11/11, Top Republican opposes extending U.S. payroll tax cut, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/11/11/us-washington-summit-tax-payroll-f-idUSTRE7AA41320111111 ZY
With direct government … enacted in 2010.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Republicans will compromise- as long as no spending increases </span>**
New York News and Features,11/17/11, The GOP’s Deficit Offer Is This: Nothing, http://nymag.com/daily/intel/2011/11/gops-deficit-offer-is-this-nothing.html ZY
Now that the … in the Bush tax cuts.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Link determines direction of uniqueness—as long as Obama has capital he can get the job done. </span>**
<span class="cite">National Journal 10-20-11</span> - Whither Obama's Jobs Bill, ln
The tax credit for … could be thrown in.

==Space Debris DA== 
===1NC=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NASA is containing debris with laser systems-but avoiding further accumulation key to effectiveness</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">SAT News Daily 3-17-2011 [“NASA Laser to Remove Space Debris?” http://www.satnews.com/cgi-bin/story.cgi?number=1202250009]</span></span>
NASA<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">-affiliated </span>scientists have <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">proposed using a ....remove debris, or </span>stop creating<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> new </span>junk."

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Anything sent into space will become space junk and that will create more space junk eventually making space unusable</span>**
The Atlantic, Steve Olson, 1998 [“The Danger of Space Junk” http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/1998/07/the-danger-of-space-junk/6691/]
Everything<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that </span>human<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> being</span>s launch high enough<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> into ....</span>spewing the contents of the module into space.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space junk would hit Russian early-warning satellites making US-Russia war inevitable </span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">JefferyLewis is a Postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, July 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>4 [“What if Space were weaponized” Center for Defense Information http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]</span></span>
This is the second of two scenarios that ....that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">US-Russia war is the biggest existential threat</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Nick Bostrom has a PhD in Philosophy at Oxford 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>2 [Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span>]</span></span>
A<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> much </span>greater<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> existential </span>risk emerged with the ....would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> permanently.</span>

===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">2NC Russia War Overview</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Timeframe and probability- Russian hair trigger makes accidental launch likely- any war would mean extinction </span>**
Caldicott 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>2 (Helen, Founder of Physicians for Social Responsibility, The new nuclear danger, p. 7-12)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If launched from Russia, nuclear weapons would ....</span>satellite could actually trigger <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">annihilation of the planet.</span>

===2NC Turn- Satellites=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space environment guarantees satellites will become debris </span>**
Michael W. Taylor is a Chief of the Space and International Law Division at Headquarters United States Air Force Space Command at
Peterson Air Force Base in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Fall 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>7 [“Trashing the Solar System One Planet at a Time: Earth's Orbital Debris
Problem” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review Lexis Nexis]
2. Earth's Atmosphere. Earth's atmosphere does ....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that they do not become harmful space debris.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Debris destroys satellites which causes more debris destroying even more satellites. Eventually we can never send satellites into space.</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">David Wright is the Co-Director and senior scientist with the Global Security Program of concerned scientists in Cambridge, Massachusettes, October 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>7, [“Space Debris,” Physics Today, [[http://physicstoday.org/resource/1/phtoad/v60/i10/p35_s1?bypassSSO=1]]]</span></span>
The space age began 50 years ago with ...., March 2007, pages 29 and 100.)

===2NC Impact- Ozone=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">When space debris re-enters the atmospheres it destroys the ozone</span>**
Leonard David is a Senior Space Writer 2-2-20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>7 [“ Junk May be Harming Earth’s Atmosphere”
http://www.foxnews.com/....,2933,520661,00.html]
There is growing appreciation tha<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">t outer </span>space has ....that react directly or indirectly to consume ozone.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The ozone absorbs UV rays. Exposure to UV rays would cause extinction</span>**
Festive Earth Society 2-26-20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>8[“The Ozone Layer,” http://festiveearth.com/content/view/96/54/index.html]
The ozone<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> layer </span>is essential for<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> human </span>life...., as we know it, to exist.

===2NC Impact- EOS=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Satellites are key to detect natural disasters</span>**
Akir, is a doctoral student, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>4 [Space Security: Possible Issues & Potential Solutions, Ohio Journal of Space Communication,
http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue6/pdf/ziad.pdf.]
Besides the economic consequences, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">human lives are ....</span>it housed humans for extended periods of time.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Environmental changes will make natural disasters more severe destroying bio-diversity and ending in extinction</span>**
Austin American-Statesman 5-23-20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>2 [“An Environment Report Lists Earth's Woes” Lexis]
LONDON, May 22. - A quarter ....Siberian tiger and the Amur leopard of Asia. 

===AT: Our plan doesn't matter=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We are approaching critical mass-every instance matters</span>**
Doctorow is a former European Affairs Coordinator for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, 5-11-2011 [“Space debris to go critical, reduce all satellites to junk?” http://boingboing.net/2011/05/11/space-debris-to-go-c.html, 5/11/2011]
The amount of debris in<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>orbits used ...., just due to the traffic in space."

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space debris is self-generating-every instance matters</span>**
Robert C. Bird is an assistant professor at Seton Hall University, Spring 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>3[“PROCEDURAL CHALLENGES TO ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION OF SPACE DEBRIS” Academy of Legal Studies in Business American Business Law Journal Lexis]
The growing prevalence of space debris can inhibit ....//<span style="background-color: yellow;">actually create a debris belt around the Earth.</span>//

==Navy DA (vs. HoFlo GS)== 
===1NC=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The current fiscal environment is shaky and the navy is on the brink- perception of the air force spending money will either cause the navy to be cut or it’ll lose its tech</span>**
Daniel <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Darling</span>, international military markets analyst with Forecast International Inc, AUGUST 27, 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">10</span>, “DEFENSE SPENDING Stormy Seas
Ahead for the U.S. Navy”, http://thefastertimes.com/defensespending/2010/08/27/stormy-seas-ahead-for-the-us-navy/
First brought to Congress’ attention in February 2006....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Navy’s ability to counter China’s expanding maritime claims.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U.S. seapower solves all scenarios for nuclear war</span>**
James <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Conway et al</span>, U.S. marine corps, 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">07</span>, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,”
[[http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf]]
This strategy reaffirms the use of seapower to ....protecting friendly forces and civilian populations from attack.

==Elections DA== 
===1NC=== 

**A strong comparative economic message is the key to reelection**
Ronald <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Brownstein</span>, political director of Atlantic Media, 11-6-<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">11</span>, [“Obama's Biggest Opponent: Voters,” The Atlantic,
[[http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2011/11/obamas-biggest-opponent-voters/247979/]]] E. Liu
In most national surveys, Obama's approval rating ....populist notes he's amplified lately about economic inequality.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama’s sending a strong economic message now</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Miami Herald</span>, 10-31-<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">11</span>, [“Faced with re-election, little action in Congress, Obama acts alone,” Lesley Clark,
[[http://www.miamiherald.com/2011/10/31/2481345/faced-with-re-election-little.html]]] E. Liu We do not endorse gendered language
WASHINGTON -- Declaring that Republicans in Congress will ....laws, with the participation of the president."

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">New spending alienate crucial swing states and derails the economic push</span>**
Neil <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Snyder</span>, chaired professor emeritus at the University of Virginia, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">11-13</span>-11, [“The 2012 Presidential Election Will Be Won or Lost in the Middle,” American Thinker,
[[http://www.americanthinker.com/2011/11/the_2012_presidential_election_will_be_won_or_lost_in_the_middle.html]]] E. Liu
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The odds of</span> President <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama being re-....</span>. That's what the GOP nominee must deliver.

**<link>.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">GOP president means repeal of Obamacare - destroys the health insurance industry and future economic priorities, quickly inciting partisanship that will gridlock his entire presidency </span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">New York Magazine</span>, 10/12/<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">11</span>, “Will Romney be able to carry out his promise to screw the uninsured?” News and Features
http://nymag.com/daily/....able_to_carry_o.html
The most significant long-term outcome of ....probably ending any hope of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> further </span>bipartisan cooperation.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">US economic collapse would collapse the economies of other countries-ends in nuclear war </span>**
Newsflavor 9 (Newsflavor is a network of journalists that cover current events, political coverage, world news, and opinions, April 9, “Will an Economic Collapse Kill You?” [[http://newsflavor.com/opinions/will-an-economic-collapse-kill-you/]])
It may or may not sound likely to ....important issue<span class="DebateUnderline"> facing us in the 21st century.</span>