[[toc]]
=Aff= 
==New Advantages - 2nd Infantry Division/ new plan== 

=[[#_GoBack]]<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">1AC adv 1</span>= 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The 2nd infantry division isn’t needed in Korea anymore—withdrawal makes South Korea’s defense more effective, focused on air power – also frees up ground troops</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Baker 3</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">—**Rear Admiral, Senior Fellow at the Center for Defense Information, Distinguished Service Medal, Bronze Star**—AND—Colin Robinson, CDI Research Analyst, Master of Arts in War Studies degree from King’s College London (Stephen H., no date given but latest cited is 2003, “Stand-off with North Korea: War Scenarios and Consequences,” [[http://www.cdi.org/north-korea/north-korea-crisis.pdf]], RBatra)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Looking beyond the present crisis, it is apparent that if the current political situation between the two Koreas, it will be high time for the United States to change its forward deployed military posture. If war began tomorrow, the allied military commander in chief in Korea would be an American four-star general, despite the fact that the United States supplies only 37,000 troops to the 686,000 of the South Korea Armed Forces. **The 2nd Infantry Division, while a potent force, is now hardly needed**, with the Republic of Korea Army numbering a well-equipped 560,000. A smaller force, comprising primarily air capabilities the South mostly lacks – Special Operations forces, airborne battle management, air refueling, UAV reconnaissance – under a lower ranking officer would better suit the situation, giving South Koreans military command in a crisis. This would more appropriately address South Korea’s defensive needs, political sensibilities over command and the stationing of U.S. ground troops, and would free roughly a tenth of America’s Army fighting forces for other missions. </span></span>

**The 2ID won’t help win a war – airpower is key**
**ROK Drop** **10**—the leading military weblog out of Korea, posted by an active GI in South Korea who has commanded troops in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Korea (14 April 2010, “Debating the Future of the US Military Presence In South Korea,” [[http://rokdrop.com/2010/04/14/debating-the-future-of-the-us-military-presence-in-south-korea/]], RBatra)
The most obvious unit that I can think of that could best be used elsewhere is the remnants of the 2nd Infantry Division that remain in Korea. The division once had the mission of the being the tripwire that ensured US involvement in a 2nd Korean War. With the division scheduled to move to Camp Humphreys that will no longer be their mission, which begs the question; what is their mission then? The fire power the 2nd Infantry Division commands is miniscule compared to the size of the ROK Army; **so the division will not make any difference in the outcome of a 2nd Korean War**. What will make a difference in a 2nd Korean War is the United States’ air, naval, intel, and command & control assets. This is what needs to remain in Korea to keep a strong deterent in place to prevent any North Korean agression.

**Deterrence will fail in the status quo – risking escalation – the U.S. is perceived as risk-averse**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Stares 1/13</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">—**General** John W. Vessey **Senior Fellow for Conflict Prevention and Director of the Center for Preventive Action @ CFR, Adjunct Professor, Georgetown University, PhD** (Paul B., 13 January 2011, [[http://38north.org/2011/01/on-escalation-in-korea/]], RBatra)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Despite intermittent crises and many deadly clashes, nearly six decades have passed since the armistice agreement “ending” the Korean War was signed without there being a serious resumption of military hostilities. Though the armed standoff in Korea is hardly a desirable state of affairs, this record can be taken as a reassuring sign of its underlying stability. But how sanguine should we be that the current crisis will recede in much the same way that earlier ones have and that the deterrent relationship will hold? In fact, recent events raise some troubling questions about the volatility of the situation in Korea today.</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">First, the November 23, 2010 shelling of Yeongpyeong Island by North Korean artillery clearly caught many experts by surprise. North-South relations had been thawing after a summer of heightened tensions following the sinking of the ROK naval ship Cheonan in March. Even the revelation of new nuclear enrichment facilities immediately prior to the attack had seemed to accomplish its putative goal of convincing the outside world that North Korea could not be left to stew in its own juices and that engagement was now imperative. So why would North Korea set back its coercive diplomatic campaign by launching yet another deadly provocation that antagonized everyone—including its principal patron China—just when the wind was clearly beginning to blow in its favor? Did North Korea fail to see this or did it miscalculate the impact of its actions? Did other factors, notably the succession process underway in Pyongyang, affect the calculus or tip the scales in some decisive way?</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Second, the attack on Yeongpyeong Island was also surprising in that it targeted areas inhabited by civilians for the first time since the Korean War. This was no accident, but a carefully choreographed and well executed attack as Joe Bermudez’s excellent account of what happened indicates. Yes, the numbers killed were still less than previous incidents. And yes, one can infer that the choice of Yeongpyeong still signaled restraint by North Korea as the military base on the island had been the source of offending live fire drills and, moreover, represented an “off peninsula” target and thus less likely to trigger wider escalation. But why would North Korea decide to brazenly disregard such an established “red line,” to say nothing of a cardinal international norm, at this time? Can we infer from this a growing willingness **to breach other red lines** and engage in still more risky behavior?</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Third, **the rapid change in South Korean public opinion from being largely pacifist** and unwilling to countenance a forceful response against North Korea to the situation today where a majority now favor military retaliation if provoked has **introduced a new element into the crisis**. Tough statements by senior ROK officials—including President Lee Myung Bak—that South Korea will use force in the event of another aggressive act suggest that the days of Southern forbearance are over. This is completely understandable and, to many, a necessary prerequisite to deter future provocations. Yet, how confident can we be—especially in light of recent events—that North Korea will take the threat of South Korean retaliation seriously? Might it only goad them further? And should we worry that South Korea might take preemptive action if it had credible indications of another provocation?</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Remarkably, despite all the commentary on the current crisis, to say nothing of the obvious stakes involved, scant attention has been given to how tensions might actually escalate rather than dissipate contrary to past experience. Certainly plenty of commentators have warned about how “miscalculation,” “loss of control” and “unintended escalation” could trigger a new Korean war, but rarely beyond such broad generalizations and assertions. Conversely, those who discount the likelihood of significant escalation should the South retaliate militarily in the future have been no more forthcoming in explaining why the risk remains low other than repeating the broad conviction that it is in neither side’s interests to go to war. As we have seen in many cases, however, an expectation of rational behavior—especially for decision makers under conditions of stress and incomplete information­­—is not something that can be reliably assumed.</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The propensity of another major clash on or around the peninsula to escalate militarily depends on numerous complex factors. Understanding them may seem like an arcane or academic exercise, but it is in fact critically important to considering how best to manage the current crisis and prevent the very outcome that everyone—including presumably the North Koreans—wishes to avoid. Four interrelated variables are likely to be the critical ingredients to how another deadly clash might escalate. These can be simplified as the “who, where, what and why” factors:</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Who’s Involved: In the most recent provocations, North Korea has evidently been careful to confine their operations to South Korean targets. A future incident that either intentionally or accidentally involves U.S. forces or citizens in Korea would clearly raise the stakes. It is has been some time since this has happened and one could infer that North Korea understands that the risks have grown too high and thus they will continue to refrain from any direct or harmful interactions with the United States. The decision to carry out joint U.S.-ROK naval exercises in the vicinity of the recent provocations presumably had this in mind to help deter further attacks. Yet, how sure can we really be that North Korea would not target U.S. forces in the future? **Might they make the same calculation that the U.S. will be just as risk averse** to taking retaliatory action as the ROK has been to date? And even if they do continue to avoid provocations that may involve the U.S., how confident are we that they would know when U.S. forces or citizens are not in harm’s way? Finally, while **the involvement of the U.S. would clearly increase the risk of military escalation**, we should also not overlook the potential role of Japan. It too has been the target of past provocations and its tolerance for aggressive North Korean behavior has lessened considerably in recent years while its capacity for military retaliation has manifestly increased.</span></span>

**And, reduction in ground troops increases the role of airpower—key to effective deterrence**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Bechtol 5</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">—**BS, Excelsior College; MA, Catholic University; MMS, Marine Corps Command and Staff College; PhD, Union Institute, assistant professor of national security studies at Air Command and Staff College, worked for the Defense Intelligence Agency as the senior analyst for Northeast Asia with the Directorate for Intelligence** (Bruce E. Jr, 1 September 2005, Air & Space Power Journal, “The Future of US Airpower on the Korean Peninsula,” http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj05/fal05/bechtol.html, RBatra)</span></span>
How Will Transformation Change the Role of Airpower on the Korean Peninsula? Transformation has come to the Korean Peninsula. The Global Posture Review has prompted a major reduction in the number of ground forces in Korea, and plans call for a withdrawal of 12,500 American troops from Korea (mostly ground forces) by the end of 2008. In addition, Headquarters Command for United States Forces Korea/Combined Forces Command is scheduled to move most of its infrastructure and personnel south, to Camp Humphries (near the city of Pyongtaek) during the same time period.25 The primary American ground forces in Korea, the 2d Infantry Division, should transform into a next-generation combat unit during the summer of 2005, becoming a “unit of employment X” two years ahead of schedule.26 Furthermore, numerous command and funding issues in the ROK-US alliance will remain in flux during completion of the ongoing moves, but a discussion of those matters lies beyond the scope of this article. One must then consider the question of how all of this affects the role of airpower on the Korean Peninsula. The answer is obvious. The ROK-US alliance will now rely more than ever on the unique capabilities of US airpower to deter the North Korean threat. In fact, with all of the effort under way to reorganize US Army forces on the peninsula and move ground-combat units, headquarters facilities, and personnel south, the disposition of US Air Force units has remained relatively unchanged. Gen Leon LaPorte, commander of US Forces Korea, recently stated that the mission of our forces in Korea remains clear (despite taking on a regional role): to defend South Korea against an attack from the North. He also discussed US plans to improve combat capabilities by spending $11 billion over the next three years and to establish five or six Stryker brigades focused on the Pacific region that could deploy to Korea quickly.27 But US forces—especially airpower—remain the best way of enhancing security on the Korean Peninsula. Indeed, in 2003 former Georgetown University professor (and current senior member of the National Security Council) Victor Cha observed that **the most reasonable arrangement for the alliance would entail an increased emphasis on US naval and airpower presence with a reduction in ground forces**. We are now seeing this happen.28 Conclusions The threat from North Korea has evolved but remains no less ominous either to US interests or to those of Washington’s important allies South Korea and Japan. Because the threat and geopolitical situation in Asia have changed and, perhaps just as important, because the US military is now transforming, traditional paradigms regarding how we face threats throughout the world no longer apply in many cases—such as Korea. Although a large, forward-deployed ground presence on the Korean Peninsula may no -longer be necessary, providing military support to the ROK-US alliance remains as important as ever. In fact, the deterrence provided by a strong airpower presence continues to have an effect on our enemies, as evidenced by a manual published by the North Korean People’s Army in 2004, which warns that the United States will target North Korea’s military leadership during a time of war.29 The types of US forces that support freedom in South Korea have changed, but Washington’s commitment to the security of that country has not. For the foreseeable future, airpower will continue to play a major (and now a more prominent) role on the Korean Peninsula.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Airpower is key to the U.S.-ROK alliance and deters war on the peninsula</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Bechtol 5</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">—BS, Excelsior College; MA, Catholic University; MMS, Marine Corps Command and Staff College; PhD, Union Institute, assistant professor of national security studies at Air Command and Staff College, worked for the Defense Intelligence Agency as the senior analyst for Northeast Asia with the Directorate for Intelligence (Bruce E. Jr, 1 September 2005, Air & Space Power Journal, “The Future of US Airpower on the Korean Peninsula,” http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj05/fal05/bechtol.html, RBatra)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">US military support to the Republic of Korea (ROK) remains critical to peace and stability. The author details constraints faced by the army of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) in any attempt to invade the ROK. Although much of the surface-based defense capability in the South is transitioning to the ROK army, **a strong US airpower presence demonstrates US commitment to Korean security, counterbalances the DPRK’s offensive systems, and deters war.**</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Since the summer of 1950, US airpower has remained one of the dominant military forces on the Korean Peninsula. Through the Korean War, the Cold War, the uncertain post–Cold War era that has existed since the fall of the Soviet Union, and the transition of power in North Korea from Kim Il Sung to his son, Kim Jong Il, the ability of US airpower to serve as **a key pillar** of deterrence to forces that threaten the stability and security of the Republic of Korea (ROK) and the ROK-US alliance has remained unquestioned. In a transforming geopolitical landscape and a rapidly evolving region, this is unlikely to change in the future.</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Many issues relating to the disposition of US forces in Asia—Korea in particular—are relevant to any discussion regarding the future of air forces on the peninsula and surrounding areas that would find themselves involved in a conflict or major military operation during a crisis. Among the most important of these is the evolving North Korean threat. This article analyzes that threat and its development over the past decade. Because the threat from North Korea has indeed evolved, one must also conduct an analysis of how the United States can best support its ally South Korea in a time of crisis and examine why airpower represents a more important element of this equation than it has in the past. Equally important, the article considers how transformation in the US military and within its forces in Korea has changed the role of US airpower as it relates to the ROK-US alliance, as well as how recent concerns of both Seoul and Washington have altered the paradigms of the ways in which our military forces can best support the South Korean military in a crisis or full-scale war. These issues have all come to the forefront since the nuclear confrontation with North Korea heated up in the fall of 2002.1</span></span>

**Korea war goes global and nuclear**
**STRATFOR 10** (5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” [[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula]], JMP)
So the real issue is the potential for escalation — or an accident that could precipitate escalation — that would be beyond the control of Pyongyang or Seoul. With both sides on high alert, both adhering to their own national (and contradictory) definitions of where disputed boundaries lie and with rules of engagement loosened, **the potential for sudden and rapid escalation is quite real.**
Indeed, North Korea’s navy, though sizable on paper, is largely a hollow shell of old, laid-up vessels. What remains are small fast attack craft and submarines — mostly Sang-O “Shark” class boats and midget submersibles. These vessels are best employed in the cluttered littoral environment to bring asymmetric tactics to bear — not unlike those Iran has prepared for use in the Strait of Hormuz. These kinds of vessels and tactics — including, especially, the deployment of naval mines — are poorly controlled when dispersed in a crisis and are often impossible to recall.
For nearly 40 years, tensions on the Korean Peninsula were managed within the context of the wider Cold War. During that time it was feared that a second Korean War could all too **easily escalate into** and **a thermonuclear World War III**, so both Pyongyang and Seoul were being heavily managed from their respective corners. In fact, USFK was long designed to ensure that South Korea could not independently provoke that war and drag the Americans into it, which for much of the Cold War period was of far greater concern to Washington than North Korea attacking southward.
Today, those constraints no longer exist. There are certainly still constraints — neither the United States nor China wants war on the peninsula. But current tensions are **quickly escalating to a level unprecedented** in the post-Cold War period, and the constraints that do exist have never been tested in the way they might be if the situation escalates much further. 

**It’ll go nuclear and cause war with Russia**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Blank, Army prof, 11</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">—professor at the Strategic Studies Institute of the US Army War College (Stephen, © 2011, Joint U.S.-Korea Academic Studies, Volume 21, “Russia and the Six-Party Process in Korea,” [[http://www.keia.org/Communications/JAS%202011/2011JAS_Blank.pdf]], RBatra)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Therefore Russia desperately wants to prevent a war breaking out over Korea either by U.S. and ROK attacks on the North or by a North Korean attack on South Korea or Japan. Moscow’s reaction to the Cheonan incident, its professed skepticism as to whether North Korea actually sank the ship, its insistence on conducting its own investigation, its readiness to cooperate with China to avert escalation of the crisis by all means, and its insistence on returning to the table all indicate Russia’s anxiety lest this crisis engender a breakdown of the negotiation process or lead to actual conflict (Kipp 2010).</span></span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Such a conflict could quickly escalate even to the nuclear level</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> and could **only** end with a hostile power (either the United States or China) occupying North Korea and its border with Russia. It is not certain that Russia could stay out of such a war, and the consequences of it would, under almost every imaginable circumstance, be very severe. No outcome here is acceptable to Russia, but its means of preventing these possible outcomes are decidedly limited. At the same time, conflict on the Korean peninsula also undermines any hope of developing the RFE with foreign assistance since Russia cannot do so alone. Absent such a development, all talk of Russia as a great Asian power remains just that: talk. </span></span>


**That outweighs**
**Bostrom, prof at Yale,** **2** (Nick, Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies at Yale, "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," 38, www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html)
A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization. Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately</span></span>. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">a smaller nuclear exchange</span></span>, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently. 


**Triggers multiple scenarios for war**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Karlin 10</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">—independent writer, author, analyst, **educated at UC Berkeley** (Anatoly, 28 March 2010, How a Second Korean War will be Fought, [[http://www.sublimeoblivion.com/2010/03/28/korean-war-2/]], RBatra)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">If this were to happen, all bets are off. China will probably be able to roll back the invasion forces to the DMZ. After all, it managed to do this in the 1950′s, when it was much more militarily backwards relative to the US. Now, it will have a big preponderance over land, while its new “carrier-killing” ballistic missiles, submarines, cruise missiles, and Flanker fighters are now, at some level, able to deny the seas off China to the US Navy, while its anti-satellite tests and cyberwar prowess means that the American dominance in space and information ought not be taken for granted either. Now I am not saying that the Chinese Army (it ceased by the People’s Liberation Army recently) comes anywhere close to matching the American military; however, it might well already have the ability to defeat it in a local war on China’s borders. If China is successful, it will re-establish North Korea as its own protectorate, although under someone more rational and reliable than Kim Jong-il (though needless to say this will also completely sever its economic relationship with the US and cause a severe, but temporary, economic contraction due to the collapse of its export sector).</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">There will be a cascade of consequences elsewhere. **Taiwan may use the opportunity to declare independence, provoking a second war in the region**. Though the US says that it will not come to Taiwan’s aid if it does this unilaterally, America will probably change its mind if it is simultaneously embroiled in an intense local war with China on the Korean peninsula! Other actors opposed to American hegemony may view this as a chance to undermine the overstretched superpower. For instance, **Russia could orchestrate a new war against Georgia** and China may even persuade Iran to mine the Strait of Hormuz in exchange for security guarantees and technology transfer. All **these dominoes going down may even precipitate the collapse of the increasingly fragile Pax Americana.**</span></span>

**The 2ID would be better used elsewhere**
**ROK Drop** **10**—the leading military weblog out of Korea, posted by an active GI in South Korea who has commanded troops in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Korea (5 March 2010, “Are US Troops Still Needed In South Korea?,” http://rokdrop.com/2010/03/05/are-us-troops-still-needed-in-south-korea/, RBatra)
As far as the US military presence in Korea, I am a supporter of the Camp Humphreys relocation plan which will greatly reduce the USFK footprint in Korea. I think eventually the use of having the 2nd Infantry Division located in Korea will need to be looked at because their use in a ground war in Korea would have little effect on the outcome considering the huge Army the South Koreans maintain. It just seems **the remaining 2ID units would be better used elsewhere**. If 2ID was to redeploy, to maintain close ties with the ROK Army possibly Stryker units could rotate to Korea to do training exercises instead of keeping a permanently based presence? The Air Force on the other hand I think continues to be an important asset to the defense of South Korea and I don’t see them moving anytime soon.

**Brigades in South Korea are inflexible and send a signal of weakness—the plan allows rapid response to hotspots in South Asia**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";">O’Hanlon 4 </span></span>[Michael, **Senior Fellow,** Foreign Policy Studies, The Sydney Stein, Jr., Chair, The **@ Brookings** Institution, “THE STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS OF U.S. TROOP WITHDRAWALS FROM KOREA,” Testimony before Committee on Armed Services, US House of Representatives, [H.A.S.C. No. 108–31], 6/15, d/a: 7/15/10, http://commdocs.house.gov/committees/security/has167000.000/has167000_0f.htm]
Now some people would argue—leaving aside the issue of the peninsula, leaving aside the military balance on the peninsula, whether or not the ROK could maintain a robust defensive perimeter on its own—<span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">we don't want to send a message</span></span> to the region more broadly <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">of any kind of weakness</span></span> or any kind of reduction in our strength. We don't want to take away capability, that Secretary Rumsfeld was discussing in Singapore a short time ago, <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">to increase our ability to deal with possible hotspots in Southeast Asia</span></span>, in the Taiwan Strait, et cetera. I would agree with that concern, but I would also say that <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">the brigades in Korea have not been very usable for other regional contingencies. They are</span></span> essentially <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none;">anchored to Korea</span><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">. That has always been the logic of their presence. They are among our least flexible military units in the entire U.S. forward deployment</span></span>. And therefore, <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">taking</span></span> one of <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">those out of Korea</span></span>, putting it in Iraq temporarily and then bringing it back to the United States, I believe, actually <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">increases our </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">long-term regional flexibility</span></span>. And therefore, I would not oppose this change on those grounds, either. It is true the Asia-Pacific remains very important. The Asia-Pacific has a number of possible contingencies we need to think more about, and this committee has been showing the way. I think <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">most of those contingencies are largely naval, Air Force or Marine</span></span> in nature. But <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">even the ones that may involve the Army would be better served by an Army that is </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">not starting from bases in Korea</span><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">, because Army forces in Korea are</span></span> largely, if not exclusively, <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">focused on the Korea contingency</span></span>. We have been very reluctant ever to redeploy them for any other purpose. Therefore, <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">by keeping them there, you would not be sending a </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">message to the rest of the region</span><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> of greater capability. You would</span></span> essentially <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">be tying down </span></span>some of <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">your </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">long-term capability</span></span>.

**The 2ID needs to become more flexible—key to responding to multiple contingencies**
**Pollack** and Reiss **4**—Jonathan <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">Pollack</span></span>, **professor of Asian** and Pacific **studies** and chairman of the Strategic Research Department at **Naval War College,** <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">and</span></span> Mitchell <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">Reiss</span></span>, former Director of the Reves Center for International Studies, <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">2004</span></span>, “The Nuclear Tipping Point,” P. 268
Third, and most important, U.S. planners believe that <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">American forces may be needed much more elsewhere</span></span>, especially <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">given the</span></span> expectation of open-ended <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">demands on U.S. forces deployed to</span></span> Iraq, <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Afghanistan, and</span></span> elsewhere in <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">the Persian Gulf</span></span> and Southwest Asia. In this view, <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">American forces must become much more flexible and agile, able to redeploy on very short notice to distant theaters. Under prevailing circumstances, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the Second Infantry Division remains a fixed asset, committed exclusively to</span></span> deterrence and defense on <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the peninsula</span></span>. The <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">redeployment</span></span> and reconfiguration <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">of U.S. forces would enable their transformation into far more mobile combat units geared to a much </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; text-decoration: none;">wider array of prospective contingencies</span></span>, not simply to peninsular missions. The United States therefore envisions a much less singular U.S. security role in Korea and (very likely) appreciable reductions in the American military presence on the peninsula over the coming decade. Although a reduced U.S. footprint will also reduce public resentment in the ROK of a highly visible U.S. security presence, ROK security planners express growing unease, since they fear that they will be left exposed and ill prepared to deal with future military threats. They also fear that a major withdrawal of U.S. forces will leave South Korea surrounded by more powerful neighboring states.

**That creates military alliances with India and Vietnam—balances against China**
**Kuzar 6** (Vladimir, “The Pentagon’s Rearrangement”, Defense and Security (Russia), 6-9, Lexis)
The matter of reduction of the US troops in Japan was resolved in May. It had already happened in South Korea from which some units were moved to Guam and Australia. All of that is being done within the framework of the same redeployment. Reducing its military presence in these countries, the Pentagon boosts these countries' responsibility for fulfillment of the tasks stipulated by their commitments as allies. Moreover, all of that permits the Pentagon to concentrate on penetration of other countries - countries like Vietnam and India. An alliance with these countries will give the Americans additional trump cards in the geopolitical games in the Middle East, Central Asia, South Asia, and Southeast Asia. Neither has Washington failed to notice strategic importance of New Delhi as a future **counterweight to China** in the brave new world. This latter is not something Washington likes to admit in public, but that it is certainly thinking along these lines is clear. Particularly since the relations between New Delhi and Washington have already progressed from the condition of "alienation" to the status of "natural allies" (as the leaders of the two countries proclaimed in 2000). When Bush was visiting New Delhi in March, a great deal was said about how the United States was ready to assist India in boosting its defense potential through supplying vital technologies and potentials this country needed. It was even emphasized that the United States and India would soon sign an accord on mutual back support in preparations for joint exercises and in joint post-catastrophe operations.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Effective containment of China via increasing ties with India and Vietnam is key to prevent war over Taiwan and collapse of U.S. influence in the region</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Sempa 9</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">—**adjunct professor of political science at the University of Scranton and at Wilkes University** (Francis P, 31 December 2009, “Read The Geopolitical Containment of China”, [[http://www.mackinderforum.org/commentaries/the-geopolitical-containment-of-china]], RBatra)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">None of this means that China will definitely make a bid for hegemony similar to Napoleon, the Kaiser, Hitler, or the Soviet Union. But it would be foolhardy for the United States to ignore signs and developments that point in that direction. While it is true that China’s economic liberalization and the phenomenon of globalization have resulted in vastly increased economic ties between China and the U.S. which benefit both countries, such economic interdependence will not likely trump long-term strategic interests and ambitions. Even if China only has regional ambitions, such as the conquest or incorporation of Taiwan and command of the sea approaches to the East Asian mainland, those regional ambitions are inconsistent with U.S. security interests and commitments in the region. All of this points to the need for the United States to **prepare for the geopolitical containment of China**. China and the lands adjacent to it occupy the area of the globe that Nicholas Spykman called the Asian Rimland. Spykman, toward the end of the Second World War, wrote that China would become the strongest power in the Far East, and he warned that, as with Western Europe, the United States needed to ensure that no adversary power or alliance of powers harbored an overwhelmingly dominant command of that region. Zbigniew Brzezinski has expressed this same outlook in different terms: the United States, he wrote, must ensure the “geopolitical pluralism” of the Far East. China currently is effectively contained on land by the other regional powers: Russia in the north; India in the West; the Indochinese countries to the south. The south is the weakest land barrier to Chinese expansion, but China surely remembers its difficult war with Vietnam of a few decades ago. China’s intended expansion and/or naval breakout will likely emerge from her lengthy coastline to the east. It is in that direction that U.S.-Chinese interests clash. Therefore, any U.S. containment policy must primarily look to the area beyond China’s eastern coast—an area that, geographically, is well-suited to naval and air containment. A map of the Asia-Pacific region along the East Asian mainland shows a succession of marginal and enclosed seas potentially forming an effective sea and air barrier to Chinese expansion. At the far north, the Bering Sea is effectively enclosed by the chain of the Aleutian Islands. Further south, the Sea of Okhotsk is enclosed by the Kamchatka Peninsula and the Kurile Islands. Closer to mainland China, the Sea of Japan is enclosed by Japanese main islands, while access through the East China Sea can be controlled from South Korea, the tip of Kyushu and the Ryukyu chain of islands. Further south, the island of Taiwan forms an impressive barrier to Chinese ocean access, reinforced by the Pescadores. The South China Sea is partially enclosed by the Philippines to the southeast and Indonesia to the south. China’s access to the Indian Ocean is decisively controlled by the Malacca Strait and the Malay Peninsula, including the vital port of Singapore. The map shows the crucial location of Taiwan which serves as the Gibraltar of what Spykman called the “Asiatic Mediterranean.” Were Taiwan to fall under Chinese control, a central and crucial link in this series of island and peninsular barriers would be unhinged, crippling this containment perimeter. That is why the great Cold War strategist James Burnham once wrote that the abandonment of Taiwan would be a “strategic disaster” for the United States. The geography of the region reinforces the need for the United States to rely on naval and air power and regional allies to serve as the foundation of containment. Militarily, the United States should buttress its ability to exercise sea command of the approaches to the Asian mainland and especially key strategic chokepoints such as the Taiwan and Malacca Straits. Naval experts will decide the size, composition, and location of the naval (and air) forces to accomplish these tasks. The United States also needs to maintain, and if necessary, strengthen its nuclear deterrent force so that it can affect Chinese strategic calculations in any crisis or confrontation (similar to its effect on Chinese calculations at the end of the Korean War and Soviet calculations during the Cuban Missile Crisis and the 1973 Yom Kippur War). The U.S. should also **strengthen its strategic ties to India**; ensure that Pakistan and Afghanistan do not fall under the control of Islamic jihadists; maintain better relations with Russia than Russia has with China (repeating the strategic insight of Henry Kissinger during the early 1970s); **and improve and strengthen relations with the smaller powers of Indochina, including Vietnam**. It is an axiom of geopolitics that a power distracted on land will not be able to focus on enhancing its sea power. U.S. power projection capabilities will ultimately depend on the extent and strength of its alliances in the region. Japan, like Great Britain in the Second World War, is an insular strategic base, important for its location and manpower in any effort to contain China. South Korea provides the U.S. with a key strategic and military base on the Asian mainland and is positioned to help the naval and air coverage of crucial sea lanes. The Philippines’ importance waned with the end of the Cold War, resulting in the U.S. exit from Subic Naval Base and Clark Air Base. The effective containment of China may (nay, should) force the United States to revisit the possibility of a significant military return to the Philippines. Taiwan, for reasons noted above, must not be allowed to fall under China’s control. It is, in regard to effectively containing China, the hinge of fate. Singapore and control of the Malacca Strait are crucial to denying China access to the Indian Ocean and the oil-producing countries of the Middle East and Africa, if necessary. China’s economic growth is fueled by high energy consumption, and it currently receives half of its oil supplies from the Middle East and one-third of its oil supplies from Africa. Australia serves as a further off-shore base of naval power and manpower that can be brought to bear in the effort to contain China. Gordon Chang and others have noted the recent mass protests and demonstrations throughout China that have the potential to shake the foundations of communist rule. These mass incidents, perhaps as many as 150,000, present both opportunities and concerns for U.S strategy. Domestic unrest in China could be exploited by the United States as a strategic complement to containment, weakening the regime’s hold on power as its external goals are frustrated. On the other hand, such **domestic unrest could persuade China’s rulers to use external aggression** and the perceived need to combat foreign enemies as a way of fostering domestic unity and thereby strengthening the regime’s hold on power. Since its founding in the late 18th century, the United States has had a Euro-centric geopolitical focus. The principal threats to its security were in Europe. Its national security was guaranteed in part by the operation of the European balance of power. Twice in the 20th century, the United States fought in Europe to preserve the balance of power. During the Cold War, the U.S. stationed large military forces in Europe and pledged to go to war (nuclear war, if necessary) to defend Western Europe. Although it also fought in Asia during the Second World War, and fought two “hot” wars in Asia during the Cold War, the United States still looked first to Europe in its geopolitical approach to the world. The end of the Cold War and Europe’s shrinking geopolitical significance has changed the U.S. strategic focus. Increasingly, U.S. security priorities are in Asia. U.S. forces are waging war on Islamic jihadists in the western extremity of Asia. The two aspiring nuclear powers that threaten U.S. regional interests are in Asia (Iran and North Korea). The fastest rising powers of the world economically and militarily are in Asia (India and China). And, **the most likely peer competitor to U.S. power—China—is in Asia**. Containment is the prudent and realistic response to the strategic implications and consequences of China’s rise within Asia.</span></span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The impact is Asian stability and World War</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Huntley 3/11</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">—**Media Fellow, Hoover Institution, Stanford University**, was awarded Peter Lisagor Awards for exemplary journalism in 2004 and 1997 and the Sarah Brown Boyden award for editorials from the Chicago Journalists Association in 2006, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, BA (Steve, 11 March 2011, “Alliance with India in U.S. interest,” [[http://www.suntimes.com/news/huntley/4221700-417/alliance-with-india-in-u.s.-interest]], RBatra)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The other challenge for U.S. policymakers is the increasingly assertive military stance of China. Beijing is pushing up military spending by nearly 13 percent this year. It recently unveiled a stealth jet similar to the U.S. F-22, plans to add 15 vessels to its fleet of more than 60 submarines and is commissioning what will be its first, but certainly not its last aircraft carrier. China’s acknowledged military spending has soared from $17 billion in 2001 to $78 billion last year, and the actual figure may be closer to $150 billion, according to the Wall Street Journal. That instills worry among its neighbors in the Asia-Pacific region. An Australian defense think tank concluded that **China’s arms buildup “is potentially the most demanding security situation faced since the Second World War**.” Fortunately there’s a natural ally for America in countering the Pakistani and Chinese challenges. It’s India, the world’s most populous democracy. To their credit, Presidents Obama and George W. Bush have cultivated ties with India. The interests of America and India coincide. India, like America, has been the victim of devastating terrorist attacks. Metastasizing radical Islamism, with the potential to turn Pakistan into a failed state with nuclear weapons, is a vital national security issue for Washington and New Delhi. A U.S. decision to aid India with, for example, missile-defense technology would be a powerful message to Pakistan. China and India fought a war in 1962, and today their emerging economic rivalry matches their growing military arsenals. Japan, South Korea and other neighbors of China also have been alarmed by China’s military buildup and have sought to bolster their own defenses. **India constitutes the logical hub for a new American alliance with Asian and Pacific nations to balance Beijing’s growing military clout and to maintain stability in the region**. Washington can’t anticipate every foreign upheaval, but closer ties with India could prepare for what may be gathering storms on the other side of the world.</span></span>

**The U.S. hierarchy is key to maintain hegemony and prevent multiple scenarios for nuclear war**
**Goh 8** – **Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford** (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database, JMP)
The centrality of these mutual processes of assurance and deference means that the stability of a hierarchical order is fundamentally related to a collective sense of certainty about the leadership and order of the hierarchy. This certainty is rooted in a combination of material calculations – smaller states' assurance that the expected costs of the dominant state conquering them would be higher than the benefits – and ideational convictions – the sense of legitimacy, derived from shared values and norms that accompanies the super-ordinate state's authority in the social order. The empirical analysis in the next section shows that regional stability in East Asia in the post-Second World War years can be correlated to the degree of collective **certainty** about the US-led regional hierarchy. East Asian stability and instability has been determined by U.S. assurances, self-confidence, and commitment to maintaining its primary position in the regional hierarchy; the perceptions and confidence of regional states about US commitment; and the reactions of subordinate states in the region to the varied challengers to the regional hierarchical order. 4. Hierarchy and the East Asian security order Currently, the regional hierarchy in East Asia is still dominated by the United States. Since the 1970s, China has increasingly claimed the position of second-ranked great power, a claim that is today legitimized by the hierarchical deference shown by smaller subordinate powers such as South Korea and Southeast Asia. Japan and South Korea can, by virtue of their alliance with the United States, be seen to occupy positions in a third layer of regional major powers, while India is ranked next on the strength of its new strategic relationship with Washington. North Korea sits outside the hierarchic order but affects it due to its military prowess and nuclear weapons capability. Apart from making greater sense of recent history, conceiving of the US' role in East Asia as the dominant state in the regional hierarchy helps to clarify three critical puzzles in the contemporary international and East Asian security landscape. First, it contributes to explaining the lack of sustained challenges to American global preponderance after the end of the Cold War. Three of the key potential global challengers to US unipolarity originate in Asia (China, India, and Japan), and their support for or acquiescence to, US dominance have helped to stabilize its global leadership. Through its dominance of the Asian regional hierarchy, the United States has been able to neutralize the potential threats to its position from Japan via an alliance, from India by gradually identifying and pursuing mutual commercial and strategic interests, and from China by encircling and deterring it with allied and friendly states that support American preponderance. Secondly, recognizing US hierarchical preponderance further explains contemporary under-balancing in Asia, both against a rising China, and against incumbent American power. I have argued that one defining characteristic of a hierarchical system is voluntary subordination of lesser states to the dominant state, and that this goes beyond rationalistic bandwagoning because it is manifested in a social contract that comprises the related processes of hierarchical assurance and hierarchical deference. Critically, successful and sustainable hierarchical assurance and deference helps to explain why Japan is not yet a ‘normal’ country. Japan has experienced significant impetus to revise and expand the remit of its security forces in the last 15 years. Yet, these pressures continue to be insufficient to prompt a wholesale revision of its constitution and its remilitarization. The reason is that the United States extends its security umbrella over Japan through their alliance, which has led Tokyo not only to perceive no threat from US dominance, but has in fact helped to forge a security community between them (Nau, 2003). Adjustments in burden sharing in this alliance since the 1990s have arisen not from greater independent Japanese strategic activism, but rather from periods of strategic uncertainty and crises for Japan when it appeared that American hierarchical assurance, along with US' position at the top of the regional hierarchy, was in question. Thus, the Japanese priority in taking on more responsibility for regional security has been to improve its ability to facilitate the US' central position, rather than to challenge it.13 In the face of the security threats from North Korea and China, Tokyo's continued reliance on the security pact with the United States is rational. While there remains debate about Japan's re-militarization and the growing clout of nationalist ‘hawks’ in Tokyo, for regional and domestic political reasons, a sustained ‘normalization’ process cannot take place outside of the restraining framework of the United States–Japan alliance (Samuels, 2007; Pyle, 2007). Abandoning the alliance will entail Japan making a conscience choice not only to remove itself from the US-led hierarchy, but also to challenge the United States dominance directly. The United States–ROK alliance may be understood in a similar way, although South Korea faces different sets of constraints because of its strategic priorities related to North Korea. As J.J. Suh argues, in spite of diminishing North Korean capabilities, which render the US security umbrella less critical, the alliance endures because of mutual identification – in South Korea, the image of the US as ‘the only conceivable protector against aggression from the North,’ and in the United States, an image of itself as protector of an allied nation now vulnerable to an ‘evil’ state suspected of transferring weapons of mass destruction to terrorist networks (Suh, 2004). Kang, in contrast, emphasizes how South Korea has become less enthusiastic about its ties with the United States – as indicated by domestic protests and the rejection of TMD – and points out that Seoul is not arming against a potential land invasion from China but rather maritime threats (Kang, 2003, pp.79–80). These observations are valid, but they can be explained by hierarchical deference towa0rd the United States, rather than China. The ROK's military orientation reflects its identification with and dependence on the United States and its adoption of US' strategic aims. In spite of its primary concern with the North Korean threat, Seoul's formal strategic orientation is toward maritime threats, in line with Washington's regional strategy. Furthermore, recent South Korean Defense White Papers habitually cited a remilitarized Japan as a key threat. The best means of coping with such a threat would be continued reliance on the US security umbrella and on Washington's ability to restrain Japanese remilitarization (Eberstadt et al., 2007). Thus, while the United States–ROK bilateral relationship is not always easy, its durability is based on South Korea's fundamental acceptance of the United States as the region's primary state and reliance on it to defend and keep regional order. It also does not rule out Seoul and other US allies conducting business and engaging diplomatically with China. India has increasingly adopted a similar strategy vis-à-vis China in recent years. Given its history of territorial and political disputes with China and its contemporary economic resurgence, India is seen as the key potential power balancer to a growing China. Yet, India has sought to negotiate settlements about border disputes with China, and has moved significantly toward developing closer strategic relations with the United States. Apart from invigorated defense cooperation in the form of military exchange programs and joint exercises, the key breakthrough was the agreement signed in July 2005 which facilitates renewed bilateral civilian nuclear cooperation (Mohan, 2007). Once again, this is a key regional power that could have balanced more directly and independently against China, but has rather chosen to align itself or bandwagon with the primary power, the United States, partly because of significant bilateral gains, but fundamentally in order to support the latter's regional order-managing function. Recognizing a regional hierarchy and seeing that the lower layers of this hierarchy have become more active since the mid-1970s also allows us to understand why there has been no outright balancing of China by regional states since the 1990s. On the one hand, the US position at the top of the hierarchy has been revived since the mid-1990s, meaning that deterrence against potential Chinese aggression is reliable and in place.14 On the other hand, the aim of regional states is to try to consolidate China's inclusion in the regional hierarchy at the level below that of the United States, not to keep it down or to exclude it. East Asian states recognize that they cannot, without great cost to themselves, contain Chinese growth. But they hope to socialize China by enmeshing it in peaceful regional norms and economic and security institutions. They also know that they can also help to ensure that the capabilities gap between China and the United States remains wide enough to deter a power transition. Because this strategy requires persuading China about the appropriateness of its position in the hierarchy and of the legitimacy of the US position, all East Asian states engage significantly with China, with the small Southeast Asian states refusing openly to ‘choose sides’ between the United States and China. Yet, hierarchical deference continues to explain why regional institutions such as the ASEAN Regional Forum, ASEAN + 3, and East Asian Summit have made limited progress. While the United State has made room for regional multilateral institutions after the end of the Cold War, its hierarchical preponderance also constitutes the regional order to the extent that it cannot comfortably be excluded from any substantive strategic developments. On the part of some lesser states (particularly Japan and Singapore), hierarchical deference is manifested in inclusionary impulses (or at least impulses not to exclude the United States or US proxies) in regional institutions, such as the East Asia Summit in December 2005. Disagreement on this issue with others, including China and Malaysia, has stymied potential progress in these regional institutions (Malik, 2006). Finally, conceiving of a US-led East Asian hierarchy amplifies our understanding of how and why the United States–China relationship is now the key to regional order. The vital nature of the Sino-American relationship stems from these two states' structural positions. As discussed earlier, China is the primary second-tier power in the regional hierarchy. However, as Chinese power grows and Chinese activism spreads beyond Asia, the United States is less and less able to see China as merely a regional power – witness the growing concerns about Chinese investment and aid in certain African countries. This causes a disjuncture between US global interests and US regional interests. Regional attempts to engage and socialize China are aimed at mediating its intentions. This process, however, cannot stem Chinese growth, which forms the material basis of US threat perceptions. Apprehensions about the growth of China's power culminates in US fears about the region being ‘lost’ to China, echoing Cold War concerns that transcribed regional defeats into systemic setbacks.15 On the other hand, the US security strategy post-Cold War and post-9/11 have regional manifestations that disadvantage China. The strengthening of US alliances with Japan and Australia; and the deployment of US troops to Central, South, and Southeast Asia all cause China to fear a consolidation of US global hegemony that will first threaten Chinese national security in the regional context and then stymie China's global reach. Thus, the key determinants of the East Asian security order relate to two core questions: (i) Can the US be persuaded that China can act as a reliable ‘regional stakeholder’ that will help to buttress regional stability and US global security aims;16 and (ii) can China be convinced that the United States has neither territorial ambitions in Asia nor the desire to encircle China, but will help to promote Chinese development and stability as part of its global security strategy? (Wang, 2005). But, these questions cannot be asked in the abstract, outside the context of negotiation about their relative positions in the regional and global hierarchies. One urgent question for further investigation is how the process of assurance and deference operate at the topmost levels of a hierarchy? When we have two great powers of unequal strength but contesting claims and a closing capabilities gap in the same regional hierarchy, how much scope for negotiation is there, before a reversion to balancing dynamics? This is the main structural dilemma: as long as the United States does not give up its primary position in the Asian regional hierarchy, China is very unlikely to act in a way that will provide comforting answers to the two questions. Yet, the East Asian regional order has been and still is constituted by US hegemony, and to change that could be extremely disruptive and may lead to regional actors acting in highly destabilizing ways. **Rapid Japanese remilitarization, armed conflict across the Taiwan Straits, Indian nuclear brinksmanship directed toward Pakistan, or a highly destabilized Korean peninsula are all illustrative of potential regional disruptions.** 5. Conclusion To construct a coherent account of East Asia's evolving security order, I have suggested that the United States is the central force in constituting regional stability and order. The major patterns of equilibrium and turbulence in the region since 1945 can be explained by the relative stability of the US position at the top of the regional hierarchy, with periods of greatest insecurity being correlated with greatest uncertainty over the American commitment to managing regional order. Furthermore, relationships of hierarchical assurance and hierarchical deference explain the unusual character of regional order in the post-Cold War era. However, the greatest contemporary challenge to East Asian order is the potential conflict between China and the United States over rank ordering in the regional hierarchy, a contest made more potent because of the inter-twining of regional and global security concerns. Ultimately, though, investigating such questions of positionality requires conceptual lenses that go beyond basic material factors because it entails social and normative questions. How can China be brought more into a leadership position, while being persuaded to buy into shared strategic interests and constrain its own in ways that its vision of regional and global security may eventually be reconciled with that of the United States and other regional players? How can Washington be persuaded that its central position in the hierarchy must be ultimately shared in ways yet to be determined? The future of the East Asian security order is tightly bound up with the durability of the United States' global leadership and regional domination. At the regional level, the main scenarios of disruption are an outright Chinese challenge to US leadership, or the defection of key US allies, particularly Japan. Recent history suggests, and the preceding analysis has shown, that challenges to or defections from US leadership will come at junctures where it appears that the US commitment to the region is in doubt, which in turn destabilizes the hierarchical order. At the global level, American geopolitical over-extension will be the key cause of change. This is the one factor that could lead to both greater regional and global turbulence, if only by the attendant strategic uncertainly triggering off regional challenges or defections. However, it is notoriously difficult to gauge thresholds of over-extension. More positively, East Asia is a region that has adjusted to previous periods of uncertainty about US primacy. Arguably, the regional consensus over the United States as primary state in a system of benign hierarchy could accommodate a shifting of the strategic burden to US allies like Japan and Australia as a means of systemic preservation. The alternatives that could surface as a result of not doing so would appear to be much worse. 
=<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">1AC adv 2</span>= 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">There will be a major expansion of Camp Humphreys—the 2nd infantry division is being moved there</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Galbijim No Date</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> (“Camp Humphreys,” [[http://wiki.galbijim.com/Camp_Humphreys]], RBatra)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Camp Humphreys is a major United States Army base located in Paengseong-eup, Pyeongtaek-shi, Gyeonggi-do, at 36°58´N 127°02´E. The main feature of the base is its airstrip, which runs the entire length of the base and is also one of the busiest U.S. army airfields outside the continental United States. Camp Humphreys is located next to the city of Anjung-ni and about 5 miles from the major city of Pyeongtaek. The base covers an area of 1,500,000 pyeong (1 pyeong = 3.3 meters) and it contains a commisary, PX, theater, and bowling alley.</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Camp Humphreys houses the military jail facility in South Korea which detains soldiers for no more than a year before they are shipped off to Ft. Leavenworth. There is no one major unit that commands the base, although the United States Eighth Army is the parent unit. The 501st Signal Company and 2/52nd MFAB are just 2 of the many units on the base.</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">In 1941, forces of the Imperial Japanese Army established bases in Paengseong and Anjung-ri. The land they used was expropriated without compensation and the bases were built with Korean labor. The United States Army took over the base during World War Two, and used it in the Korean War. During and after those wars, the base was expanded with land from the settlements of Daechu-ri, Anjung-ni, Dujeong-ni, Hamjeong-ni, Nae-ri, and Dongchang-ni.</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">In 1997, the last Army mobile army surgical hospital (MASH) was deactivated at the base with actors from the M*A*S*H tv series in attendance.</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">As part of global repositioning efforts, the US military plans to move the USFK Eighth Army and the 2nd Infantry Division from the Yongsan Garrison in Seoul to the city of Pyeongtaek by 2008. In December 2004, the Korean government agreed to U.S. plans to expand the base, currently 3,734 acres, by an additional 2,851 acres. The surrounding land, including the towns of Doduri and Daechuri, is home to some 1,372 people who would lose their land. In February 2005, peace activists and residents began a peace camp at the village of Daechuri, which declared autonomy from Korea on February 7th, 2006, vowing to resist expulsion from the expanded base area. On March 6th, 2006, South Korean military riot police began to attempt a forcible eviction of Daechuri. There have been several other attempts by the South Korean military to evict the villagers. On May 4th, 2006 the Korean Ministry of National Defense demolished the Daechuri primary school, which had been an organizing center for the resisting farmers. As of June 11, 2006, villagers remain in their homes and are still resisting eviction.</span></span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Camp Humphreys spurs national Anti-Base Movements and undermines U.S.-ROK relations</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Yeo 10</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">—**Assistant Professor in the Department of Politics at the Catholic University of America** (Andrew, 14 June 2010, “Anti-Base Movements in South Korea: Comparative Perspective on the Asia-Pacific,” [[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Andrew-Yeo/3373]], RBatra)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Amids USFK transformation and base realignment and consolidation in South Korea, local residents and activists once again joined forces to oppose the expansion of Camp Humphreys in Pyeongtaek. Figure 1 below indicates which bases were slated for closure and consolidation, emphasizing the closure of bases in and around Seoul and the opening of new bases in the far south. The expansion included relocating USFK headquarters from Yongsan Garrison in Seoul to Pyeongtaek, as well as the consolidation of the 2nd Infantry Division to the Osan-Pyeongtaek area.16 USFK relocation plans called for tripling the size of Camp Humphreys.17 Local residents in Daechuri and Dodori, the two villages most affected by base expansion, were particularly alarmed. Not only was their livelihood as rice farmers threatened, but for the elderly, USFK base expansion meant being uprooted from their homes for a second or third time as a result of foreign base expansion (following the Japanese colonial era and the Korean War). Additionally, activists cited the lack of transparency and democratic process during negotiations between Seoul and Washington. In May 2004, Father Mun Jeong Hyeon, a leading figure in South Korea’s peace movement, met with leaders of local Pyeongtaek anti-base groups and the Paengseong Residents’ Action Committee. The meeting proved fruitful as Mun, along with other prominent NGO leaders, pushed to unify a broad range of South Korean civic groups into a unified national campaign. What was originally a local movement in Pyeongtaek became a **national struggle** with 120 organizations including labor, student, women’s rights, farmer, human rights, peace, unification, and religious groups directly or nominally involved in the campaign. The bulk of the organizing was conducted by activists residing in or near Pyeongtaek, supplemented by peace activists representing national civic groups. Anti-base activists used a variety of strategies to publicize the Pyeongtaek base relocation project and challenge the state. Most visible were three major protests organized in Pyeongtaek in July and December 2005, and in February 2006. Additionally, activists sponsored press conferences and public forums, and they used visual media, art, music, and street theater to raise public awareness. The goal was to attract people who may not have necessarily shared the political views of anti-base activists, but who shared with the movement a sense of the primacy of human rights and justice. To maintain a community-based strategy, activists from national civic groups relocated to Pyeongtaek and “embedded” themselves in houses already vacated by residents.18 This action also served as a tactic to prevent the government from clearing the area for base construction. In solidarity with local residents, activists participated in the nightly candlelight vigils held in Daechuri. Although the South Korean government had legally acquired the majority of base expansion land by the end of 2005, residents and activists squatting in abandoned homes prevented the MND from physically taking control of the land. Facing U.S. pressure and fearful of **weakening the U.S.-South Korean alliance**, the MND stepped up pressure to acquire land for base expansion. On several occasions in spring 2006, the MND sent workers to Daechuri village to erect barbed wire and prevent activists from entering the expanded base land. Residents and activists continued to resist. Preparing the nation for potential violence, on May 1, the South Korean Prime Minister and the Minister of Defense announced on national broadcast the dispatch of riot police to Pyeongtaek while explaining the necessity for U.S. base expansion. Three days later, the MND sent 2,800 engineering and infantry troops to dig trenches and set up barbed wire around the perimeter. The troops were accompanied by 12,000 riot police.19 As morning approached, riot police physically removed activists and students barricading themselves inside an elementary school used as a makeshift anti-base campaign headquarters. Meanwhile, activists and government forces clashed as activists broke through the barbed wire perimeter.</span></span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Strains in the alliance are inevitable—the plan solves</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Nam 6</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">—**Associate Professor of Political Science at Inha University**, Incheon, South Korea (Chang-hee, //Asian Survey//, Vol. 46, No. 4 (July/August 2006), pp. 615-631, “Relocating the U.S. Forces in South Korea: Strained Alliance, Emerging Partnership in the Changing Defense Posture,” JSTOR, RBatra)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The possibility exists that the realignment could help **stabilize and expand public support for the ROK-U.S. alliance** by reducing tension between residents in the northern province near the DMZ and the U.S. armed forces. As explained above, the harming of civilians by the USFK has fueled anti-U.S. demonstrations and periodically **strained the ROK-U.S. alliance**. Seoul and Washington will be able to temper growing anti-U.S. resentment only by taking positive action, compensating for and minimizing such damage to civilians. To this end, the South Korean government has enacted a special law that allows generous administrative and financial privileges to the local government and residents of Osan and Pyeongtaek areas where U.S. bases are to be located. 34 This effort to stabilize the USFK’s public image by increasing the expenditure on the part of the Korean government will surely be viewed as a visible, longer-term commitment to the alliance. </span></span>

<span class="Heading2Char">The plan is key to defusing anti-Americanism and creating a broad, long-term alliance</span>
<span class="Heading2Char">Kang 3</span> (C.S. Eliot, **Associate Professor of Political Science – Northern Illinois University**, “Restructuring the US-South Korean Alliance to Deal with the Second Korean Nuclear Crisis”, Australian Journal of International Affairs, 57(2), July, p. 322)
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">Such a major overhaul of the alliance would be a</span></span> **<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";">positive development</span></span>** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">in bridging the current divide in the US-South Korea alliance</span></span>**.** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">For both Seoul and Washington, the dramatic scaling down of the USFK</span></span> and the termination of the CFC <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">would help to</span></span> **<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";">defuse</span></span>** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">a dangerous and growing anti-American nationalism in South Korea and would deny North Korea important points of contention that it has manipulated to win sympathy in South Korea</span></span>**.** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">If the result of the earlier ‘separation’ of the</span></span> <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">U</span></span>nited <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">S</span></span>tates <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">and the Philippines is a useful indicator</span></span>**,** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">the</span></span> <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">‘</span><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";">strategic distancing’</span></span> <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">being contemplated could have a</span></span> **<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";">salutary effect</span></span>** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">on the</span></span> **<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";">long-term</span></span>** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">bilateral relationship</span></span> <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">as less familiarity and intimacy seem to</span></span> **<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";">foster more respect</span></span>** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">and</span></span> **<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";">better cooperation</span></span>** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">on common security concerns</span></span>**.** 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Maintaining a small crew of ground troops with air and naval forces boosts the alliance</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Kim 99</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">—**Associate Professor at the Institute of Foreign Affairs & National Security** (Sung-Han, “Stability and Security on the Korean Peninsula: Developing a Research Agenda,” May 2009, [[http://www.cap.lmu.de/transatlantic/download/kim.doc]], RBatra)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">A third option is to maintain a minimum number of U.S. ground troops, perhaps around 3,000 to 5,000, along with naval and air forces, in a unified Korea. This alternative seems to be the most desirable in reality. The presence of U.S. ground troops, **no matter how small their number**, would bolster the Korea-U.S. alliance as a regional alliance. In this manner, the United States would be able to dampen a possible hegemonic struggle between China and Japan and negate the urgency of a unified Korea to go nuclear, which would be a major source of instability in Northeast Asia. From the standpoint of Korea, too, Seoul should contemplate how much it would really help Korea's national interests to possess, in an effort to appease public sentiments, nuclear arms that are likely to fuel regional instability in Northeast Asia.</span></span>

**Anti-Americanism destroys the alliance – if it’s rampant enough, the U.S. will lose all of its military presence**
**Lee 5** – **Dept. of political science, Korea University** (Nae-Young, “Changing South Korean Public Opinion on the US and the ROK- US Alliance,” May 10-11, 2005, http://www.ligi.ubc.ca/sites/liu/files/Publications/NaeYoungLeePaper1.pdf )
Moreover, a significant erosion of public support for the alliance is considered to further create obstacles for the alliance. The recent wave of anti-Americanism in South Korea has produced **a rift in the ROK-U.S. alliance**.2 Anti-Americanism in Korea has suddenly gained visibility since the ‘candle light protests’ of November and December 2002 in Seoul. The surge of anti-Americanism in December 2002 was qualitatively different in size and duration from previous incidents that manifested the anti-American sentiment. It was by far, the largest anti-American demonstration ever to be held in South Korea. As anti-Americanism was on the increase in South Korea, tensions were also rising on the Korean peninsula mainly because North Korea declared it would renew its nuclear weapons program. In the past, there had been a general pattern of increased public support for the ROK-U.S. alliance whenever a threat to national security arose. In December 2002, anti-Americanism continued to grow regardless of <span style="color: black;">the nuclear standoff with North Korea.</span>
Many journalists, both in South Korea and the United States, reported that rising anti-Americanism despite increasing security threats from North Korea inflicted **major damage on the ROK-U.S. alliance**. They argued that anti-Americanism in South Korea reflect a negative image of South Korea to the American public and U.S. government, and **could lead to negative consequences such as the withdrawal of the USFK.3**

**The alliance is key to stability in Northeast Asia – solves multiple scenarios for conflict**
**Sharp 10** (**Gen. Walter Sharp, Commander, United Nations Command/**Combined Forces Command/U.S. Forces Korea, Congressional Documents and Publications, March 26) Calum
A key part of U.S. security policy in Asia is the construction of a comprehensive strategic alliance with the ROK as specified in the June 2009 Joint Vision statement. This comprehensive strategic alliance will be bilateral, regional, and global in scope and will be based on common values and mutual trust. We will maintain a robust defense posture backed by allied capabilities which support both nations' security interests. Just as today, in the future the ROK-U.S. Alliance will remain vital to securing peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula and in Northeast Asia as a whole. The U.S. will maintain its commitment to the defense of the ROK through the employment of capabilities postured both on and off the Korean Peninsula. Similarly, the U.S. welcomes recent moves by the ROK to expand its role in the international community at a level that is commensurate with its growing international stature. The U.S. will continue to provide extended deterrence for the ROK using the full range of military capabilities to include the nuclear umbrella, conventional strike, and missile defense capabilities. As the ROK-U.S. Alliance evolves in the future, we will cooperate on a wide-ranging set of global security challenges that are of mutual interest to include peacekeeping activities, stabilization and reconstruction efforts, humanitarian assistance, and disaster relief. Over the next decade or so the security component of the Alliance will experience some of the most profound changes since the Mutual Defense Treaty was signed in 1953. Three of these key changes are the transition of wartime OPCON, relocation of U.S. forces stationed in the ROK onto two enduring hubs, and tour normalization. These transformational changes will strengthen the Alliance and enhance its stabilizing role on the Korean Peninsula and in the wider area of Northeast Asia. The <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">process </span></span>of change will also be supported by implementation of the ROK Defense Reform 2020 initiative. As the Alliance transforms, United Nations Command will continue to provide a coalition of 15 nations ready to provide support for defense of the ROK as well as conduct its armistice maintenance functions through the Military Armistice Commission. Through Alliance transformation we seek to build a better future for Koreans and Americans by establishing a durable peace on the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia and setting the conditions for peaceful reunification of the two Koreas. As Alliance partners, the ROK and U.S. will work together toward achieving complete and verifiable elimination of North Korea's nuclear and ballistic missile programs. In the Asia-Pacific region the Alliance will work jointly with regional institutions and partners to foster prosperity, maintain peace, and improve the daily lives of people. To enhance security in the Asia-Pacific area the ROK and U.S. governments will advocate for - and take part in - effective cooperative regional efforts to promote mutual understanding, confidence, and transparency regarding security issues among nations of this region. The two governments will also work closely to address the global challenges of the North Korean threat, terrorism, weapons of mass destruction proliferation, and piracy. The ROK and U.S. will also enhance coordination on peacekeeping operations and post-conflict stabilization and development assistance. In the end, the two countries will work toward achieving Alliance goals through strategic cooperation at every level. V. SUMMARY This year marks the 60th anniversary of the start of the Korean War. Thanks to the sacrifice and selfless service of a countless number of Koreans, Americans, and people of other nationalities, North Korea's aggression was repelled. This year also marks the 57th anniversary of signing the ROK-U.S. Mutual Defense Treaty. Thanks to the peace and stability created by the Alliance structures that emanated from this mutual defense pact, the ROK has been able to develop into a democratic industrialized state with a high standard of living and a growing role in the international community. By promoting peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula, the ROK-U.S. Alliance has not only set the conditions for successful development of the ROK over the last six decades, but also promoted peace and stability in the broader region of Northeast Asia - a region of key national interest to the U.S. 

**The alliance solves terror, prolif, human rights, energy security and Sino-Japan conflict**
**Kim, 9** – **professor of the Graduate School of International Studies at Korea University**, “The U.S.-ROK Alliance in the 21st Century,” ed. by Jung-Ho Bae and Abraham Denmark. “//Strengthening of the ROK-U.S. Alliance for the 21st Century.”// ” p. 354, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/US-ROK%20Alliance%20in%20the%2021st%20Century_Denmark%20and%20Fontaine.pdf) 
There are three reasons why the ROK-U.S. strategic alliance system is needed. First, it can work as an effective countermeasure against the struggle for regional hegemony between China and Japan as well as against new security threats. South Korea and the U.S. should cooperate even after the resolution of the North Korean nuclear issue to deal with security threats in the 21st century, including terrorism, proliferation of WMDs, the humanitarian crisis, energy security and in minimizing the possibility of struggle for hegemony between China and Japan.

**Causes nuclear war and collapses the economy**
**Samuels, 99** (Richard, **Professor of International Relations – MIT**, The U.S.-Japan Alliance: Past, Present, and Future, p. 6-7)
The same forces that lead China and Japan into an adversarial relationship in the first place might well push them to the brink of war. From a U.S. perspective, this would be disastrous, for several reasons: -War between two of America’s largest trading partners would be devastating to the U.S. economy -U.S. involvement would be difficult to avoid in a war between a former ally and a former enemy -War between a nuclear power and a threshold nuclear power would push the envelope in new and disconcerting ways -War between the two would be (another) humanitarian disaster -Nuclearization in Japan would press both Koreas to do the same, and perhaps pressure other Asian nations to follow suite. Even if China and Japan did not go to war, a Cold War between the two great powers could impose high costs on the region, and indeed the globe, if the last simmering conflict between two giants on the world scene has taught us anything. At a minimum, the remarkable (and hard-earned) domestic politics stability in Japan would further unravel, creating even greater uncertainties for its foreign policy and its evolving role as provider of global public goods.

<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Harris, PhD, 9</span><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">—Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, </span><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council (NIC</span><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, history may be more instructive than ever. While we continue to believe that the Great Depression is not likely to be repeated, the lessons to be drawn from that period include the **harmful effects on fledgling democracies** and multiethnic societies (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s) and on the **sustainability of multilateral institutions** (think League of Nations in the same period). There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century. For that reason, the ways in which **the potential for greater conflict could grow** would seem to be even more apt in a constantly volatile economic environment as they would be if change would be steadier. In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. **Terrorism**’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced. For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most **dangerous capabilities** within their reach. Terrorist groups in 2025 will likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups_inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that become self-radicalized, particularly in the absence of economic outlets that would become narrower in an economic downturn. The most dangerous casualty of any **economically****-induced drawdown of U.S. military presence** would almost certainly be the Middle East. Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable, worries about a nuclear-armed Iran could lead states i n the region to develop new security arrangements with external powers, **acquire additional weapons**, and consider pursuing their own **nuclear ambitions**. It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity conflict and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella could lead to an **unintended escalation** and **broader conflict** if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. The close proximity of potential **nuclear rivals** combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also will produce inherent difficulties in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, short warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty of Iranian intentions may place more focus on **preemption** rather than defense, potentially leading to **escalating crises**. 36 Types of conflict that the world continues to experience, such as over resources, could reemerge, particularly if protectionism grows and there is a resort to neo-mercantilist practices. Perceptions of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this could result in **interstate conflicts** if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources, for example, to be essential for maintaining domestic stability and the survival of their regime. Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. If the fiscal stimulus focus for these countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional naval capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves, but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes. With water also becoming scarcer in Asia and the Middle East, cooperation to manage changing water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in a more **dog-eat-dog world**. </span></span>

**Troop withdrawal won’t hurt the alliance**
**Feffer** **5** – co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the **Institute for Policy Studies** (John, “The Future of U.S.-South Korean Security Relations” [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_future_of_us-south_korean_security_relations]])
Finally, the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">United States and South Korea must grapple with issues related to U.S. ground forces.</span></span> In 2004, the Bush administration announced a one-third reduction of U.S. troops in South Korea. Over and above its political dimensions, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">this decision directly stems from a much longer process of force restructuring. The Pentagon’s assessment is essentially correct that troops in fixed positions with slow-moving tanks fight yesterday’s wars. U.S. deterrent capacity largely resides in firepower based **outside the peninsula**</span></span>, such as the Fifth Air Force and the Seventh Fleet in Japan. But this reality raises provocative questions. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Do U.S. forces in Korea serve only a symbolic rather than a deterrent function? And why didn’t the Bush administration consider troop reductions as a bargaining chip in negotiations with North Korea</span></span>? Several studies suggest that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">South Korea could repulse an attack by North Korea without U.S. support. </span></span>This should come as no surprise, since the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">South has been outspending the North in the military sphere by a factor of two since 1990</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The North Korean military has been adversely affected by food shortages, energy shortages, and spare part shortages, and North Korea’s military has not kept pace with the latest technological developments. </span></span>Les Aspin, former U.S. secretary of defense, has estimated that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">South Korea’s military strength represented 60% of the coalition forces arrayed against Iraq in the first Gulf War while North Korea’s represented 60% of the total Iraqi offensive force at that time. </span></span>And we all know the results of that unequal fight, even though Iraq, unlike North Korea, was a relatively prosperous oil-rich country. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">No one should underestimate North Korea’s ability to destroy Seoul with an artillery barrage or the North Korean military’s ability to fight against an invader. However, North Korea’s capacity for launching a conventional attack with troops and tanks is no longer the threat it was 50 or even 20 years ago, and it is this conventional type of attack that U.S. forces are prepared to counteract. c</span></span>But if U.S. forces stationed in Korea have largely lost their specific deterrent function, they still serve other roles. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The South Korean government values the U.S. military presence as a **concrete sign of alliance health** and U.S. commitment to its defense, **even if that defense would be largely undertaken by forces based outside the peninsula.**</span></span> And <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">North Korean leaders, it has been reported, are not opposed to a U.S. military presence even after unification--perhaps in a peacekeeping capacity</span></span>--<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">as an insurance policy against revived Japanese militarism. Moreover, there is the question of the impact that future U.S. troop reductions could have on investor confidence in South Korea.</span></span>

**This is especially true because we boost capability**
<span class="Heading2Char">Flake 6</span> (L. Gordon, **Executive Director – Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation**, “U.S.-South Korean Relations”, CQ Congressional Testimony, 9-27, Lexis)
In and of themselves, the transfer of wartime operational control and <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">even</span></span> the <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">redeployment and reduction</span></span> of U.S. troop levels on the peninsula <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">do not necessary speak of declining commitment to the alliance</span></span>**.** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">Military officials are correct to point out that we should </span><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";">focus on capability</span><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-weight: normal;">, which may in fact be enhanced, rather than structure or numbers</span></span>. However, if enacted as envisioned, particularly in the current political environment, it is easy to see the transfer of wartime operation control as tantamount to a divorce. The current joint command in Korea represents the only truly "joint" force in the world. The clear delineation of roles and reduced exposure to the increasingly suspect political will in Seoul for a potential conflagration that seems to be the objective in the U.S. support for transfer of wartime operation control would suggest at best a trial separation if not an amicable divorce. True, both the U.S. and the ROK proclaim unwavering support for the alliance and for the defense of the peninsula, but this support seems to be the equivalent of the assurances of separating parents that they are still "friends" and that they will still work together for the good of the child. The inevitable outcome appears to lay the groundwork for a much reduced U.S. presence on the Peninsula and, capabilities aside, a downgrade in the political perception of the alliance. In the end, as with the case with many divorces, this change may be for best, but it remains sad.

=<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">1AC plan</span>= 
**Plan: The United States federal government should remove the Second Infantry Division from South Korea.**

==New China-ROK Advantage== 

<span class="Underline">**Military presence in South Korea constrains China-ROK security and political relations and prevents regional security cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Snyder 10**—adjunct senior fellow for Korea studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, MA from the Regional Studies East Asia Program at Harvard University AND See-Won Byun, Research Associate, Center for U.S.-Korea Policy @ Asia Foundation, Research Associate, Center for U.S.-Korea Policy (Scott, September 2010, “China-ROK Trade Disputes and Implications for Managing Security Relations”, [[http://asiafoundation.org/resources/pdfs/SnyderByunChinaROK101012.pdf]], RBatra)</span>
<span class="Underline">Fourth, the management of China-ROK political and security relations has been suppressed in part by the existence of the U.S.-ROK alliance. The U.S.-ROK alliance imposes a constraint on the ability of China and South Korea to develop bilateral political and security understandings on their own. One area where this conflict becomes most apparent is in the conflict in view between China and the United States, South Korea, and Japan regarding the future development of a regional security architecture. While the Chinese view alliances and cooperative security as mutually exclusive, the United States, South Korea, and Japan have preferred pursuit of a “multilayered” structure in which U.S.-led alliances coexist with regional security frameworks for dialogue and cooperation. Given the importance of the U.S.-ROK alliance as a mechanism that serves to guarantee South Korea’s security, this tension between continued alliance coordination and possible new cooperative political-security mechanisms for addressing regional security issues will continue to be an issue of debate and a constraint on the development of the Sino-ROK political and security relationship.66 </span>
**Regional co-op is key to stop arms races, Asian conflict, and economic collapse**
**Bandow 10**—senior fellow at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy and civil liberties, former special assistant to President Reagan, J.D. from Standford U (Doug, Spring/ Summer 2010, International Journal of Korean Studies, "Promoting Long-Term Economic Growth: America and East Asia Working Together”, [[http://www.icks.org/publication/pdf/2010-SPRING-SUMMER/7.pdf]], p. 136-7, RBatra)
But prosperity also depends on the right political environment. For the last three decades all of the major powers in East Asia have been at peace. There have been tensions among them, to be sure. North Korea has been a particular problem. Nevertheless, the diminution of the threat of war has allowed countries throughout the Asia-Pacific to concentrate on economic development. To ensure that the region continues on its present course, China, other leading Asian nations, and the U.S. should resist the temptation to engage in an arms race, instead cooperating to create regional institutions likely to encourage both peace and stability. Obviously, the outbreak of war between any of the major states in the region would disrupt commerce between them and would, depending on its nature, scope and severity, have destabilizing effects throughout the region. Preventing conflict thus is the first responsibility of nations seeking to ensure continued regional growth.
Also important is avoiding a sustained regional arms race. Military outlays always divert economic resources to unproductive ends and often increase political tensions. With the world’s number 1, 2, 3, and 5 military spenders (U.S., China, Russia, Japan)26 either part of Asia or involved in Asia, as well as other nations with substantial military outlays (ROK, India), there is potential for wasteful military outlays to stoke fears, promote miscalculation, and raise tensions. We all would be poorer as a result.
Although military spending per se does not create wars, it is more likely to spark instability where countries already share difficult histories and conflicting geopolitical interests. The perception of a regional “zero sum game” is enhanced by the survival of Cold War relationships even though the Cold War is long over. The U.S. has been particularly creative in developing new justifications for old alliances. 
**Asian conflict causes global nuclear war**
<span class="Heading21Char">Landay 2k</span> (Jonathan S., National Security and Intelligence Correspondent, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, 3-10, Lexis)
<span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Few</span></span> if any experts <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">think China and Taiwan, North</span></span> Korea <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">and South Korea, or India and Pakistan are spoiling to fight. But even a minor miscalculation by any of them could destabilize Asia, jolt the global economy and</span></span> even <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">start</span></span> a <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nuclear war. India, Pakistan and China all have nuclear weapons, and North Korea</span></span> may have a few, <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">too. Asia lacks the</span></span> kinds of <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">organizations, negotiations and diplomatic relationships that helped keep</span></span> an uneasy <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">peace</span></span> for five decades <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in Cold War Europe. “Nowhere else</span></span> on Earth <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">are the stakes as high and relationships so fragile,” said</span></span> Bates <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Gill, director of northeast Asian policy studies at</span></span> the <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Brookings</span></span> Institution, a Washington think tank. “We see <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the convergence of great power interest</span></span> overlaid with lingering confrontations <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">with no institutionalized security mechanism</span></span> in place. There <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">are elements for</span></span> potential <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">disaster.”</span></span> In an effort to cool the region’s tempers, President Clinton, Defense Secretary William S. Cohen and National Security Adviser Samuel R. Berger all will hopscotch Asia’s capitals this month. For America, the stakes could hardly be higher. <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">There are 100,000 U.S. troops in Asia committed to defending Taiwan, Japan and South Korea, and the </span></span><span class="Style11ptUnderlineBorderSinglesolidlineAuto05pt"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">U</span></span>nited <span class="Style11ptUnderlineBorderSinglesolidlineAuto05pt"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">S</span></span>tates <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">would </span></span><span class="Style11ptBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">instantly</span></span><span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> become embroiled</span></span> if Beijing moved against Taiwan or North Korea attacked South Korea. While Washington has no defense commitments to either <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">India or Pakistan</span></span>, a <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">conflict</span></span> between the two <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">could end the global taboo against using nuclear weapons and demolish the</span></span> already <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">shaky</span></span> international <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nonprolif</span></span>eration <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">regime.</span></span> In addition, <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">globalization has made a stable Asia, with</span></span> its <span class="Style11ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">massive markets, cheap labor, exports and resources, indispensable to the U.S. economy. Numerous U.S. firms and millions of American jobs depend on trade with Asia</span></span> that totaled $600 billion last year, according to the Commerce Department.
<span class="Underline">**Plan solves ROK-China cooperation and strategic communication**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lee 10**—quoting Kim Dong-jin, who teaches at China University of Political Science and Law in Beijing (Sunny, 1 November 2010, “How to mend ties between S. Korea and China?”, [[http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2010/11/113_75592.html]], RBatra)</span>
<span class="Underline">In the aftermath of the Cheonan incident, South Koreans felt disappointed by what they perceived as China’s siding with North Korea. Actually, the disappointment was mutual, according to Kim.</span>
<span class="Underline">“Each side feels that something unduly was done by the other side. It’s like Seoul and Beijing saying to each other: ‘Why can’t you understand me?’” Kim said.</span>
<span class="Underline">According to Kim, China has long suspected that the alliance between South Korea and the U.S. was aimed at it. “In the aftermath of the Cheonan incident, and when the large-scale joint military exercises began, the joint move validated the Chinese suspicion that it was meant to topple North Korea.”</span>
<span class="Underline">In other words, Beijing did see the Cheonan incident and its ensuing repercussions as a conflict between the two Koreas, but essentially as a power game between it and Washington.</span>
<span class="Underline">Kim finds a failure of strategic communication as the culprit for the fallout of the incident.</span>
<span class="Underline">Several months have passed since the Cheonan incident. China wants to “turn the page” now, but South Korea believes that North Korea’s showing signs of sincerity regarding the tragic incident is a prerequisite.</span>
<span class="Underline">“Before the Cheonan, the Sino-South Korean relationship had been on honeymoon. It’s over now,” Kim said, adding the incident was just a beginning point of what is in store. And what is in store will likely be a challenge for the two countries.</span>
<span class="Underline">“The two countries will have to face ‘uncomfortable truths’ from now on, including disputes surrounding the territory, American troops stationed in South Korea, and the Northeast Project, to name just a few,” Kim said, warning what he calls “the world’s most robust nationalism” of the two countries is likely to exacerbate the situation.</span>
<span class="Underline">**The plan is the only way to solve**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lee 10**—quoting Kim Dong-jin, who teaches at China University of Political Science and Law in Beijing (Sunny, 1 November 2010, “How to mend ties between S. Korea and China?”, [[http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2010/11/113_75592.html]], RBatra)</span>
<span class="Underline">Kim then proceeded to ask a formidably uncomfortable question for the Lee Myung-bak administration to hear: “Does South Korea’s tilting completely toward the U.S. best serve its national interest?”</span>
<span class="Underline">With that, Kim notes another problem: “South Korea tends to see China through the American perspective.”</span>
<span class="Underline">“A fundamental paradigm shift is necessary in the Sino-Korean relationship. Koreans should stop seeing China through the American prism,” Kim said.</span>
<span class="Underline">**Our link is reverse causal—continued military presence will destroy ALL ROK-China relations**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kim 10**—Senior Research fellow, Korea Institute for Defense Analyses (Taewoo, 13 August 2010, </span>“Post-Cheonan Regional Security”, Center for U.S.-Korea Policy and The Asian Institute for Policy Studies, RBatra) **things in brackets were added in because the article seems to be translated into bad English from Korean**
**◇ Loss of inter-Korean dialogue channels, Absence of Exit Strategy: "Stop tension-heightening measures and encompass North Korea" "Make the U.S. stop the additional sanction against North Korea." "Revive the dialogue momentum."**
**◇ Six-party talks: "July 9 Chairman's statement of UNSC concluded the Cheonan case." "Accept the China-North Korea suggestion for resumption of six-party talks."**
**◇ Negative repercussion of the ROK-U.S. military drill: "South Korea is dragged into the U.S.-initiated anti-China containment policy," "The Drill revives Cold War confrontation on and around [the] Korean peninsula."**
**◇ ROK-China relations: "Concentration on the ROK-U.S. alliance will destroy the ROK-China relations" "Have empathy with China."**
**◇ "In sum, MB government's absence of [an] exit strategy and tension-heightening measures coupled with the ROK-U.S. naval drill and U.S. additional sanctions hurt the Korean stability and precipitate [a] new confrontational regional order.”**
Relations solve regional stability
Snyder 10**—adjunct senior fellow for Korea studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, MA from the Regional Studies East Asia Program at Harvard University AND See-Won Byun, Research Associate, Center for U.S.-Korea Policy @ Asia Foundation, Research Associate, Center for U.S.-Korea Policy (Scott, September 2010, “China-ROK Trade Disputes and Implications for Managing Security Relations”, [[http://asiafoundation.org/resources/pdfs/SnyderByunChinaROK101012.pdf]], RBatra)**
**Although the upgrading of bilateral ties in 2008 showed how both sides recognize the growing importance of stable China-ROK security relations for building mutual trust and enhancing regional stability, the existing institutional framework for strategic coordination remains relatively weak.35 The impact of the sinking of the ROK warship, Cheonan, in March 2010 highlighted serious gaps in China-ROK coordination on bilateral, peninsular, and regional security challenges despite close economic ties. As the Sejong Institute’s Lee Sang-hyun argues, the Cheonan incident demonstrated the urgent need to create “a permanent and stable” institution for dealing with Korean peninsula security matters.36**
Relations lead to political cooperation that solves warming
Xinhua 10 **(30 April 2010, “China willing to boost China-ROK relations: President Hu”, [[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/china/2010-04/30/c_13274296.htm]], RBatra)**
**The two countries should strengthen cooperation and step up the development of the China-ROK free trade area, while deepening understanding between their people.**
**Hu said the two countries should well plan and successfully hold activities in the "Visit China Year 2010" and the upcoming "Visit South Korea Year 2012".**
**"We should strengthen cooperation between China, Japan and the ROK, within the framework of the 10+3 mechanism and in the process of East Asia integration," said Hu, suggesting the two countries continue their close cooperation in the reform to the United Nations and the Security Council, as well as on issues concerning climate change.**
**Lee Myung-bak said the ROK side was satisfied with the sound development of bilateral relations since the two countries forged the strategic cooperation partnership in 2008.**
**The ROK was ready to work with China to deepen trade and economic cooperation and promote the development of the ROK-China free trade area, he said, expressing the hope that both the ROK and China take the opportunity of the G20 Summit slated for the last half of this year in the ROK to enhance communication and coordination between the two countries on global issues concerning the world economy, finance and climate change.**
Warming is real & anthropogenic – causes extinction
Deibel 7 **(Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today, cut by [presumably] Lexington)**
**Finally, there is one major existential threat to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, which, though far in the future, demands urgent action. It is the threat of global warming to the stability of the climate upon which all earthly life depends. Scientists worldwide have been observing the gathering of this threat for three decades now, and what was once a mere possibility has passed through probability to near certainty. Indeed not one of more than 900 articles on climate change published in refereed scientific journals from 1993 to 2003 doubted that anthropogenic warming is occurring. “In legitimate scientific circles,” writes Elizabeth Kolbert, “it is virtually impossible to find evidence of disagreement over the fundamentals of global warming.” Evidence from a vast international scientific monitoring effort accumulates almost weekly, as this sample of newspaper reports shows: an international panel predicts “brutal droughts, floods and violent storms across the planet over the next century”; climate change could “literally alter ocean currents, wipe away huge portions of Alpine Snowcaps and aid the spread of cholera and malaria”; “glaciers in the Antarctic and in Greenland are melting much faster than expected, and…worldwide, plants are blooming several days earlier than a decade ago”; “rising sea temperatures have been accompanied by a significant global increase in the most destructive hurricanes”; “NASA scientists have concluded from direct temperature measurements that 2005 was the hottest year on record, with 1998 a close second”; “Earth’s warming climate is estimated to contribute to more than 150,000 deaths and 5 million illnesses each year” as disease spreads; “widespread bleaching from Texas to Trinidad…killed broad swaths of corals” due to a 2-degree rise in sea temperatures. “The world is slowly disintegrating,” concluded Inuit hunter Noah Metuq, who lives 30 miles from the Arctic Circle. “They call it climate change…but we just call it breaking up.” From the founding of the first cities some 6,000 years ago until the beginning of the industrial revolution, carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere remained relatively constant at about 280 parts per million (ppm). At present they are accelerating toward 400 ppm, and by 2050 they will reach 500 ppm, about double pre-industrial levels. Unfortunately, atmospheric CO2 lasts about a century, so there is no way immediately to reduce levels, only to slow their increase, we are thus in for significant global warming; the only debate is how much and how serious the effects will be. As the newspaper stories quoted above show, we are already experiencing the effects of 1-2 degree warming in more violent storms, spread of disease, mass die offs of plants and animals, species extinction, and threatened inundation of low-lying countries like the Pacific nation of Kiribati and the Netherlands at a warming of 5 degrees or less the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets could disintegrate, leading to a sea level of rise of 20 feet that would cover North Carolina’s outer banks, swamp the southern third of Florida, and inundate Manhattan up to the middle of Greenwich Village. Another catastrophic effect would be the collapse of the Atlantic thermohaline circulation that keeps the winter weather in Europe far warmer than its latitude would otherwise allow. Economist William Cline once estimated the damage to the United States alone from moderate levels of warming at 1-6 percent of GDP annually; severe warming could cost 13-26 percent of GDP. But the most frightening scenario is runaway greenhouse warming, based on positive feedback from the buildup of water vapor in the atmosphere that is both caused by and causes hotter surface temperatures. Past ice age transitions, associated with only 5-10 degree changes in average global temperatures, took place in just decades, even though no one was then pouring ever-increasing amounts of carbon into the atmosphere. Faced with this specter, the best one can conclude is that “humankind’s continuing enhancement of the natural greenhouse effect is akin to playing Russian roulette with the earth’s climate and humanity’s life support system. At worst, says physics professor Marty Hoffert of New York University, “we’re just going to burn everything up; we’re going to heat the atmosphere to the temperature it was in the Cretaceous when there were crocodiles at the poles, and then everything will collapse.” During the Cold War, astronomer Carl Sagan popularized a theory of nuclear winter to describe how a thermonuclear war between the Untied States and the Soviet Union would not only destroy both countries but possibly end life on this planet. Global warming is the post-Cold War era’s equivalent of nuclear winter at least as serious and considerably better supported scientifically. Over the long run it puts dangers from terrorism and traditional military challenges to shame. It is a threat not only to the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet.**
China is South Korea’s largest trade partner—continued relations are key to the ROK economy
Lee 10 **(Hyo-sik, 1 February 2010, “US Loses Clout on Korean Economy”, [[http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/biz/2010/10/123_60075.html]], RBatra)**
**On the other hand, Korea's trade dependence on China has increased at an explosive pace since the two countries began diplomatic relations in 1992.**
**South Korea's exchange of agricultural and industrial goods with the world's fastest-growing economy reached 20.5 percent last year, up from 2.9 percent in 1991.**
**Korea exported 23.9 percent of its outbound shipments to the neighboring country in 2009, up from 1.4 percent, with 16.8 percent of its imports coming from China, up from 4.2 percent.**
**The U.S. has become less important to Korea economically over the years, with the latter increasingly relying on China, the European Union and other economies for growth.**
**"Korea is the sixth-largest trading partner of the U.S. and a key Asian economy strategically located in Northeast Asia. American policymakers and businesses should be alert over their diminishing economic influence over Korea," LG Economic Research Institute managing director Oh Moon-suk said.**
**Oh said if the U.S. continues to remain reluctant to sign the free trade pact with Korea, the Asian nation will continue to move closer toward China and the European Union, adding the EU will likely sign a free trade accord with Korea before the U.S. does.**
**Touching on Korea's growing trade ties with China, he said Beijing has emerged as the country's largest trading partner in just over 10 years after the two opened their borders to each other in 1992.**
**"Korea's growing trade reliance on China was also the result of the nation's efforts to diversify its export destinations, which proved to be quite successful. The country should continue to expand economic ties with China and try to establish an even larger presence there," Oh said.**
**The economist stressed domestic businesses should take advantage of the world's fastest-growing economy to become globally competitive.**
**"But at the same time, they will be affected more severely if something goes wrong in China. To hedge against the growing China risk, Korean firms should continue to explore new foreign markets and establish a presence in countries in the Middle East and South America," he said.**
Causes Korean war and global depression
Korea Times, 98 **(9/23/98, “Seoul, Tokyo Underestimate Opportunity For Cooperation” pg online @ lexisnexis//au)**
**As North Korea's future becomes unclear, and South Korea has faced an economic crisis, adjustments between Seoul and Tokyo over North Korea policy have begun to take on a strategic meaning. Our worst-case scenarios would be for North Korea to collapse before South Korea can economically rebuild itself. If that type of nightmare becomes a reality, South Korea would not be able to bear the huge cost necessary for North Korea's relief and rehabilitation. Even in the minimum calculations, the cost would probably be several times the size of the present foreign debts (150 billion dollars). However, if the South Korean economy collapses totally, it would affect Japan and would trigger a global depression from Japan.'' Basically, even if we could avoid a second Korean War, we are on the same boat.**
The impact is multiple scenarios for nuclear war**
Harris & Burrows 2009 Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, history may be more instructive than ever. While we continue to believe that the Great Depression is not likely to be repeated, the lessons to be drawn from that period include the harmful effects on fledgling democracies and multiethnic societies (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s) and on the sustainability of multilateral institutions (think League of Nations in the same period). There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century. For that reason, the ways in which the potential for greater conflict could grow would seem to be even more apt in a constantly volatile economic environment as they would be if change would be steadier. In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. Terrorism’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced. For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most dangerous capabilities within their reach. Terrorist groups in 2025 will likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups_inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that become self-radicalized, particularly in the absence of economic outlets that would become narrower in an economic downturn. The most dangerous casualty of any economically-induced drawdown of U.S. military presence would almost certainly be the Middle East. Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable, worries about a nuclear-armed Iran could lead states i n the region to develop new security arrangements with external powers, acquire additional weapons, and consider pursuing their own nuclear ambitions. It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity conflict and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella could lead to an unintended escalation and broader conflict if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. The close proximity of potential nuclear rivals combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also will produce inherent difficulties in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, short warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty of Iranian intentions may place more focus on preemption rather than defense, potentially leading to escalating crises. 36 Types of conflict that the world continues to experience, such as over resources, could reemerge, particularly if protectionism grows and there is a resort to neo-mercantilist practices. Perceptions of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this could result in interstate conflicts if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources, for example, to be essential for maintaining domestic stability and the survival of their regime. Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. If the fiscal stimulus focus for these countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional naval capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves, but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes. With water also becoming scarcer in Asia and the Middle East, cooperation to manage changing water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

==North Korea Advantage== 
U.S. deterrence in Korea fails and only provokes the North. The root cause of all prior attacks as well as North Korean prolif is U.S. hostile policy. Troop withdrawal prevents war with North Korea and China.
Beal 12/13—Senior Lecturer at Victoria University of Wellington and the editor of The Pyongyang Report, PhD in China’s terms of trade, MA with Honors in modern Chinese studies (Tim, 13 December 2010, “A Second Korean War would become a Sino-American War”, http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1012/S00127/a-second-korean-war-would-become-a-sino-american-war.htm, RBatra)
The US-ROK joint military exercises not merely prepare for a possible invasion of North Korea but they also serve as weapons of attrition. They force North Korea to devote much more of its resources to the military than it would if there were no palpable threat. An important component of the exercise is their element of ambiguity. The Korean People’s Army (KPA) can never be sure when a feint might become the real thing, so every exercise has to be taken very seriously. The translation of this commentary from the Rodong Sinmun on the Key Resolve and Foal Eagle exercises in 2009 may be fractured but the underling fear of attack is clear: The said largest-scale saber rattling kicked off by the U.S. imperialists against the DPRK at a time when their scenario for the second Korean war is at the final stage of completion is a very adventurous and dangerous military provocation that can be seen only on the eve of a war, and this is an undisguised military threat and a sort of declaration of war against the DPRK. No one can vouch that the U.S. imperialist bellicose elements will not ignite a war against the DPRK by surprise while reinforcing armed forces and staging war maneuvers in south Korea and its vicinity as they did in Iraq.[18] It is important to note that the clash at Yeonpyeong Island coincided with a substantial military exercise, the Hoguk (‘Safeguarding the Nation’): North Korea fired the artillery during South Korea’s military drill called the Hoguk Exercise on Nov. 22-30 that involves 70,000 South Korean military troops, 50 warships, 90 helicopters and 500 planes. The 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit (MEU) of U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. Seventh Air Force will also participate in the exercise.[19] The scheduled participation of the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit (MEU) is particularly significant.[20] The 31st MEU is based in Okinawa and it is America’s ‘forward deployed rapid-response’ unit in East Asia. It trains with the ROK marines practicing beach landings, but its major specialism appears to be urban warfare. [21] One of its possible functions is to mount a commando type raid on the DPRK. A Japanese scholar writing in the authoritative PACNET newsletter of Pacific Forum CSIS (the Honolulu branch of the Washington think tank Center for Strategic and International studies rather gave the game away about the ‘North Korean threat’ by putting it thus: As a collapse of North Korea -- rather than a North Korean invasion of South Korea -- has become a more likely scenario, the 31st MEU can search and seize the North Korean nuclear arsenal, and prevent proliferation of those weapons[22] It is not surprising therefore that the KPA was concerned about the Hoguk exercise and responded to the ROK live firing in line with the ‘zero tolerance’ strategy. However, concerns extend beyond specific military exercises, to the whole policy of building up of tension in preparation for a crisis that would lead to an invasion of the North. The KPA barrage can be seen as a message that an attack would be met by a devastating counteroffensive which would, at the very least, imperil Seoul; it was a reminder that ‘Seoul [is] not safe from artillery attacks’.[23] The DPRK’s ‘zero tolerance’ strategy The DPRK’s ‘zero tolerance’ policy long predates the Lee Myung-bak administration, let alone the present crisis. Basically this strategy is to reiterate than no infringement of DPRK territory will be tolerated, and any intrusion will be met by force. There has been flexibility and restraint in implementing this strategy, especially in respect of the NLL (see below), but the underlying strategic calculation is that any sign of weakness will lead to further US and ROK moves against the DPRK. The case of the US invasion of Iraq is often cited by the North Koreans of the dangers of an appeasement policy. This is often raised in respect of the nuclear deterrent. For instance, Alexander Frolov, writing recently in the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs journal International Affairs on lessons from the Iraq war made the point: The leadership in N. Korea also realized that nothing less than a nuclear status can guarantee the country against US aggression. [24] However, the relevance of Iraq to the non-appeasement policy goes beyond developing a nuclear deterrent. For instance, in May 2003 after a breakdown in US-DPRK negotiations, the official Korea Central News Agency (KCNA) in a lengthy statement included a reference to Iraq: On March 20 this year the U.S. provoked a war of aggression against Iraq under the pretext of "finding out weapons of mass destruction" in a bid to topple the Saddam government. The Iraqi war taught the lesson that "nuclear suspicion," "suspected development of weapons of mass destruction" and suspected "sponsorship of terrorism" touted by the U.S. were all aimed to find a pretext for war and one would fall victim to a war when one meekly responds to the IAEA's inspection for disarmament. Neither strong international public opinion nor big countries' opposition to war nor the UN Charter could prevent the U.S. from launching the Iraqi war. It is a serious lesson the world has drawn from the Iraqi war that a war can be averted and the sovereignty of the country and the security of the nation can be protected only when a country has a physical deterrent force, a strong military deterrent force capable of decisively repelling any attack to be made by any types of sophisticated weapons. The reality indicates that building up a physical deterrent force is urgently required for preventing the outbreak of a nuclear war on the Korean Peninsula and ensuring peace and security of the world, now that the U.S. does not show any political intention and will to renounce its hostile policy toward the DPRK. The DPRK will increase its self-defensive capacity strong enough to destroy aggressors at a single stroke. Any U.S. aerial attack will be decisively countered with aerial attack and its land strategy will be coped with land strategy. [25] In reality, a North Korean counter offensive would not match like with like - ‘aerial attack will be decisively countered with aerial attack and its land strategy will be coped with land strategy.’ The DPRK cannot hope to match US military power (especially in the air) so its offensive would be asymmetrical, drawing on its strengths.[26] It would probably utilise its special forces, submarines, and in particular its artillery[27] As noted, the frequent war exercises, the integration of the ROK military into the US command structure, and the associated operational plans, are seen by the DPRK as very threatening: [The United States] made public "strategic guideline No. 1" in November 1978 and thus officially announced the formation of the "Combined Forces Command" in south Korea. It saw to it that the "Combined Forces Command" took over the "UN Forces Command's" Operation Control of the U.S. forces in south Korea and puppet army. The organization of the "Combined Forces Command" deepened the military dependence of south Korea on the United States and increased the danger for an outbreak of a new war on the Korean Peninsula. The Team Spirit joint military exercises for invading the north had been escalated as a large-scale war exercises involving huge armed forces over100,000-200,000 strong from 1978. Such joint military exercises as the Reception, Staging, Onward Movement and Integration (RSOI), Ulji Focus Lens and Foal Eagle have been staged almost every day as planned and directed by the command. The aggressive and bellicose nature of the command has remained unchanged even after the June 15 era [the 2000 North-South summit], a new era of reconciliation and cooperation, was ushered in on the Korean Peninsula. Many war scenarios against the north including "OPLAN 5030", "New OPLAN 5026" and "OPLAN 8022-02" have been worked out and war exercises to carry them into practice conducted in a more frenzied way. This year the command changed the codenames of the RSOI and Ulji Focus Lens with Key Resolve and Ulji Freedom Guardian and is holding actual maneuvers to hurl U.S. imperialist aggression forces in the mainland and abroad into Korean front. It goes without saying that such war exercises and arms buildup had have negative effect on the north-south relations and chilled the ardent desire for the Korean people for reunification. The south Korean people thus press for the dissolution of the "Combined Forces Command" disturbing peace in Korea and obstructing her reunification. The south Korea-U.S. "Combined Forces Command", a tool for war of aggression and a source of permanent atmosphere of war and tension on the Korean Peninsula, should be disbanded without delay. [28] The most famous example of the efficacy of the strategy is the reported argument between President Kim Young-sam and President Bill Clinton in 1994. According to Kim, Clinton wanted to bomb the North Korea nuclear reactor at Yongbyon. A 2003 BBC report recounted the tale: "Clinton told me that he would launch an immediate bombardment on the Yongbyon area. Clinton was very determined about it, but I argued to him that such an attack should never take place," said Mr Kim. "So there was quite an argument between him and me. Sometimes the phone conversations lasted more than 40 minutes," he said. Mr Clinton first revealed the 1994 plan to attack North Korea last month, but said nothing of the alleged dispute with the South. Mr Kim said that a US attack would have led to a tremendous loss of life, and would have turned Seoul into a "sea of fire". "Finally I told him that if the United States attacks North Korea, I cannot send one single member of South Korea's 650,000 armed forces into battle." [29] Kim’s version of events was contradicted by Tong Kim (Kim Dong-hyun) a Korean-American who worked as an interpreter for the State Department for over 30 years. According to him, It simply is not the case [...]. There was no discussion about a possible U.S. attack on North Korea between the two presidents via phone. Such discussions indeed took place between their defense ministers Kwon Young-hae and William Perry with the South Korean minister obviously opposed to the military action.[30] The consequences of a Northern counterattack, and specifically an artillery offense against Seoul, was not the only consideration, although it was the main one. A South Korean simulation exercise predicted that ‘bombing of North Korea’s nuclear facilities could in the worst case make the whole of Korea uninhabitable for a decade’.[31] The bombing of Yongbyon was but one variant of the ‘military option’ that the United States has been examining, albeit the favoured one.[32] The release of radioactivity aside, an US attack would mean war with immense devastation of the Korea peninsula, so it is to be expected that there has been, in the past, opposition across the political spectrum, from progressive President Roh Moo-hyun to conservative legislator Park Jin.[33] The exception to that have been those, such as Lee Myung-bak, who pin their hopes on a collapse that would prevent the North from making a counterattack. This is an ongoing issue but as long as the DPRK functions as a viable state, committed and able, to retaliate, then there will be no attack. Part of the reason for the vigorous response at Yeonpyeong was presumably to demonstrate that the KPA was still in business. The DPRK has been threatened, and blockaded, by the United States for decades, but unlike various other countries, it has not been invaded, or bombed. To that degree the zero-tolerance strategy can be said to work. But it has its disadvantages. It is a high-risk strategy. If there is a miscalculation or a misunderstanding, or ‘maverick’ action by soldiers on the front line, then the situation could rapidly whirl out of control. War would be disastrous for North Korea, despite the brave words. It would have grave consequences for the South, and Japan. If it spread to China the results are incalculable, but it might mean the end of the United States, that ‘fragile empire’ as Niall Ferguson recently termed it.[34] It is a variant of the mutually assured destruction of the Cold War period, a bluff that is effective because it is credible, but a bluff that if put into action would be catastrophic. In this case, the destruction would not be equivalent. The DPRK would suffer more than other countries, but the ROK and the US would suffer unacceptable damage and that could be considered sufficient to keep the peace. The strategy has other disadvantages. It allows the DPRK to be portrayed as belligerent, and certainly the coverage of the Yeonpyeong incident, within South Korea, and internationally has been virtually uniformly hostile. Not everyone has jumped on to the bandwagon and there are those, in particular Korean-Americans, who oppose the drift towards war and call for engagement.[35] But these are only a tiny minority. The strategy also runs counter to the main thrust of DPRK strategy which is to negotiate the United States into accepting peaceful coexistence. Recourse to confrontation, and military action, makes that more difficult to prosecute. Finally, it gives a hostage to fortune. The other side (here South Korea but in other circumstances it could be the US) can construct a provocation knowing that it will trigger a response that can be labelled as belligerent. The trick here is to do something which the DPRK regards as provocative but which can be disguised as normal and legitimate. The military exercises in general fall within this category. For the DPRK (and China) they are intimidating and provocative, but that is not how they are described in the Western media. No doubt if the tables were turned and it was a North Korean carrier stalking up the American coast, perceptions would be different. In the particular case of Yeonpyeong the ROK did something that was portrayed as legitimate and non-threatening but which the DPRK found intolerable. To understand why that was so we must turn to the curious case of the Northern Limit Line (NLL) Northern Limit Line The Northern Limit Line is a very strange beast, as a glance at the map shows (fig 1). Fig 1: Contested seas: The NLL and the MDL 1.Yeonpyeong Island (artillery clash) 2.Baengnyeong Island (Cheonan sinking) 3.Daecheong Island 4. Incheon Airport 5.Seoul 6.Incheon 7.Haeju 8.Kaesong 9.Ganghwa County 10.Bukdo Myeon 11.Deokjeok Myeon 12.Jawol Myeon 13.Yeongheung Myeon On this map #1 indicates Yeonpyeong Island where the artillery clash took place, and #2 Baengnyeong Island, off which the Cheonan sank. The upper(blue) line represents the Northern Limit Line (NLL) and the lower (red) one the West Sea Military Demarcation Line (MDL) claimed by the DPRK. The NLL was unilaterally established by the Americans (officially the United Nations Command) in August 1953.[36] The NLL, instead of striking out directly from the coast at the end of the land Military Demarcation Line (MDL), snakes up the west coast of North Korea, through rice crab fish grounds, and taking in various islands the main three of which are .Yeonpyeong (1) , Baengnyeong (2), and Daecheong (3). It has been argued that it was set up to prevent Southern incursions into Northern waters (Syngman Rhee had not signed the Armistice Agreement and wanted the war to continue), although it would be more plausible to see it also as affording bases for inserting intelligence and commando teams. Be that as it may, by the 1990s commando raids were a thing of the past, and yet the ROK refused to negotiate. This despite two major incidents in 1999 and 2002 which were a distinct threat to the ‘Sunshine Policy of then president Kim Dae-jung.[37] There was a further clash in November 2009 under the presidency of Lee Myung-bak.[38] This 2009 incident may have owed something to the more assertive North Korea policy of the Lee administration.[39] The NLL did not receive much international attention until the Cheonan incident of March 2010. There were a number of reasons for this. Most of the causalities in the past were Northern and so, in the eyes of most of the international media, perhaps warranted less attention. The Cheonan was the largest single disaster for the ROK navy. Many commentators were quick to point out what a dangerous situation the sinking of the Cheonan illustrated. Typical was Nicole Finnegan of the Washington-based Korea Economic Institute: Regardless of what we learn the true cause of the tragedy to be, the sinking of the Cheonan has revived fear and debates on how easily North and South Korea could lurch into war unexpectedly.[40] There is nothing new in these concerns. The NLL by its unilateral nature, its configuration close to the North Korean coast, and running through highly prized crab grounds, is a recipe for conflict. Fishing boats from both South and North sometimes ignore the NLL during the crab season and their respective navies tend to follow them. The NLL is also at variance with the now standard territorial sea limit of 12 nautical miles.[41] Writing in 2002, after the clash of June that year, John Barry Kotch and Michael Abbey, point out that: If the two Koreas are genuinely committed to reconciliation, these differences can be resolved through negotiation, thereby preventing future incidents. A line that was drawn more than a half-century ago for an entirely different purpose should no longer be allowed to fester as a source of conflict, thereby retarding the peace process.[42] The differences were not resolved, so the question is why? If this failure to negotiate a resolution had just occurred during the Lee Myung-bak administration it might not have been surprising. But this was during the time of Kim Dae-jung and Roh Moo-hyun. It is clear that a resolution would have meant the South abandoning the NLL and agreeing to something approximating the North’s line. It seems extremely unlikely that anyone in the DPRK would have opposed that. Although the NLL was established by the UNC, it appears that it is not longer involved, officially at least. It may well be that unofficially it is very much involved; the relationship between the US and ROK military seems to be unexplored territory. Whatever the role of Americans behind the scenes it seems clear that resolution of the NLL was opposed, successfully, by the ROK military. This opposition presumably was partly due to natural inertia – nobody likes giving up territory – but it must have gone deeper than that. The logical conclusion is that there were strong forces in the ROK political elite, revolving around the military, who wanted to keep the NLL precisely because it would “to fester as a source of conflict, thereby retarding the peace process” Fig 2: measuring policy change: KCNA mentions of the NLL over two administrations All of the previous conflicts around the NLL had been at sea, and the artillery duel at Yeonpyeong was the first one on land. To understand how that came about we must return to the map. It appears that the DPRK acknowledges ROK control over the islands, but claims these are its territorial waters, except for the access channels shown on the map.[43] Whilst the NLL has long been a bone of contention, the situation has greatly worsened since the Lee Myung-bak administration came into office. One rough way of measuring that is to calculate the number of times the official KCNA news agency mentions the North Limit Line. Roh Moo-hyun was in office from 25 February 2003 to 25 February 2008 when Lee Myung-bak took over. Fig 2 shows the monthly average of NLL stories over those two administrations. This is admittedly an imperfect metric but the difference between the two administrations is compelling: under Lee Myung-bak the number of North Korean complaints rose nearly three-fold. In March 2008, for instance, the KPA navy warned: Combined firepower drills for "striking and destroying" warships of the Navy of the Korean People's Army and drills for tactical naval maneuvers are staged on Paekryong, Taechong and Yonphyong Islets and in waters around them almost everyday. A situation in which an armed conflict may break out any moment is prevailing in the frontline waters in the West Sea due to the reckless military provocations of the south Korean military warmongers. Any attempt on the part of the south Korean military authorities to "protect" the "northern limit line" at any cost would only spark off a clash in the said waters.[44] The following year, as the Lee administration moved to join the US-led Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI) the KPA navy issued another warning: 3. For the present, we will not guarantee the legal status of the five islands under the south side's control (Paekryong, Taechong, Sochong, Yonphyong [ and U islands) in our side's territorial waters northwest of the extension of the Military Demarcation Line in the West Sea of Korea and safe sailing of warships of the U.S. imperialist aggression forces and the south Korean puppet navy and civilian ships operating in the waters around there.[45] The PSI is in many ways similar to the NLL. It is unilateral and illegal. The PSI claims that a set of nations – the US and its clients – are above international law and may stop and search ships on the high seas. Ostensibly this is to stop the shipping of weapons of mass destruction which given the United States pre-eminence in the international arms trade smacks of a certain degree of chutzpah.[46] Indeed, as Hazel Smith has documented, ‘There is little hard evidence that the government of North Korea is involved in the illicit shipping of WMD or components of WMD’.[47] The PSI seems to be really about harassing the DPRK and stoking tension, and that also holds for the NLL. The NLL seems to have been much more successful in attaining these objectives so far than the PSI. The NLL was perhaps only peripheral to the Cheonan incident. True the ship sank in disputed waters, and had the NLL not existed, but the two Koreas had been separated by a mutually agreed maritime border, the sinking would probably not have occurred. It appears that it ran aground in shallow waters and in an attempt to extricate itself was sunk by one of the South’s mines.[48] Nevertheless, the actual sinking of the Cheonan appears to have been an accident; it was the subsequent investigation that was deliberately fraudulent. The Yeonpyeong incident is different in that it occurred because of a deliberate provocation by the South. The artillery duel at Yeonpyeong As to be expected there is much that is uncertain and contested about this incident. But the essentials can be traced. The media tends to give the impression that the North Korean barrage against the marine base on Yeonpyeong island on 23 November came out of the blue, with nothing preceding it. The Chosun Ilbo specifically makes that claim: … the latest artillery bombardment on Yeonpyeong Island came completely out of the blue, and there is no way of telling when, where and how North Korea will strike next.[49] A rather more nuanced version is the Washington Post narrative, with the North launching a barrage and the South responding: North Korea launched a massive artillery barrage on a South Korean island Tuesday, killing two South Korean marines, wounding at least 19 other people and setting more than 60 buildings ablaze in the most serious confrontation since the North's sinking of a South Korean warship in March. South Korea immediately responded with its own artillery fire and put its fighter jets on high alert, bringing the two sides - which technically have remained in a state of war since the Korean armistice in 1953 - close to the brink of a major conflagration[50] No mention here of the South’s arms buildup on the island, the North’s warnings, the provocative nature of the Northern Limit Line, or the threatening military exercises. Back in 2008 the KPA complained about the ROK introducing new weaponry into the NLL islands: They also issued an order to batteries of 155 mm caliber howitzers and various type guided weapons deployed on the above-said five islets to be ready to go into action.[51] The KPA statement also claimed that: Combined firepower drills for "striking and destroying" warships of the Navy of the Korean People's Army and drills for tactical naval maneuvers are staged on Paekryong, Taechong and Yonphyong Islets and in waters around them [take place] almost everyday. A situation in which an armed conflict may break out any moment is prevailing in the frontline waters in the West Sea due to the reckless military provocations of the south Korean military warmongers. Any attempt on the part of the south Korean military authorities to "protect" the "northern limit line" at any cost would only spark off a clash in the said waters. [52] The live fire drills that the ROK conducted on 23 November were not just artillery practice; they were specifically focussed on possible combat against KPA ships in waters around the island. However, it was the specific contested status of those waters, in a tense situation exacerbated by the military exercises since the Cheonan incident, which sparked the North Korean response. It appears that the North warned the South against the drills, but the warnings were disregarded. The Seoul newspaper Chosun Ilbo reported on 24 November that: North Korea in a telegram on Tuesday morning [23 November] criticized an annual South Korean defense drill now underway. The same afternoon the North Korean military fired on Yeonpyeong Island. An official at the Joint Chiefs of Staff said, "At around 8:20 am. on Tuesday, North Korea sent a telegram that said they would not sit idly by and watch if South Korea fire at North Korean waters during the military training." North Korea already criticized the drill on Nov. 17 on the website of the Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland and again on Monday when the drill began. But the military dismissed North Korea's claims, saying an artillery firing drill by the Marine Corps that took place in Yeonpyeong Island on Tuesday had nothing to do with the annual drill but was a part of monthly training there. Moreover, the drill the North cited as an excuse for the attack is an annual routine drill which has been conducted by the South Korean military since 1996. A spokesman for the Joint Chiefs of Staff said, "The training was directed at South Korean waters to the southwest of Yeonpyeong Island, and the training site had been announced already through the international network of communication of merchant ships.[53] To say that the marine artillery drills had nothing to do with the Hoguk exercise seems to be a sophism. Moreover, the warnings stretched further back. The information available on the English-language KCNA website is only a portion of the published Korean-language material, and on top of that there are the direct communications between North and South (such as the telegram mentioned above). However, there is enough English-language for us to get a certain picture of preceding events, even though often the English translation is of poor quality.’ Fig3: Smoke from rocket fire over Yeonpyeong island This picture taken on November 23, 2010 by a South Korean tourist shows huge plumes of smoke rising from Yeonpyeong island in the disputed waters of the Yellow Sea on November 23, 2010. North Korea fired dozens of artillery shells onto a South Korean island on November 23, 2010, killing four people, setting homes ablaze and triggering an exchange of fire as the South's military went on top alert. (STR/AFP/Getty Images) On the 4th of June 2010 a Rodong Sinmun editorial headed ‘S. Korean Accused of Dangerous Provocations’ warned that: The puppet military is massively amassing offensive forces in the waters off five islets of the West Sea including Paekryong and Yonphyong [Yeonpyeong] islets while vociferating about "defence of the northern limit line" and ceaselessly infiltrating its warships into the territorial waters of the DPRK for the purpose of sparking off a new armed conflict. It is needless to say that the large-scale "demonstration of military muscle" and war maneuvers taking place under this situation are as dangerous acts as playing with fire by the side of a powder magazine. These moves are, in fact, a prelude to an all-out war. The DPRK loves peace and does not want a war. But it is the DPRK's spirit and mettle to react to fire with fire and punish the provocateurs with a merciless retaliation of justice. If the puppet group finally opts for starting a war of aggression against the DPRK in league with foreign forces, defying its warnings, the group will not be able to escape a thousand-fold indiscriminate retaliatory blow, warns the article. [54] This is a generalised warning about retaliation ‘for starting a war of aggression’ rather than specifically threatening a response to military exercises at Yeonpyeong. ‘Indiscriminate’ in this context presumably means ‘all-out war’. This warning was followed by another on 3 August which specifically threatened retaliation for ‘naval firing maneuvers’ from Yeonpyeong and other islands in the area: The Command of Forces of the Korean People's Army in the western sector of the front issued on Tuesday the following notice in this connection: The naval firing maneuvers to be staged by the above-said warmongers in the waters near Paekryong, Taechong and Yonphyong islets in August with all ground, naval and submarine attack means involved are not simple drills but undisguised military intrusion into the inviolable territorial waters of the DPRK and reckless politically motivated provocation to preserve the illegal "northern limit line" to the last. …. In view of the prevailing situation, the Command of Forces of the Korean People's Army in the western sector of the front made a decisive resolution to counter the reckless naval firing projected by the group of traitors with strong physical retaliation. …. As regards the expected DPRK's counteraction for self-defence, the command warns in advance all the civilian ships including fishing boats not to enter the theatre of naval firing fixed by the group of traitors in the waters close to the five islets in the West Sea of Korea. It is the unshakable will and steadfast resolution of the army and people of the DPRK to return fire for fire. [55] Whether the ROK marines carried out any firing exercises after that warning is unknown. The Chosun Ilbo report quoted above says the drills were held ‘monthly’ but the [London] Telegraph talks about ‘monthly air raid drills’, so the exercises on 23 November may have been the first since the August threat. The island, lined with tank traps and trenches, and equipped with 19 fully-stocked bomb shelters in which residents conduct monthly air raid drills, is permanently ready for war.[56] The South Koreans admitted carrying live firing exercises on 23 November but justified these by saying they were fired into the sea, away from the direction of the North Korean mainland. There seems no doubt they were firing into the sea (on the technical level it was presumably an anti-ship exercise), though the actual direction of fire is unclear. One report says southward.[57] Another says to the west. [58] Yet another has it to the southwest.[59] In fact, as far as the North was concerned, the direction was irrelevant because in any case the shells landed in their territorial waters. And therein lies the rub. The DPRK argues that if it tolerated the exercise it would be relinquishing its claim to the waters. The enemy fired shells from the islet which is so close to the territory of the DPRK that it is within each other's eyeshot despite the fact that there are so many mountains and rivers, sea waters and islets in south Korea. This powder-reeking saber-rattling cannot be construed otherwise than a politically motivated provocation. The enemy is claiming that they fired shells southward from the islet in a bid not to get on the nerves of the DPRK but Yonphyong Islet is located deep inside the territorial waters of the DPRK away from the maritime military demarcation line. If live shells are fired from the islet, they are bound to drop inside the territorial waters of the DPRK side no matter in which direction they are fired because of such geographical features. The ulterior aim sought by the enemy is to create the impression that the DPRK side recognized the waters off the islet as their "territorial waters", in case that there was no physical counter-action on the part of the former. Herein lies the crafty and vicious nature of the enemy's provocation. The army of the DPRK took such a self-defensive measure as making a prompt powerful strike at the artillery positions from which the enemy fired the shells as it does not make an empty talk. [emphasis added].[60] As can be seen from the map (fig 1), the DPRK seems to accept ROK control of the island (but not necessarily sovereignty) but it does not recognise any claim over the surrounding sea. It would appear that the DPRK claim to these waters has much to justify it; the Northern Limit Line is manifestly iniquitous; it is unilateral and provocative and should have been abolished years ago. But does that justify the DPRK artillery barrage? An important point here is the number of warnings that were given. We have already quoted the public statements, and mentioned a telegram, but the North also claims it made a telephone call to the South: The south Korean puppet warmongers' firing of shells into the territorial waters of the DPRK side in the West Sea of Korea on Nov. 23 was a premeditated and deliberate military provocation from A to Z and a war action in fact. On Nov. 22, the south Korean puppet forces made no scruple of announcing that they would fire shells into the territorial waters of the DPRK side with artillery pieces they deployed on Yonphyong Island while staging Hoguk exercises for a war of aggression against the DPRK, straining the situation on the Korean Peninsula. In this connection the DPRK side sent a telephone notice to the south Korean puppet military at 8 a.m. on Nov. 23, strongly urging it to immediately cancel the plan for firing shells into the territorial waters of the DPRK side. In the notice the DPRK side seriously warned that if it paid no heed to this demand, it would face a resolute physical counter-strike and would be held fully responsible for all the ensuing consequences.[61] This telephone call, and the previous public warnings, have received very little coverage in the Western media, but there is no doubt that it took place, since it was reported by the Seoul newspaper Korea Herald: In the morning [of the clash], the North sent a telephone message to the South, saying “The North would not just sit back if the South fired shots into the North Korean territorial waters,” according to JCS [South Korean Joint Chiefs of Staff] officials.[62] We do not know how explicit that warning was, but since it was a telephone call, the Southern officer could presumably have sought clarification. Moreover, we have other reports that the ROK military was aware that that DPRK had moved artillery into position. This was then followed by practice shooting: A senior military said several hours before the shelling began the North Korean military deployed one battery of six 122-mm MLRS shells and later two batteries of 12 112-mm MLRS shells. It also carried out preparatory shooting practice just before the attack. "As far as I know the South Korean military was aware of this," he said.[63] It seems fair to assume that the local ROK military commander knew what would happen if the firing exercise went ahead. Whether he relayed this to higher levels and asked for confirmation to go ahead we do not know, but it seems likely. There was no great time pressure and taking action which would result in the first artillery exchange since the Korean War would surely have been referred up to higher levels. The warning/foreknowledge issue become even more convoluted with revelations on 1 December that South Korean intelligence had known since August that the North would respond. The Director of the National Intelligence Service [NIS] gave testimony to a closed-door session of a committee of the National Assembly. Members of the National Assembly Intelligence Committee quoted NIS Director Won Sei-hoon as saying the agency knew from wiretapping that the North Korean regime ordered the military to prepare to attack the five islands in the West Sea. He said the NIS submitted the intelligence report to President Lee Myung-bak.[emphasis added] [64] The phrase ‘prepare to attack’ implies, and is meant to imply, a Northern provocation, an unprovoked assault. In fact, we have from another story a much more plausible phrase: The[Asahi Shimbun]quoted the source, who is familiar with North Korea-China relations, as saying, "Early last month, the North Korean military issued instructions in Kim Jong-un's name to senior military commanders to get ready to counter the enemy's provocations any time." The source quoted an unnamed North Korean Army officer as commenting on the artillery attack on Yeonpyeong. "It had been planned. We had been preparing for that for a long time." [emphasis added][65] This countering of what the North regarded as a Southern provocation is consistent with the published and telephone warnings. It gives a quite different take on who was provoking whom. This did not prevent the Chosun Ilbo, which ran the story, from heading it ‘Kim Jong-un 'Ordered Attack in Early November'. Not the first time a newspaper has mendaciously given a headline which is contradicted by the actual story under it. In fact, the Chosun Ilbo, which has a very virulent ideological position, often does it. On 3 December it ran a story about an interview Russian Prime Minister Putin gave in the United States in which it was reported that ‘Putin said that he finds the situation in the Korean Peninsula "very acute and disturbing"’. The headline was ‘N.Korean Attack 'Acute and Disturbing,' Says Putin’. The assertion that the NIS submitted the intelligence report to President Lee Myung-bak has to be taken cautiously. From the public account we do not know whether he was given it personally, and the warning drawn to his attention. It may have just been passed to his office, and he never got to read it. That is a generous interpretation. Whether Lee was aware personally it is clear that the North Korean warning that they would retaliate if the exercises took place was known at the highest levels of the South Korean command. Events of the day The actual sequence of events is more complex than most press reports and commentaries suggest. According to the Korea Herald report the Northern shelling started at 2.34pm, but was perhaps not the ‘massive onslaught’ that it was often called: “As the North fired coastal artillery shells at around 2:34 p.m. into waters off the Yeonpyeong Island as well as on the island, we immediately fired back in full accordance with combat rules,” said Lee Hong-kee, chief director for joint operations at the JCS, in a press briefing. [emphasis added][66] Either the accuracy of the Northern artillery was poor, or firing into the water was deliberate. According to the report, here is the sequence of events After 8.00am and before 2.34 pm South fires into sea 2.34 pm North starts firing into sea (and land?) 2.47 pm South starts firing at Northern coastal batteries – ‘strong, concentrated’ counterattack causing ‘considerable damage’ 2.55 pm North ceases firing 3.11 pm North recommences firing 3.42 pm North ceases firing 3.48 pm South telephones North urging it to stop its ‘provocative acts’ By 9.30 pm 2 marines killed; while six others were seriously injured. Ten other soldiers and three civilians suffered minor injuries This raises some intriguing questions. • Did the North fire simultaneously at the island and into the sea, or did the land fire come later? • Did the North fire onto the island only after the Southern counterattack on its positions? • Why did the South make a telephone call asking the North to stop if it had already done so? • Did the North recommence firing sometime after 3.42 pm? • As of 9.30 pm we have three civilians reported with minor injuries but subsequent reports give two dead. Were the dead amongst these three, or were they discovered later? The ‘fog of war’ no doubt produces confusion but these discrepancies suggest that we have not had the full story by any means. The quite erroneous claim that this was an ‘unprovoked attack’ by the North has been repeated so many times by ROK officials, and by the media, that even liberals such as the American investigative journalist Tim Shorrock have been taken in.[67] The other main canard in the official narrative concerns civilians. The theme is set at the top with statements from Lee Myung-bak. On 29 November he gave a short address to the nation: During a seven-minute speech Lee expressed outrage over the North's ruthless attack on civilians, calling it an "inhumane" crime [emphasis added].[68] Others were more circumspect. A JCS spokesman called the firing ‘indiscriminate’: “This provocation is a premeditated, intentional illegal attack in violation of the U.N. Convention, the Armistice Agreement and the inter-Korean non-aggression accord. It is also an inhumane atrocity, in which it indiscriminately fired shells into unarmed civilian residential areas.”[69] Song Min-soon, former Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade and currently a Democratic Party (i.e. opposition) member of the National Assembly attacked what he called an: outrageous indiscriminate artillery attack against civilians and military alike.[70] The American liberal John Feffer wrote of a ‘disproportionate response’ which killed ‘two civilians and two soldiers’. [71] Early reports (such as the Korea Herald one above) mention only minor civilian injuries, though they talk of a ’civilian area’: ..killing two South Korean marines, wounding 16 soldiers and three civilians, and damaging homes and facilities. This was the first time since the Korean War that the North has fired artillery shells on a civilian area in South Korea.[72] ‘Civilian area’ is a rather elastic term. Most military bases have civilians living in the vicinity, some more than others. The giant US headquarters in South Korea, Yongsan Garrison occupies 2.5 sq km in the centre of this city of 10 million people; the site was originally developed by the Japanese Imperial Army. By 24 November the casualties changed to four – two military and two civilians. In addition to the two marines killed, the bodies of two men, believed in their 60s, were pulled from a destroyed construction site, the coast guard said. At least 18 people - most of them troops - were injured.[73] It was not stated where this construction site was in relation to the marine camp. If it were on the other side of the island, then that would indicate fire that was either indiscriminate or very inaccurate. If it were close by, or even on the camp, then this would put a different complexion on things. It is clear that the main target was the marine camp, as this quotation from the JCS indicates Many landed on a military camp but others on a civilian village on the island. Flames and thick columns of smoke were seen rising above the village and a nearby mountain. "The North must have carefully premeditated the provocation against the camp," a JCS officer speculated. [74] Fig 4: Damage at the marine base A K-9 Marine artillery base on Yeonpyeong Island under attack by North Korea on Tuesday /Courtesy of the Ministry of Defense ["N.Korean Shelling 'Aimed for Maximum Damage to Lives, Property'." Chosun Ilbo, 26 November 2010. The Washington Post went one step further and reported that: Most of the shells landed on a military base on Yeonpyeong island [emphasis added][75] However, most reports either did not mention the marine base, or gave no details. For instance, another Washington Post article talked of ‘civilian-inhabited Yeonpyeong Island’ without any reference to the marine base.[76] In fact the military installations were very significant as a New York Times article makes evident. … [Yeonpyeong Island] houses a garrison of about 1,000 South Korean marines, and the navy has deployed its newest class of “patrol killer” guided-missile ships in the Western Sea, as the Yellow Sea is also known. [77] This NY Times article gave the civilian population as 1,600 but this was later revised down to 1,350. [78] Most appear to be connected, as one might expect, to fishing (this area is especially famous for crabs); how many work on the base is unclear. The most detailed, technical, assessment of the artillery duel is given by the US ‘geopolitical intelligence’ company STRATFOR. It released a report, accompanied by a pdf file showing satellite images taken after what it called the ‘North Korean attack on Yeonpyeong Island’. The STRATFOR reports are interesting partly for what they reveal but also what they hide or obscure and for what might be considered a surprising lack of geopolitical intelligence in an organisation in the business of selling the stuff. It admits that: A [South Korean] battery of six K9 155 mm self-propelled howitzers, which was conducting live-fire drills on a Yeonpyeong Island military base, fired some 80 rounds. And then, a bit further down: Significantly, the South claims its Yeonpyeong Island drill was not part of the larger Hoguk exercises under way simultaneously throughout South Korea. North Korea has occasionally protested these drills — including recently — and claims dozens of shells fell in North Korean waters near the island, provoking it to fire. However, as the North does not recognize the Northern Limit Line and considers the entire island and its surrounding water to be North Korean territory, it does not seem to be clear that this particular incident was any more provocative than any other drill.[79] This is a curious argument. Hoguk and the other military exercises over the decades have taken place in South Korean territory or international waters. This one was being held in what the North considered to be DPRK territory. It was not merely provocative from a military point of view, but as they made clear in their statement of 24 November, from a legal one as well. That is a very important distinction which differentiated the Yeonpyeong exercise from others. Although the STRAFOR report mentions the military base in passing, it is absent from the satellite images document. We have satellite photos of destroyed houses, but nothing about the base, which is not even identified. Since the base was the main target of attack, and early reports focused on military dead and wounded, this is a rather suspicious omission. The STRATFOR report, and images, do however throw considerable light, albeit inadvertently, on the issue of the civilian casualties. It would appear from this, and other sources, that the North Korean fire was not very accurate. The North Koreans either exclusively, or mainly (it is not clear which) used Multiple Launch Rocket System [MLRS] artillery These are, as the name suggests, basically a bundle of tubes which can fire rockets. Interestingly it is said that they can be traced back to the 15th century Korean hwacha (‘fire vehicle’) which could fire a hundred or more projectiles in one salvo.[80] The most famous example in modern times was the Soviet Katyusha, used in the Second World War and nicknamed the ‘Stalin organ’.[81] The Americans used them in 1991 in the Gulf War, and the ROK military is equipped with them.[82] MLRS can deliver formidable devastation but are not very accurate, especially the older versions with which the KPA is equipped: The initial barrage consisted of 150 rounds, followed by 20 more intermittently — meaning that while a full battalion appeared to be in position, a fully armed single battery could have conducted the entire attack. Of these 170 rounds, 80 struck Yeonpyeong Island, though 20 failed to detonate….. With a few modern exceptions, artillery rockets are unguided and achieve results through massed fires rather than exceptional accuracy. Here, North Korea had no opportunity to register targets or adjust fire based on input from forward observers; South Korea has subsequently conjectured based on the targets that the North’s maps of military positions on the island may have been dated. The failure of so many rounds to reach the island and a dud rate of roughly a quarter of those that did suggest issues of quality control in manufacture and/or poorly controlled storage, as well as the potential for there to have been issues in the fire direction or on the gunline.[83] So it would appear that the reason that shells fell on the town was not so much that that the firing was indiscriminate, but that it was inaccurate. The North Koreans do not have a monopoly on this, and there was anger in the National Assembly Intelligence Committee when they were presented with the satellite photo (Fig 5) which showed that Southern shells fired from their much more accurate howitzers had missed their target, the North Korean artillery positions Committee members reportedly reacted angrily since they show impact points scattered mainly in paddy and dry fields.[84] Fig 5: Evidence of inaccurate fire In this satellite photo released by the U.S. private intelligence agency Stratfor, rice paddies and fields in North Korea bear traces of South Korean artillery shells ["Spies Intercepted Plans for Yeonpyeong Attack in August ". Chosun Ilbo, 2 December 2010. There was also much dispute about the damage suffered by the North. The DPRK has not released any statement about casualties. In the South, some pointed out that their military equipment was far superior and more deadly and hence there must have been many casualties, and others pointed to the various satellite photos showing hits off target.[85] Sometimes military action is intended primarily to terrorise and demoralise the civilian population – the London blitz, the firebombing of Tokyo, the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the ‘shock and awe’ bombing of Bagdad prior to invasion – are just a few examples. If the DPRK fired on Seoul to unleash ‘a sea of fire’ it would be the civilian population that would be hit, and the military impact would be secondary. However, much military action is aimed primarily at the enemy military, and if this happens in a populated area, civilians become, in the US euphemism, ‘collateral damage’. Clearly the distinction between the two is often blurred in practice, and it is difficult, perhaps impossible, to be sure, but it appears from the available evidence that the target for the North Korean fire was the marine base and that civilian casualties and damage were accidental. There are several reasons for assuming this. Firstly, the inaccuracy of the MLRS. Secondly, if the intention had been to cause civilian causalities as a warning about the consequences of Lee Myung-bak’s confrontational policy – ‘today Yeonpyeong, tomorrow Seoul’ – we would expect that point to be made. There is little point in giving a warning unless it is reasonably explicit. I can find no indication that the DPRK has made any suggestion that the Yeonpyeong incident carried such a lesson for the people of the ROK. On the contrary, the public statement expressed regret for civilian casualties and laid the blame on the Southern side: The DPRK side warned several times against the enemy's plan for shelling in the sensitive areas around Yonphyong Island and sent a telephone notice on the morning of the very day the incident occurred as part of its superhuman efforts to prevent the clash to the last moment, but the south side preempted the firing of shells into the territorial waters of the DPRK side. The enemy side, however, has kept silent about all these facts. Moreover, it is now working hard to dramatize "civilian casualties" as part of its propaganda campaign, creating the impression that the defenceless civilians were exposed to "indiscriminate shelling" all of a sudden from the DPRK side. If that is true, it is very regrettable but the enemy should be held responsible for the incident as it took such inhuman action as creating "a human shield" by deploying civilians around artillery positions and inside military facilities before the launch of the provocation. The fact that there were human casualties inside the military base clearly proves itself the ulterior intention of the enemy. The U.S. regarded the death of innocent civilians as a common practice in the past in a bid to serve its military purposes in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan and other parts of the world. This inhuman atrocity of the US. repeated itself on the Korean Peninsula this time. While the incident occurred, the shells indiscriminately fired by the enemy dropped in the area close to civilian houses far from the artillery positions of the Korean People's Army.[emphasis added][86] This statement brings up a third factor. The claim about a ‘human shield’ doesn’t carry much weight. Civilians live on the island for historical and economic reasons and there is no reason to suppose that they were used to shield the military. However, the claim that civilian casualties occurred within the camp is not implausible. Civilians must have worked at the camp. Indeed, one report from the United States said of the shelling that ‘this resulted in the killing of two South Korean soldiers and two civilian contractors working on a military base’ [emphasis added].[87] As with the Cheonan incident we need a proper, impartial, investigation if we are to draw any firm conclusions, but as with the Cheonan no such investigation is likely. It is interesting to note that the DPRK statement does not claim that it suffered any civilian causalities, merely that enemy shells ‘dropped in the area close to civilian houses’. North Korean propaganda is frequently portrayed as dishonest and deceitful. Here is surely a case where it would have been to their advantage to fabricate civilian casualties, but they did not do so. Finally, it should be remembered that the ROK military on Yeonpyeong Island are not just ordinary soldiers, they are marines, an elite force trained for amphibious assault. Indeed, back in 2009 Rodong Sinmun commented on the buildup up in the area The puppet military reinforced warships and armed forces along and near the "northern limit line in the West Sea" and formed a "task force to be ready to go into action in half an hour" and deployed it on Yonphyong Islet[emphasis added][88] The road behind, the road ahead The fire fight at Yeonpyeong Island seems to have been a manufactured crisis. It appears to be the first time that South Korea, alone or in tandem with the United States, has carried out a military exercise in territory claimed by the North.[89] There have been frequent naval clashes around the Northern Limit Line and it is fairly certain that it has been preserved for that purpose. If’ Seoul’ had really been anxious to avoid incidents and preserve peace then the NLL would have gone long ago. President Roh moo-hyun and Chairman Kim Jong Il, at their summit on 4 October 2007 agreed to ‘special peace and cooperation zone in the West Sea’, but this peace initiative was overturned, as so many others, by incoming president Lee Myung-bak.[90] Preserving the NLL as an area where incidents were likely is one thing, but utilising the NLL deliberately to create an incident is another Warnings and intelligence reports aside, it must have been known that a military exercise within the NLL area would be provocative. On top of which, the legal implications made it intolerably provocative. This suggests that the crisis was planned, not necessarily in great detail, but with sufficient surety of outcome. This reading is quite consistent with Lee Myung-bak’s policy, which is one of building up tension through tension in order to precipitate a crisis on the peninsula, a collapse of the DRPK, and its absorption by the ROK. The DPRK is well aware of this, hence the reaffirmation of the zero tolerance policy at Yeonpyeong. On 23 November, in the aftermath of the clash, the KPA issued a communiqué which reiterated the policy: It is a traditional mode of counter-action of the army of the DPRK to counter the firing of the provocateurs with merciless strikes. Should the south Korean puppet group dare intrude into the territorial waters of the DPRK even 0.001 mm, the revolutionary armed forces of the DPRK will unhesitatingly continue taking merciless military counter-actions against it.[91] This is a calculated policy of brinkmanship, designed to avert war, by threatening war. The danger is, of course, that the momentum of events will bring war about. That, unfortunately, is becoming ever more likely. Lee Myung-bak is a consummate politician. He has set things in motion to produce, and replicate crisis, while giving the appearance of being reluctant. His address to the nation on 29 November used the same rhetorical device as Antony’s speech about Julius Caesar, where he claims to be burying Caesar, not praising him, but of course is doing just that. Lee combined ‘humility’ with an aggressive stance in such a way as to suggest he was reluctant to exacerbate the situation but was being forced into it. President Lee Myung-bak’s address Monday is being summarized as consisting mainly of “humility toward the people of South Korea” and an “ultra-hardline response to North Korea.” Analysts say it shows the president’s perception of the current crisis facing him and its solution following the North Korean artillery attack on Yeonpyeong Island. Although even North Korea acknowledged the attack to be a “provocation,” President Lee has faced harsh criticism domestically. Surveys show that more than 70 percent of South Koreans, conservative and progressive alike, feel that the military and Lee Myung-bak administration did not respond appropriately at the time of the attack. The fact that the president began his address Monday with what amounted to an apology to the people of South Korea reflected a consideration of this situation. [emphasis added] The performance so impressed the reporter from the liberal Hankyoreh that we get manifestly false statement that ‘North Korea acknowledged the attack to be a ‘provocation’. Throughout the crises of 2001, especially over Cheonan and then Yeonpyeong, Lee Myung-bak has been very adroit in fanning the flames while give the impression that he was attempting to put them out. In respect of the Cheonan incident President Obama was reported as saying "I think President Lee has shown extraordinary restraint given these circumstances.’[92] It may be objected that this was a public statement and should not be taken too literally; politicians often say in public the opposite of what they think in private. However, there does seem to be a consensus among Western observers at least that Lee is a reluctant warrior being driven into taking steps by the provocative obduracy of the North.[93] Take, for instance, this STRATFOR interview where the interviewer comments: I talked to three former [US?] envoys to Seoul this week and all of them agreed that South Korea had handled this in a pretty cool and sensible fashion[94] The South Korea public is rather more sceptical. One of the WikiLeaks cables [09SEOUL59] illustrates the confusion in the minds of US officials: President Lee is determined not to give in to North Korean pressure. Our Blue House contacts have told us on several occasions that President Lee remained quite comfortable with his North Korea policy and that he is prepared leave the inter-Korean relations frozen until the end of his term in office, if necessary. It is also our assessment that Lee's more conservative advisors and supporters see the current standoff as a genuine opportunity to push and further weaken the North, even if this might involve considerable brinkmanship.[95] On the one hand we have Lee facing up to North Korean pressure, but we also get the admission that the ‘current standoff’ ( this was in 2009) is seen as ‘ a genuine opportunity to push and further weaken the North, even if this might involve considerable brinkmanship’. Lee’s brinkmanship is, in fact, far more profound and aggressive than the US diplomat realised. Both North and South are engaging in brinkmanship, but the nature of the two is very different. Pyongyang is far poorer and weaker than its adversaries, which include not merely South Korea but the United States, and Japan.[96] North Korea’s brinkmanship is therefore inherently defensive. It is designed to protect the country (or regime if you prefer that) from attack and conquest. That does not mean that it is wise, or will be successful, that is a matter of debate. But it is important to recognise its essential characteristic of defensiveness. South Korea’s brinkmanship, on the other hand, is offensive. It is designed to bring about the collapse of the DPRK and its takeover by the ROK. Lee Myung-bak does not have to do this. His immediate predecessors (Kim Dae-jung and Roh Moo-hyun) had very different policies. Indeed, his aggressive brinkmanship is arguably a new development because even in the days of the military dictatorships while there was hostility towards the North because the balance of forces if anything favoured the North, there was not such an ambitious policy. However, Lee Myung-bak is reputedly pragmatic and opportunistic. Soon after he won the presidency he was described in the New York Times thus: Mr. Lee has a reputation as a pragmatist who, in contrast to President Roh Moo-hyun, holds few strong ideological positions. As mayor, he created parks and reformed the public transportation system. As president, he said, his main agenda would be to revive the country’s economy.[97] If that is correct, his brinkmanship has been a response to events and opportunities, rather than a considered strategy. In addition, we may discern three factors which may be propelling him to accelerate the buildup of tension on the peninsula. • A desire to renew the anti-North momentum after the relative failure of the Cheonan incident. His setback in the May elections, the widespread public scepticism about the investigation, and the failure to get the UN Security Council to condemn North Korea must rankle. The Yeonpyeong incident is seen as away to rekindle anti-North Korea sentiment In his address on 29 November he specifically made the point: There was a split in public opinion over the torpedoing of the Cheonan. Unlike that time, our people have united as one this time.[98] Despite the frequent assertions of implosion and crisis, the DPRK is not facing collapse. Whilst sanctions must have caused huge damage it appears that the economy is recovering. Certainly Pyongyang, from personal observation on a visit in November 2010, is manifestly economically improved over my last visit three years ago, with more motor vehicles, bicycles, and shops. The electricity supply is much better and there is a very noticeable increase in street lighting. These observations are broadly corroborated by series of recent American visitors.[99] If the South is to take over the North then something must be done to reverse this recovery. Time is not on Lee Myung-bak’s side. His term of office comes to an end on 25 February 2013 and under the present constitution he is ineligible to run again. Moreover, there are suggestions that because of demographic changes the conservative ascendancy represented by the Lee administration may not be sustainable and that South Korea will move to more progressive administrations.[100] Since the North’s brinkmanship is defensive, it is reactive and this leaves the initiative in the hands of the South. Seoul has reinforced its forces on the NLL island and has announced that there will be artillery exercises from Daecheong Island, and again on Yeonpyeong. [101] It seems inevitable that Pyongyang will feel compelled to respond. The new ROK Defence Minister, Kim Kwan-jin, has threatened what he calls ‘self-defense air raids’ in the event of another clash; ‘self defense’ being used in the Japanese sense.[102] It will be recalled that clause 9 of the Japanese constitution prohibits the establishment of armed forces, so the Japanese army, navy and air forces all have ‘self-defense’ in their titles thus solving the constitutional problem. Kim Kwan-jin’s air strike policy is all part of what the New York Times rather approvingly, and with a professional use of euphemism, called a new ‘muscular military posture’.[103] The implications of this new policy are obvious. Not merely has the South great superiority in aircraft, but the new rules allow great flexibility for escalation. However, there are limits to the ROK military’s freedom of action. There is the legal issue of operational control – when would war be deemed a war and thus trigger US control of the ROK military ? But before that stage is reached, the ROK air force is dependent on US intelligence to operate. Thus any serious escalation of the situation on the Korean peninsula would require US endorsement. Would this be forthcoming? Unfortunately it looks as if it would. The Obama administration has termed its policy towards Korea as one of ‘strategic patience’. [104] It might be better described as ‘strategic paralysis’. Not merely has it ignored that calls of a many Korea experts to engage with the DPRK, but it has effectively relinquished control of events to Lee Myung-bak.[105] It might be said that ‘strategic paralysis’ is not confined to US Korea policy but is the defining characteristic of Obama foreign policy, and that would be true, but nowhere is it more perilous than in Korea. Because ultimately Korea is China. A second Korean war would, like the first, soon become a Sino-American war.
Deterrence will inevitably fail – U.S. involvement risks escalation and South Korean public opinion guarantees war 
Stares 1/13—General John W. Vessey Senior Fellow for Conflict Prevention and Director of the Center for Preventive Action @ CFR, Adjunct Professor, Georgetown University, PhD (Paul B., 13 January 2011, [[http://38north.org/2011/01/on-escalation-in-korea/]], RBatra)
Despite intermittent crises and many deadly clashes, nearly six decades have passed since the armistice agreement “ending” the Korean War was signed without there being a serious resumption of military hostilities. Though the armed standoff in Korea is hardly a desirable state of affairs, this record can be taken as a reassuring sign of its underlying stability. But how sanguine should we be that the current crisis will recede in much the same way that earlier ones have and that the deterrent relationship will hold? In fact, recent events raise some troubling questions about the volatility of the situation in Korea today.
First, the November 23, 2010 shelling of Yeongpyeong Island by North Korean artillery clearly caught many experts by surprise. North-South relations had been thawing after a summer of heightened tensions following the sinking of the ROK naval ship Cheonan in March. Even the revelation of new nuclear enrichment facilities immediately prior to the attack had seemed to accomplish its putative goal of convincing the outside world that North Korea could not be left to stew in its own juices and that engagement was now imperative. So why would North Korea set back its coercive diplomatic campaign by launching yet another deadly provocation that antagonized everyone—including its principal patron China—just when the wind was clearly beginning to blow in its favor? Did North Korea fail to see this or did it miscalculate the impact of its actions? Did other factors, notably the succession process underway in Pyongyang, affect the calculus or tip the scales in some decisive way?
Second, the attack on Yeongpyeong Island was also surprising in that it targeted areas inhabited by civilians for the first time since the Korean War. This was no accident, but a carefully choreographed and well executed attack as Joe Bermudez’s excellent account of what happened indicates. Yes, the numbers killed were still less than previous incidents. And yes, one can infer that the choice of Yeongpyeong still signaled restraint by North Korea as the military base on the island had been the source of offending live fire drills and, moreover, represented an “off peninsula” target and thus less likely to trigger wider escalation. But why would North Korea decide to brazenly disregard such an established “red line,” to say nothing of a cardinal international norm, at this time? Can we infer from this a growing willingness to breach other red lines and engage in still more risky behavior?
Third, the rapid change in South Korean public opinion from being largely pacifist and unwilling to countenance a forceful response against North Korea to the situation today where a majority now favor military retaliation if provoked has introduced a new element into the crisis. Tough statements by senior ROK officials—including President Lee Myung Bak—that South Korea will use force in the event of another aggressive act suggest that the days of Southern forbearance are over. This is completely understandable and, to many, a necessary prerequisite to deter future provocations. Yet, how confident can we be—especially in light of recent events—that North Korea will take the threat of South Korean retaliation seriously? Might it only goad them further? And should we worry that South Korea might take preemptive action if it had credible indications of another provocation?
Remarkably, despite all the commentary on the current crisis, to say nothing of the obvious stakes involved, scant attention has been given to how tensions might actually escalate rather than dissipate contrary to past experience. Certainly plenty of commentators have warned about how “miscalculation,” “loss of control” and “unintended escalation” could trigger a new Korean war, but rarely beyond such broad generalizations and assertions. Conversely, those who discount the likelihood of significant escalation should the South retaliate militarily in the future have been no more forthcoming in explaining why the risk remains low other than repeating the broad conviction that it is in neither side’s interests to go to war. As we have seen in many cases, however, an expectation of rational behavior—especially for decision makers under conditions of stress and incomplete information­­—is not something that can be reliably assumed.
The propensity of another major clash on or around the peninsula to escalate militarily depends on numerous complex factors. Understanding them may seem like an arcane or academic exercise, but it is in fact critically important to considering how best to manage the current crisis and prevent the very outcome that everyone—including presumably the North Koreans—wishes to avoid. Four interrelated variables are likely to be the critical ingredients to how another deadly clash might escalate. These can be simplified as the “who, where, what and why” factors:
Who’s Involved: In the most recent provocations, North Korea has evidently been careful to confine their operations to South Korean targets. A future incident that either intentionally or accidentally involves U.S. forces or citizens in Korea would clearly raise the stakes. It is has been some time since this has happened and one could infer that North Korea understands that the risks have grown too high and thus they will continue to refrain from any direct or harmful interactions with the United States. The decision to carry out joint U.S.-ROK naval exercises in the vicinity of the recent provocations presumably had this in mind to help deter further attacks. Yet, how sure can we really be that North Korea would not target U.S. forces in the future? Might they make the same calculation that the U.S. will be just as risk averse to taking retaliatory action as the ROK has been to date? And even if they do continue to avoid provocations that may involve the U.S., how confident are we that they would know when U.S. forces or citizens are not in harm’s way? Finally, while the involvement of the U.S. would clearly increase the risk of military escalation, we should also not overlook the potential role of Japan. It too has been the target of past provocations and its tolerance for aggressive North Korean behavior has lessened considerably in recent years while its capacity for military retaliation has manifestly increased.
Where the Interactions Take Place: As several analysts have pointed out, the Cheonan and Yeongpyeong incidents are the latest in a decade-long sequence of military clashes along the disputed Northern Limit Line (NLL)—all of which have stayed localized. Were additional incidents to occur in this same general area, the supposition is that South Korea would retaliate in the proximate vicinity and in a proportional way to reduce the risk of further escalation. This raises the question of whether North Korea would view South Korean retaliation against mainland, i.e. “on peninsular” targets—which are reportedly now being considered—as a qualitatively different and therefore disproportionate response regardless of how discrete or contained they were? There is no assurance, in any case, that North Korea would confine any future provocations to the NLL/Yellow Sea area. Meddling with the Kaesong Industrial Complex, including the detention of South Koreans who work there, has been mentioned as a possibility. Insertion of special forces into the South if only for reconnaissance purposes is also not out of the question. There have been plenty of precedents after all. Neither should Seoul be viewed as off limits as demonstrated by the failed assassination attempt in late 2009 by a North Korean “hit team” against their most senior defector Hwang Jang Yop. How South Korea would respond proportionately to these or similar types of activities are not immediately clear, though one can anticipate considerable public agitation to retaliate promptly.
What Type of Interactions Take Place: The scale, intensity, and nature of any further military interactions clearly have a major bearing on how a crisis would subsequently escalate. Intermittent artillery duels across the NLL and even the DMZ would probably not precipitate a major outbreak of hostilities. The use of airpower, however, which has been raised as a possible retaliatory option by the new ROK Defense Minister, introduces a new, more uncertain element since it entails the direct incursion of sovereign territory and thus represents a clearer political affront to the North. (It also introduces the possibility of downed and captured pilots that could also complicate matters). Targeting major symbols of national power such as nuclear facilities and missile bases—however surgically undertaken—would undoubtedly represent a still greater challenge to the North which we can reliably assume would not go unanswered. The most important variable, however, will be the perceived operational status of each side’s main offensive capabilities. If either North or South Korea perceives that opposing forces are being readied to engage in large scale offensive operations, the incentives to strike first will inevitably increase. For the North the reason would be to avert the almost certain demise of the regime and for the South it would be to minimize the risk to Seoul. But, as has often been observed, precautionary defensive measures designed to bolster deterrence are not easily distinguishable from offensive preparations and thus the potential for miscalculation exists. Here changes to the size, disposition, and alert status of U.S. forces in and around Korea, including the potential activation of reinforcements and the evacuation of non-combatants from forward areas, will be absolutely critical to perceptions of intent.
The status quo creates an ever-present risk of nuclear escalation
Lee 3/3—Seoul-born columnist and journalist; he has degrees from the US and China (Sunny, 3 March 2011, Korean tensions reach new heights, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/MC03Dg01.html]], RBatra)
Tension has spiked again on the Korean Peninsula over annual joint United States-South Korean war games, with North Korean threatening to turn Seoul into a "sea of fire". Washington and Seoul have stressed that the "Key Resolve/Foal Eagle" exercises are defensive in nature. But South Korea's daily DongA Ilbo reported on Tuesday that they simulate scenarios such as "fighter jets striking Pyongyang and South Korean special commandos securing the Yongbyon nuclear site" in the event of a "military coup or the death of Kim Jong-il". Some 200,000 South Korean soldiers and about 12,800 US troops are participating in the 11-day exercises that began on Monday involving computer war simulations, live-fire drills and field training. Claiming the exercises are a preparation for invasion, North Korea's military is reportedly on high alert, with Mercedes limousines sighted near the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) on Tuesday, a sign that high-ranking generals are inspecting the area. "The situation is most sensitive," said the Korea Herald on Tuesday. Further ramping up tensions is the launch of aid balloons to North Korea by the South Korean military, with the packages containing clothes, daily necessities, medicine and student stationery - and millions of propaganda leaflets detailing the popular revolts in the Middle East and North Africa. North Korea has called it "psychological libel tactics", threatening to shoot anyone along the Korean border seen launching the balloons. While there have been sporadic distributions of propaganda by balloons in recent years by civic organizations, this is the first time the military has done it in seven years. South Korean Defense Minister Kim Kwan-jin told lawmakers on Friday that he expected the North to launch fresh attacks this spring, after its attach last November on a South Korean island, killing four, and alleged sinking of a South Korean corvette in March. Inter-Korean military talks hoped to ease the tensions raised by those incidents in mid-February broke down after a matter of hours. North Korea's DMZ representative warned that its military would respond to any provocations with "merciless counteraction" and "full-scale war", and that it would "counter a nuclear threat with a nuclear deterrent and missile strikes with counterstrikes". Piao Jianyi, an expert on Korean affairs at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing, warns that the situation could get out of control, and that if it does, it is the South's fault. "At a time when North Korea is focused on building up its economy, it is South Korea that is mounting the real provocations," he said. "When North Korea's patience runs out, all possibilities are on the table, including artillery and even nuclear attacks. South Korea is goading [the North] to ratchet up tensions." Claiming that the South is reluctant to resume the stalled six-party talks on the North's nuclear program, which Beijing promotes as the best option among all the other alternatives, Piao said, "I've been watching the Lee Myung-bak administration's approach on North Korea for the last three years. And now I find it quite difficult to comprehend." South Korean analysts, however, remain nonplussed. "North Korea's threats are not news. They've been there all the time," said Lee Sang-hyun, a senior researcher at the Sejong Institute think-tank near Seoul. "The North appears particularly worried about possible information inflow on the unrest in the Arab countries." Lee said North Korea's unusually strong warnings were a sign that it was "cornered", proposing that Seoul take this opportunity to send a "clear signal" of deterrence. "Of course, there are risks involved. But South Korea shouldn't scale down or halt the military drills, succumbing to the North's threats." A senior South Korean military official told the New York Times that the propaganda messages carried by the balloons were intended to act like a "virus". "The most dangerous virus for the regime is the truth about the outside world and the truth about themselves ... They try to contain and prevent information from infiltrating. But they don’t have a vaccine against this kind of virus." However, South Korean President Lee Myung-bak on Tuesday extended an olive branch to Pyongyang. In a speech commemorating the 92nd anniversary of the March 1 popular uprising against Japan's colonial rule of Korea, he said, "We are ready to engage in dialogue with the North any time, with an open mind." The Ilmin International Relations Institute of Korea University, a Seoul-based security think-tank focused on relations with the North, released a newsletter on Tuesday titled "Drills are necessary for North Korean contingency". The university is where hardline Unification Minister Hyun in-taek taught before he assumed the post. "I think it's not Lee Myung-bak, but rather his hardline advisors who are the main source of this tension," said Piao in Beijing. Critics say Lee and his administration are playing a good-cop, bad-cop routine, but they are more likely just seeking the right contingency plans. Observers have long warned about miscalculations on the fraught peninsula. "There is always the danger of escalation. North Korea can retaliate at a time and place of their choosing," said Daniel Pinkston, an analyst who focuses on inter-Korean relations at the Brussels-based International Crisis Group.
China waters down sanctions to sustain North Korea as a buffer against U.S. forces in South Korea – this risks Korean War and prevents effective sanctions
Karotkin 10—Senior China Analyst with the Department of the Navy (Jesse, 27 May 2010, All Eyes on China in Wake of Cheonan Sinking, China Brief Volume: 10 Issue: 11, http://www.jamestown.org/single/?no_cache=1&tx_ttnews[tt_news]=36431&tx_ttnews[backPid]=13&cHash=7b6d6a4171, RBatra)
While Mao Zedong famously called China and North Korea “as close as lips and teeth,” the ideological language of kinship has long since vanished from China’s official script. In the wake of the Cold War, the two countries have taken starkly different political and economic paths. Beijing values North Korea primarily as a buffer against U.S. forces in the South, sustaining North Korea for strategic rather than ideological reasons [3]. Chinese media characterized Hu’s visit with Kim Jong-Il as part of a longstanding effort to promote and maintain “stability” on the peninsula (Beijing Review, May 17; China Daily, May 12) Should the North Korean regime implode, Beijing could face several undesirable consequences, including a flood of refugees into China, protracted war or chaos on the peninsula, or a successor regime that is antagonistic toward China. Beijing also worries that “precipitous reunification” with the South could leave U.S. forces stationed north of the 38th parallel [4]. This is particularly important as many Chinese scholars and commentators express the fear that the United States is pursuing a strategy to “encircle” China [5]. As the international community deals with the Cheonan incident, Beijing will be forced to balance its strategic interest in North Korean stability against its desire to project a benign and cooperative international image. If world opinion unifies behind levying serious penalties against Pyongyang, China will find itself in a corner, with pressure not to obstruct the process. At the same time, Beijing sees a regime in Pyongyang that is very vulnerable, particularly given Kim Jong-Il’s failing health and the likelihood of a power transition in the coming years. Despite the growing political and economic cost of supporting North Korea and the widening ideological divide between the regimes in Beijing and Pyongyang, China shows little sign that it has the appetite for tough sanctions such as those suggested by Ralph Cossa, president of the Pacific Forum Center for Strategic and International Studies. In an editorial carried by the Korea Times, Cossa asserted that simply levying additional sanctions is an inadequate response. Conceding that the appropriate penalty is not the likely path, Cossa argued that the U.N. Security Council should restrict North Korean submarines and torpedo boats to port, adding that units underway “should be deemed as legitimate targets for prosecution and destruction by the Seoul-based United Nations Command and ROK-US Combined Forces Command (CFC)” (Korea Times, May 4). Endorsing security sanctions that would almost certainly spark additional conflicts with the North or even precipitate regime instability would represent a strategic shift that China has been unwilling to undertake in the past. Conclusion The Cheonan incident may prompt some Chinese policymakers to reexamine the growing cost of China’s historical commitment to Pyongyang. Treatment of the North as an indispensable buffer zone has emboldened the Kim regime. Left unchecked, North Korea could damage China’s international image, or worse, precipitate a conflict that undermines China’s larger security interests. China’s foreign policy community, which consistently favors strong U.N. authority, must also weigh the risk that impeding international efforts to punish North Korea may further undermine confidence in the United Nations as an appropriate and effective venue to handle security challenges. Beijing may not want to see the US, Japan, and South Korea resolve to address this problem independently of the United Nations. In the near term, however, stability in North Korea will remain Beijing’s paramount priority. Given North Korea’s recent currency debacle and the likelihood of a North Korean power transition in the coming years, China will remain wary of any shocks that could undermine the Pyongyang regime. As it has done in the past, China will use its weight and position to water down sanctions, create loopholes for bilateral “humanitarian” aid and refocus international efforts toward resuming dialogue with the North. Beijing’s greatest challenge will be convincing skeptics that dialogue with Pyongyang remains a profitable exercise.
Withdrawal would force China to cooperate on North Korea
Garfinkle 3 – former professor of American foreign policy and Middle East politics at the University of Pennsylvania and current editor of The National Interest (1/27/03, Adam, National Review, “Checking Kim,” [[http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle]], JMP)
NO NORMAL DIPLOMACY
The U.S. finds itself in an unenviable situation: one in which it has no military options, yet normal diplomacy is futile. Diplomacy of the sort being pressed upon the U.S. by South Korea amounts to paying North Koreans for acting temporarily less scary until the next occasion for extortion. I have argued that the only way to solve the problem is to transcend it: to think not like a diplomat, who is paid to manage, but like a statesman, who is paid to transform basic circumstances. I proposed last October that the major powers — the U.S., Japan, Russia, and China — unite to condition aid to North Korea in such a way as ultimately to undermine North Korean sovereignty. This proposal stood at least a chance of getting at the real source of the problem, which is the nature of the North Korean regime; and it could provide benefits to all the major powers that they could not otherwise achieve for themselves. I also acknowledged its drawbacks: that North Korea would not easily allow itself to be managed into oblivion and might lash out (which might happen anyway); and that the degree of cooperation we required, especially from China, might not be forthcoming.
China has in fact proved recalcitrant, but not irremediably so. Indeed, the Chinese seem to appreciate the gravity of the present situation, and may still be prepared to cooperate with the U.S. if we persist in our efforts. The reason is that the Chinese may ultimately put their own national interest above habit. The key Chinese interest is that Korea not be nuclearized, because that presupposes a nuclear Japan. China also prefers, however, for perfectly understandable Realpolitik reasons, that Korea not be unified. China has been a free rider on U.S. policy and power for years to achieve both of these interests, and has never been forced to choose between the two. Now that choice is looming: China's reliance on U.S. policy to prevent the nuclearization of the Korean peninsula is proving ill-founded. Meanwhile, as a result of North Korean proliferation, the U.S. has an interest in bringing about a unified non-nuclear Korea in which some redefined U.S. military presence underwrites the peninsula's non-nuclear status. If forced to choose between a) a nuclear North Korea and b) a unified Korea under Seoul's aegis whose non-nuclear status is underwritten by the U.S., China would be slightly crazy not to choose the latter. But it will not so choose until the choice becomes inevitable.
A secondary Chinese interest, often cited, is Beijing's fear of chaos on its border. But unless one assumes that North Korea can be reformed successfully, a proposition for which there is no evidence, waiting will only make things worse from the Chinese perspective. The more time the North Korean regime has both to fail and to build nuclear weapons, the more likely its eventual collapse will be maximally calamitous. China's policy today amounts to propping up an influence-resistant and disaster-prone regime — seething with refugees ready to pour across the Chinese border by the hundreds of thousands. Concert with the U.S., Japan, and Russia, on the other hand, would give China far more influence over what may happen in North Korea , and help to manage it. If the Chinese leadership sees its choices for what they really are, why would it choose a course of minimal influence and maximum ultimate peril?
SENDING OUT FOR CHINESE
And so we come to thoughts the administration may or may not have allowed itself to think, about how the U.S. can achieve the cooperation it needs to solve the North Korean problem. In other words, how can we bring other powers, particularly China, to the point of serious decisions that will lead them to join with the United States?
Charles Krauthammer recently suggested using the "Japan card" for this purpose — in other words, telling the Chinese that their failure to help us isolate North Korea would make the U.S. receptive to Japanese nuclear-weapons development. The U.S. need not say a word to Beijing about this, however; the Chinese understand the stakes better than we do. Besides, we have a far more dramatic option — the explanation of which requires a brief preface.
It made sense for the U.S. to risk war on the Korean peninsula between 1953 and the end of the Cold War, for Korea was bound up in a larger struggle. We could not opt out of any major theater in that struggle without the risk of losing all. But it no longer makes sense to run such risks. What larger stakes since 1991 have justified the costs and dangers of keeping 37,000 U.S. troops in South Korea, the overburdening of the U.S.-South Korean relationship, and the tensions caused to the U.S.-Japanese alliance? None that is readily apparent in the cold light of U.S. interests.
The division of Korea puts U.S. interests at risk more than it does those of any other major regional power (we have troops there; we — not China or Russia or Japan — face directly a nuclearizing adversary), and for the sake of the lowest stakes. Think about what the U.S. might suffer if war broke out in Korea, and about what we would gain from its not breaking out. We would suffer thousands of dead GIs, the probable ascription of responsibility for the razing of Seoul (and maybe Tokyo), and maybe accidental conflict with China. What do we gain from the status quo? Perpetual diplomatic heartburn with Japan and others, and the privilege of fruitlessly negotiating with Pyongyang.
In short, the end of the Cold War dramatically changed the balance of risks and rewards in U.S. Korea policy, and should have led us to adjust our stance. But U.S. policymakers conducted business as usual, only responding to North Korean threats and never themselves taking the lead to solve the underlying problem. We should have managed the transition to South Korea's responsibility for its own security, while at the same time joining with other regional powers to limit North Korea's trouble-making potential. Had we started early enough, before North Korea had nukes, we would have had far more robust military options to enforce a muscular diplomacy than we do today.
Better late than never, however; we still need to rethink the Korea problem down to its roots. When we do, we immediately see our other option: Announce our intention to withdraw all U.S. military forces from Korea. Lots of South Koreans would be delighted. More important, such an announcement would force China and the other parties to the problem to face reality.
South Koreans, having to defend themselves, will either see the illusions of their own policy or suffer the consequences of maintaining it. But it's their country, and, frankly, their potential misfortune no longer matters to us as much as it did during the Cold War.
If North Korea becomes a six-or-more-weapon nuclear power, we will be far away, with deterrence reasonably intact, and with a decent if imperfect ability to prevent North Korea from exporting fissile materials and missiles. China, however, cannot relocate. If we profess an intention to leave, Beijing will then have to choose between a nuclear North Korea and Japan (and maybe South Korea, too) on its doorstep, or joining with the U.S. and others to manage the containment, and ultimately the withering away, of the North Korean state. Until it is faced with such a choice, Beijing will temporize and try to fob off the problem on Washington, hoping as before to free-ride on us for an outcome that benefits China more than it benefits the U.S. That's reality, and the Chinese need to face it. We can help them do so. 
That’s key to solve Korean War
Kelly 10—Assistant Professor Department of Political Science & Diplomacy Pusan National University (Robert E., 16 December 2010, Yeonpyeong Shelling Summation (2): More Causes in Hindsight, [[http://asiansecurityblog.wordpress.com/2010/12/16/yeonpyeong-shelling-summation-2-more-causes-in-hindsight/]], RBatra)
China continues to calculate that an erratic, nuclearized NK is preferable to unification on Southern terms. A peninsula-wide version of SK is the only realistic unity scenario given NK’s extreme backwardness – decrepit, corrupt NK probably could not even manage the whole peninsula – and SK’s demonstrated unwillingness to sacrifice democracy for unity. China’s continued subsidization for NK’s economy is well-known and has only become more crucial as events like the famines, failed currency reform, UN sanctions, expensive nuclear program, and continued resistance to Chinese-style reforms have effectively devastated the NK economy, all the more ironic for its autarkic claims of juche. (The CIA estimates NK’s GDP at just $42 billion for 24 million people.) China’s refusal to endorse the Security Council reprimand of NK over the Cheonan signaled that when pushed, it will choose North over South.
This opens the door for continued NK intransigence and provocation. Given NK’s extreme asymmetric dependence on China, it is highly unlikely that NK would openly cross its benefactor. One can only speculate what if any Chinese red-line warnings on provocations were given to Kim Jong-Il on his recent trips to Beijing. Yeonpyeong probably did not cross that line, as the Chinese response has been widely regarded as tepid and insufficient.
North Korea’s nuclear program and aggression are direct results of Chinese neutrality
Choi 10—Dr. Choi is a political scientist educated at Indiana University and taught at the University of Wisconsin and University of Seoul (Yearn-hong, 4 June 2010, China’s role in East Asia’s peace, [[http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2010/06/137_67082.html]], RBatra)
Former President Kim Dae-jung and his successor Roh Moo-hyun launched the sunshine policy, with only wishful thinking. However, the 10 years under their rule did not produce any meaningful change in the North Korean regime. China has sided with North Korea since the 1950-53 Korean War. The latter's survival has basically depended on Beijing support, even as China has emerged as a superpower. It has used its position of permanent member of the United Nations' Security Council to protect North Korea. But its blind support and alliance with North Korea are raising questions as to China's ability as a superpower. The North Korean dictatorial regime is heading for a three-generation succession, while its people are starved to death. A hundred thousand or more North Korean people are wandering around northeast China for their mere survival. China behind North Korea supported South Korean President Kim Dae-jung's sunshine policy toward the North when it began in 1998. That sunshine policy helped the North Korean regime survive with South Korea's economic assistance and humanitarian aid. However, that has been betrayed over the years by North Korea instigating sea battles in the Yellow Sea, killing an innocent woman tourist at the Mt. Geumgang resort and the conducting of a couple of nuclear bomb and long-range missile tests, well before the torpedo attack. Now, many South Korean people believe that Seoul should give up the so-called sunshine policy. They ask why they should tolerate North Korea's barbaric acts, while continuing to provide astronomical economic assistance it. Ten years is more than long enough to see some decent changes in the North, but nothing has happened. Behind this “no change,” has been China. This is a very unfortunate situation for China and North Korea. Some, a very few, American journalists are sympathetic to the North Korean dictatorship and critical of South Korean President Lee Myung-bak's hard-line policy toward the North. They are ridiculous. These people do not see the cause-and-effect relationship. Lee has been trying to maintain a reciprocal relationship with the North. He has genuinely tried to maintain an amicable relationship with Pyongyang under the most difficult situations. President Barack Obama's foreign policy toward North Korea has been one ``tough but fair." Lee and Obama have made every effort to bring North Korea to the table for the six-nation talks to freeze its nuclear ambitions for a ``nuclear-free Korean Peninsula." Nevertheless, China has not used its superpower status and its U.N. Security Council membership to punish North Korea for its barbaric acts. That is the reason why the latter continues to behave like an ugly barbarian nation. China should do something to admonish and penalize crimes willfully committed by the North and any other countries: China is trying to say ``neutral" on the two Koreas. Neutrality is just an excuse. Under the name of neutrality, it provides forgiveness and encouragements of crimes against humanity. Under the protection of China, North Korea developed nuclear weapons and threatened South Korea, Japan and the United States. Why is this? Probably because North Korea is China's colony or satellite. China should be serious toward North Korea, and control the latter's behavior. It is in a position to teach and admonish its ``satellite" country. Superpower nations should not just be armed with nuclear weapons, but civility and humility. China should show the world its decency, civility and responsibility. Rogue nations should be punished by the international community. The United Nations is supposed to be a decent organization. Assume: China's naval ship was destroyed by Taiwan's submarine attack, and 46 were killed. Could China be quiet or neutral? China will not tolerate any attack from any nation. If this is the case, China should not tolerate the North Korean submarine's torpedo attack on a South Korean ship in South Korean waters. There is no excuse for China's “neutrality”which only encourages North Korea's barbaric acts!
Escalation is likely – China pressure solves
Bush 1/13—senior fellow in the Foreign Policy program at The Brookings Institution, director of Brookings’s Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies, served for nineteen years in the U.S. Government, in the Congress, the intelligence community, and as chairman and managing director of the American Institute in Taiwan. Co-Authored by Jonathan D. Pollack, Professor of Asian and Pacific Studies and Director of the Strategic Research Department at the Naval War College (Richard C., The U.S.-China Summit and the Korean Peninsula: Is Cooperation Possible?, 13 January 2011, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/richard-c-bush-iii/the-uschina-summit-and-th_b_808284.html]], RBatra)
Beijing's record during 2010 was far more disconcerting. In March, North Korea sank a South Korean corvette, killing forty-six sailors. In November, it revealed the existence of a facility for enriching uranium, providing Pyongyang an additional prospective path for fissile material development apart from its existing plutonium capability. Later in the same month, it shelled a coastal island, killing South Korean soldiers and civilians. Yet China declined to call Pyongyang to account for these outrages, and sought to protect North Korea from international opprobrium.
China's responses diverged sharply from those of the United States, South Korea and Japan. It talked the talk of major-power cooperation but it did not walk the walk, even in the face of direct threats to regional stability and security about which Beijing has professed repeated concern. Moreover, Beijing openly chastised Washington for undertaking enhanced defense cooperation with Seoul and Tokyo to inhibit additional provocations by Pyongyang.
South Korea has stated that it will no longer tolerate future provocations by the North. It also voices open doubt that Beijing will restrain Pyongyang. South Korean retaliation for additional North Korean actions is no longer a question of if, but of when. Even if Seoul responds in a focused and proportionate manner, such retaliation creates the danger of a cycle of escalation.
Korean War leads to multiple scenarios for global conflict
Karlin 10—independent writer, author, analyst, educated at UC Berkeley (Anatoly, 28 March 2010, How a Second Korean War will be Fought, [[http://www.sublimeoblivion.com/2010/03/28/korean-war-2/]], RBatra)
If this were to happen, all bets are off. China will probably be able to roll back the invasion forces to the DMZ. After all, it managed to do this in the 1950′s, when it was much more militarily backwards relative to the US. Now, it will have a big preponderance over land, while its new “carrier-killing” ballistic missiles, submarines, cruise missiles, and Flanker fighters are now, at some level, able to deny the seas off China to the US Navy, while its anti-satellite tests and cyberwar prowess means that the American dominance in space and information ought not be taken for granted either. Now I am not saying that the Chinese Army (it ceased by the People’s Liberation Army recently) comes anywhere close to matching the American military; however, it might well already have the ability to defeat it in a local war on China’s borders. If China is successful, it will re-establish North Korea as its own protectorate, although under someone more rational and reliable than Kim Jong-il (though needless to say this will also completely sever its economic relationship with the US and cause a severe, but temporary, economic contraction due to the collapse of its export sector).
There will be a cascade of consequences elsewhere. Taiwan may use the opportunity to declare independence, provoking a second war in the region. Though the US says that it will not come to Taiwan’s aid if it does this unilaterally, America will probably change its mind if it is simultaneously embroiled in an intense local war with China on the Korean peninsula! Other actors opposed to American hegemony may view this as a chance to undermine the overstretched superpower. For instance, Russia could orchestrate a new war against Georgia and China may even persuade Iran to mine the Strait of Hormuz in exchange for security guarantees and technology transfer. All these dominoes going down may even precipitate the collapse of the increasingly fragile Pax Americana.
Korea war goes global and nuclear
STRATFOR 10 (5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” [[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula]], JMP)
So the real issue is the potential for escalation — or an accident that could precipitate escalation — that would be beyond the control of Pyongyang or Seoul. With both sides on high alert, both adhering to their own national (and contradictory) definitions of where disputed boundaries lie and with rules of engagement loosened, the potential for sudden and rapid escalation is quite real.
Indeed, North Korea’s navy, though sizable on paper, is largely a hollow shell of old, laid-up vessels. What remains are small fast attack craft and submarines — mostly Sang-O “Shark” class boats and midget submersibles. These vessels are best employed in the cluttered littoral environment to bring asymmetric tactics to bear — not unlike those Iran has prepared for use in the Strait of Hormuz. These kinds of vessels and tactics — including, especially, the deployment of naval mines — are poorly controlled when dispersed in a crisis and are often impossible to recall.
For nearly 40 years, tensions on the Korean Peninsula were managed within the context of the wider Cold War. During that time it was feared that a second Korean War could all too easily escalate into and a thermonuclear World War III, so both Pyongyang and Seoul were being heavily managed from their respective corners. In fact, USFK was long designed to ensure that South Korea could not independently provoke that war and drag the Americans into it, which for much of the Cold War period was of far greater concern to Washington than North Korea attacking southward.
Today, those constraints no longer exist. There are certainly still constraints — neither the United States nor China wants war on the peninsula. But current tensions are quickly escalating to a level unprecedented in the post-Cold War period, and the constraints that do exist have never been tested in the way they might be if the situation escalates much further. 
Chinese cooperation on sanctioning North Korea is the only way to solve de-nuclearization
Oh 10—PhD from Korea University in North Korean studies, researcher at the Sejong Institute (Gyeong-seob, Sejong Policy Studies, Vol. 6, No. 2, 2010, “International Cooperation for the Denuclearization of North Korea: Limitations and Alternatives,” RBatra)
To force North Korea to abandon its nuclear programs, the international community has to consider the fact that the North has developed nuclear weapons as a means of survival. It should therefore either make it too costly for the North to continue its nuclear programs – to the extent that possessing nuclear arms threatens the existence of the regime – or collectively guarantee its survival. The international community, however, has failed to increase the cost for the North’s nuclear armament due to the limitations of applied sanctions. On the other hand, under the anarchistic system of the international community, it also is difficult for nations to provide comprehensive security measures to protect North Korea, let alone carry them out, because nations are afraid of being deceived by others.
Those are the two key obstacles to international cooperation in the denuclearization of North Korea.
2) Limitations of the Sanctions
For successful international cooperation in denuclearizing North Korea, the cost of possessing nuclear weapons and subsequent disadvantage should be so immense as to make the North’s regime feel a serious threat of its demise. To arouse such a sense of vulnerability, concerned nations should take military options or enforce strong punitive sanctions. But a military strike has been excluded from feasible options since the first North Korean nuclear crisis of the early 1990s. At the height of the first nuclear crisis, Washington had prepared phased military action as well as economic sanctions, but the military option was shelved after former President Jimmy Carter’s visit to Pyongyang. Both South Korean and Chinese authorities also strongly objected to taking military actions against the North: Seoul feared the possibility of an all-out war with the North while China was worried about the destabilization of the regional situation. 
Therefore, from the first nuclear crisis, North Korea perceived that the United States was unable to take military steps and consequently, the international community faced serious limitations in reining in North Korea. In the following years, the North test-fired long-range missiles, conducted nuclear tests twice and disclosed a uranium enrichment program to boldly escalate the crisis, and finally declared its being a nuclear-possessing power.
During the second North Korean nuclear crisis, South Korea and China opposed the U.S.-led economic sanctions against the North, which they argued would only aggravate the security situation on the Korean peninsula. Beginning in the late 1990s, South Korea promoted an engagement policy with the North, asserting that the South could induce the North to abandon its nuclear programs through dialogue if the international community eased pressure on the Pyongyang regime. The Roh Moo-hyun administration in Seoul did not take strong punitive actions even after the North conducted nuclear tests in 2006 and 2009 but instead increased economic aid and expanded economic cooperation.
China took a lukewarm attitude at the time of the North’s first nuclear test, and then agreed to the U.N. Security Council resolution after the second test, but without joining sanctions against Pyongyang. In other words, the international community failed to deliver a clear message to North Korea that its possession of nuclear weapons could lead to the collapse of its present regime. And there also was no dramatic rise in the North’s cost of possessing nuclear arms.
The UNSC adopted Resolution 1718 after North Korea conducted its first nuclear test on October 9, 2006, and Resolution 1874 after the second nuclear test on May 25, 2009. Under these U.N. resolutions, North Korea is being subjected to international sanctions that include bans on financial transactions related to weapons of mass destruction and arms trade, search of suspected ships and seizure of banned items, and prohibition on exporting luxury goods to the North. But these measures have exposed fundamental limitations in threatening the survival of the North Korean regime.
3) Concerns about Deception among Nations
Some experts have claimed that North Korea would give up its nuclear programs when a peace treaty is concluded between the North and the United States and other nations concerned. This argument ignores the reality of international politics, however. When we review the events related to the North Korean nuclear issue over the past two decades, both the United States and North Korea were unable to reach an agreement because of their mutual distrust and they exhibited very little possibility of implementing any agreement because of their mutual worries of being deceived by the other side.
During the past 20 years, North Korea has deceived the international community by vowing nonproliferation but at the same time taking strenuous steps to obtain nuclear materials. At the time of the first nuclear crisis, North Korea broke its promise to accept inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and unilaterally declared withdrawal from the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty. The 1994 Agreed Framework, an accord between the United States and North Korea signed after months of negotiations in Geneva, was scrapped under mutual distrust prompted by the North’s acts of deception.
Pyongyang secretly carried out a uranium enrichment program after the signing of the Geneva accord, which provided a freeze of the North’s nuclear programs in exchange for energy aid by the United States, South Korea and other nations. The six-party talks to settle the second North Korean nuclear crisis have produced agreements and promises, none of which have been faithfully implemented. The two nuclear tests by North Korea have proved that the North has been cheating the international community.
A review of the first and second nuclear crises suggests an extremely low possibility that the international community and North Korea can reach an agreement through dialogue. Even if an agreement is reached, the chances are very low that the agreement will be honored, and there is no way of verifying its implementation if Pyongyang promises to do so.
The international community suspects that North Korea could break any promise and resume nuclear programs; on the other hand, the North would not completely trust the international community’s guarantee of the security of the regime. National security is a matter of survival and any mistake is irreversible. It is unrealistic to expect North Korea to forsake its nuclear programs on the back of international assurances.
Even if the United States and South Korea make good their assurance of North Korea’s security following complete denuclearization of the country, there still can be serious problems. Suppose the North Korean system is so durable that it can withstand external influences; the Pyongyang regime could quicken its economic openness and adopt reforms – and be unthreatened.
But, Pyongyang leaders know how vulnerable their system is. Since the collapse of the socialist system, North Korea has remained a pariah, pursuing “socialism of our own” and defying reform and openness. It is therefore unimaginable that North Korea would trust non-interference by the world in its domestic affairs. Summing up, North Korea’s demand for an international guarantee of its security is nothing but a ploy to justify its nuclear arsenal and to delay multilateral denuclearization talks.
2. China’s Non-participation in International Sanctions
International efforts to disarm North Korea have failed because of China’s reluctance to participate in sanctions on the North. Following North Korea’s second nuclear test in May 2009, there were heated debates between China’s “strategists” and “traditionalists.” The former argued that the Chinese government should strongly push for the North’s denuclearization by fully utilizing its political and economic leverage on Pyongyang, pointing to changes in the two countries’ bilateral relations. The traditionalists emphasized the importance of the Beijing-Pyongyang alliance. They called for substantial economic aid to the North, which they said was necessary to stabilize the North Korean situation and prevent provocative activities against South Korea and the United States.
The traditionalists won the debate. The Chinese government decided that the stabilization of the North Korean regime was more important than the denuclearization of the North. In order to prevent the fall of the North Korean regime, China started economic aid to the North.
When special relations between nations cause a crack in international sanctions against a targeted country, the measures are destined to lose their effect. China resisted sanctions on North Korea because of its unstable relations with the United States. In the post-Cold War era, the ideological and systemic differences between the United States and China and their economic and psychological conflicts have produced a roller-coaster relationship that alternates between competition and cooperation.
North Korean prolif risks nuclear strikes and broad Asian prolif
Hayes and Hamel-Green 9—Professor of International Relations, RMIT University, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, degree in History, PhD from Berkeley—AND—Michael Hamel-Green, Professor, Executive Dean, Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development @ Victoria University, BA MA Melb, DipEd Hawthorn, PhD La Trobe (Peter, 14 December 2009, The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia," The Asia-Pacific Journal, [[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Michael-Hamel_Green/3267]], RBatra)
The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments, and related political and economic issues, are serious, not only for the Northeast Asian region but for the whole international community.
At worst, there is the possibility of nuclear attack1, whether by intention, miscalculation, or merely accident, leading to the resumption of Korean War hostilities. On the Korean Peninsula itself, key population centres are well within short or medium range missiles. The whole of Japan is likely to come within North Korean missile range. Pyongyang has a population of over 2 million, Seoul (close to the North Korean border) 11 million, and Tokyo over 20 million. Even a limited nuclear exchange would result in a holocaust of unprecedented proportions.
But the catastrophe within the region would not be the only outcome. New research indicates that even a limited nuclear war in the region would rearrange our global climate far more quickly than global warming. Westberg draws attention to new studies modelling the effects of even a limited nuclear exchange involving approximately 100 Hiroshima-sized 15 kt bombs2 (by comparison it should be noted that the United States currently deploys warheads in the range 100 to 477 kt, that is, individual warheads equivalent in yield to a range of 6 to 32 Hiroshimas).The studies indicate that the soot from the fires produced would lead to a decrease in global temperature by 1.25 degrees Celsius for a period of 6-8 years.3 In Westberg’s view: 
That is not global winter, but the nuclear darkness will cause a deeper drop in temperature than at any time during the last 1000 years. The temperature over the continents would decrease substantially more than the global average. A decrease in rainfall over the continents would also follow…The period of nuclear darkness will cause much greater decrease in grain production than 5% and it will continue for many years...hundreds of millions of people will die from hunger…To make matters even worse, such amounts of smoke injected into the stratosphere would cause a huge reduction in the Earth’s protective ozone.4
These, of course, are not the only consequences. Reactors might also be targeted, causing further mayhem and downwind radiation effects, superimposed on a smoking, radiating ruin left by nuclear next-use. Millions of refugees would flee the affected regions. The direct impacts, and the follow-on impacts on the global economy via ecological and food insecurity, could make the present global financial crisis pale by comparison. How the great powers, especially the nuclear weapons states respond to such a crisis, and in particular, whether nuclear weapons are used in response to nuclear first-use, could make or break the global non proliferation and disarmament regimes. There could be many unanticipated impacts on regional and global security relationships5, with subsequent nuclear breakout and geopolitical turbulence, including possible loss-of-control over fissile material or warheads in the chaos of nuclear war, and aftermath chain-reaction affects involving other potential proliferant states. The Korean nuclear proliferation issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community. 
North Korea is currently believed to have sufficient plutonium stocks to produce up to 12 nuclear weapons.6 If and when it is successful in implementing a uranium enrichment program - having announced publicly that it is experimenting with enrichment technology on September 4, 20097 in a communication with the UN Security Council - it would likely acquire the capacity to produce over 100 such weapons. Although some may dismiss Korean Peninsula proliferation risks on the assumption that the North Korean regime will implode as a result of its own economic problems, food problems, and treatment of its own populace, there is little to suggest that this is imminent. If this were to happen, there would be the risk of nuclear weapons falling into hands of non-state actors in the disorder and chaos that would ensue. Even without the outbreak of nuclear hostilities on the Korean Peninsula in either the near or longer term, North Korea has every financial incentive under current economic sanctions and the needs of its military command economy to export its nuclear and missile technologies to other states. Indeed, it has already been doing this for some time. The Proliferation Security Initiative may conceivably prove effective in intercepting ship-borne nuclear exports, but it is by no means clear how air-transported materials could similarly be intercepted.
Given the high stakes involved, North Korean proliferation, if unaddressed and unreversed, has the potential to destabilize the whole East Asian region and beyond. Even if a nuclear exchange does not occur in the short term, the acute sense of nuclear threat that has been experienced for over five decades by North Koreans as a result of US strategic deterrence is now likely to be keenly felt by fellow Koreans south of the 38th Parallel and Japanese across the waters of the Sea of Japan. China, too, must surely feel itself to be at risk from North Korean nuclear weapons, or from escalation that might ensue from next-use in the Korean Peninsula resulting not only in the environmental consequences noted above, but in regime collapse and massive refugee flows. South Korea and Japan appear willing to rely on their respective bilateral security pacts with the United States to deter North Korean nuclear attack for the time being. However, should South Korea and/or Japan acquire nuclear weapons, the outcome would be destabilizing, especially if this resulted from rupture of their alliance relationships with the United States. Both have the technical capability to do so very rapidly. South Korea has previously engaged in nuclear weapons research but desisted after US pressure. Japan still proclaims its adherence to the three Non-Nuclear Principles although recent confirmation that the United States routinely transited nuclear weapons through Japan and retains the right of emergency reintroduction of nuclear weapons has tarnished Japan’s non-nuclear image. Moreover, it has large stockpiles of plutonium that could rapidly be used to produce nuclear warheads. Such responses, already advocated by conservative and nationalist groups within South Korea and Japan, could trigger a regional nuclear arms race involving the Koreas, Japan, Taiwan, and China, with incalculable wider consequences for Southeast Asia, South Asia and the whole Pacific and beyond. These developments would spell the demise of the current global non-proliferation regime as underpinned by the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Failure to reverse the DPRK’s nuclear breakout is also an important factor driving a general malaise in the exercise of American power which one of the authors has characterized elsewhere as “the end of American nuclear hegemony.”8
Escalates to nuclear war 
Cimbala 10 - Prof. of Political Science @ Penn State, (Stephen, Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century, p. 117-8)
Failure to contain proliferation in Pyongyang could spread nuclear fever throughout Asia. Japan and South Korea might seek nuclear weapons and missile defenses. A pentagonal configuration of nuclear powers in the Pacific basis (Russia, China, Japan, and the two Koreas – not including the United States, with its own Pacific interests) could put deterrence at risk and create enormous temptation toward nuclear preemption. Apart from actual use or threat of use, North Korea could exploit the mere existence of an assumed nuclear capability in order to support its coercive diplomacy. As George H. Quester has noted:
If the Pyongyang regime plays its cards sensibly and well, therefore, the world will not see its nuclear weapons being used against Japan or South Korea or anyone else, but will rather see this new nuclear arsenal held in reserve (just as the putative Israeli nuclear arsenal has been held in reserve), as a deterrent against the outside world’s applying maximal pressure on Pyongyang and as a bargaining chip to extract the economic and political concessions that the DPRK needs if it wishes to avoid giving up its peculiar approach to social engineering.
A five-sided nuclear competition in the Pacific would be linked, in geopolitical deterrence and proliferation space, to the existing nuclear deterrents in India and Pakistan, and to the emerging nuclear weapons status of Iran. An arc of nuclear instability from Tehran to Tokyo could place U.S. proliferation strategies into the ash heap of history and call for more drastic military options, not excluding preemptive war, defenses, and counter-deterrent special operations. In addition, an eight-sided nuclear arms race in Asia would increase the likelihood of accidental or inadvertent nuclear war. It would do so because: (1) some of these states already have histories of protracted conflict; (2) states may have politically unreliable or immature command and control systems, especially during a crisis involving a decision for nuclear first strike or retaliation; unreliable or immature systems might permit a technical malfunction that caused an unintended launch, or a deliberate but unauthorized launch by rogue commanders; (3) faulty intelligence and warning systems might cause one side to misinterpret the other’s defensive moves to forestall attack as offensive preparations for attack, thus triggering a mistaken preemption.
Removal of forces from South Korea is key to ensure Chinese pressure—this solves currency devaluation—key to global economic recovery
Sica 11/27—president, Sica Wealth Management, which currently manages nearly 1 billion in client assets, real estate and private equity holdings, consistently ranked among the top producing advisors in the country and as a specialist in managing assets (Jeffrey, 27 November 2010, “SPIRIT OF FREEDOM-What the Conflict on the Korean Peninsula Means to the World Economy”, [[http://blogs.forbes.com/jeffreysica/2010/11/27/spirit-of-freedom-what-the-conflict-on-the-korean-peninsula-means-to-the-world-economy/]], RBatra)
The most important aspect of this confrontation is how North Korea’s closest ally, China, deals with their recent aggression and insatiable need to advance their nuclear capabilities. China has a long history of using North Korea as a buffer against the US. Since the end of the Korean War, they have been leery of our strong alliance and our military presence in South Korea. They have never welcomed having our warships anywhere near their coastline. Furthermore, they have yet to firmly condemn North Korea on the attack of a South Korean warship which killed 46 sailors last March, the revelations of their nuclear capabilities or the most recent events. Alternatively, China, in a statement from its foreign ministry regarding our military exercises, has chosen to warn the US against “any military acts in our exclusive economic zone without permission.” In other words, China is threatening the US not to come too close to their coastline or face consequences. This statement by China will only serve to encourage the radical Korean dictator and his offspring to further threaten South Korea and defy the US. It should concern the Obama Administration that the strongest stand taken by the Chinese has been against the US protection of our allies, and not against the aggression of a radical dictator. 
The US market fell this week amid concerns that the Korean peninsula conflict will escalate. The bulls have chosen to focus on this conflict as yet another example of “saber rattling” from North Korea, but its consequence could be far greater than ever before, considering a few key factors. FIRST, China has the greatest influence over North Korea and how they handle them will substantially affect the world economy. SECOND, China is the largest foreign holder of US Government debt in the history of our nation, with holdings of nearly 900 billion dollars. This position gives them significant leverage over the US and substantially undermines our ability to negotiate with them when they side against us, as they seem to be doing now. THIRD, China has systematically devalued the juan in response to QE2 creating the dawn of inflation as we are beginning to see now and will soon see in the US. The recent interest rate increase in China has yet to show signs of curbing inflation. If the US and China are unable to come to terms with the conflict in the Korean Peninsula, it is unlikely they will come to terms with stabilizing their currencies — continuing on a path of systematically devaluing currencies and creating a future threat of inflation while undermining a worldwide economic recovery. Finally, an insane dictator with nuclear weapons that is not kept at bay, by its closest ally and neighbor, is always a threat to the economy and well being of nations throughout the world. China has a responsibility to help stabilize the region and until they do, uncertainty and fear will remain throughout the worldwide financial markets, keeping us in a very defensive position. 
Extinction 
Harris & Burrows 2009 Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf
Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, history may be more instructive than ever. While we continue to believe that the Great Depression is not likely to be repeated, the lessons to be drawn from that period include the harmful effects on fledgling democracies and multiethnic societies (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s) and on the sustainability of multilateral institutions (think League of Nations in the same period). There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century. For that reason, the ways in which the potential for greater conflict could grow would seem to be even more apt in a constantly volatile economic environment as they would be if change would be steadier. In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. Terrorism’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced. For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most dangerous capabilities within their reach. Terrorist groups in 2025 will likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups_inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that become self-radicalized, particularly in the absence of economic outlets that would become narrower in an economic downturn. The most dangerous casualty of any economically-induced drawdown of U.S. military presence would almost certainly be the Middle East. Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable, worries about a nuclear-armed Iran could lead states i n the region to develop new security arrangements with external powers, acquire additional weapons, and consider pursuing their own nuclear ambitions. It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity conflict and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella could lead to an unintended escalation and broader conflict if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. The close proximity of potential nuclear rivals combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also will produce inherent difficulties in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, short warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty of Iranian intentions may place more focus on preemption rather than defense, potentially leading to escalating crises. 36 Types of conflict that the world continues to experience, such as over resources, could reemerge, particularly if protectionism grows and there is a resort to neo-mercantilist practices. Perceptions of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this could result in interstate conflicts if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources, for example, to be essential for maintaining domestic stability and the survival of their regime. Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. If the fiscal stimulus focus for these countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional naval capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves, but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes. With water also becoming scarcer in Asia and the Middle East, cooperation to manage changing water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world. 
==Jeju Island Advantage== 
Presence in South Korea kills the environment on Jeju Island
Gagnon 10—Coordinator of the Global Network Against Weapons & Nuclear Power in Space (Bruce K., “South Korean villagers say ‘No!’ to U.S. Navy base”, [[http://www.timesrecord.com/articles/2010/07/02/opinion/commentaries/doc4c2e2493e0dfe283807936.txt]], RBatra) **NOTE: Jeju Island is an island under the control of South Korea, proof: www.visitkorea.or.kr/enu/SI/SI_EN_3_6.jsp?cid=256109
The U.S. wants to deploy Aegis destroyers, built here at Bath Iron Works, at the base on Jeju Island largely because of its strategic proximity to China. China imports 80 percent of its oil on ships and a Navy base on Jeju would help give the U.S. ability to “control” this vital shipping lane in the Yellow Sea. While the declining U.S. economy can’t compete with China anymore, the Pentagon is embarking on a strategy that says if we can control access to declining supplies of oil then we will still hold the keys to the global economic engine.
A very provocative strategy indeed.
Gangjeong village is famous for growing tangerines and for its fishing and soft coral reefs. UNESCO has named the sea coast there as one of the world’s environmental jewels. The building of a Navy base in Gangjeong, to serve as a port for the growing U.S. Aegis destroyer fleet, will require dredging of the sea bed and destruction of the coral.
That destroys global ocean biodiversity
Aboelsaud 9 (Yasmin Aboelsaud, 26 November 2009, “Jeju’s marine ecology enjoyed by tourists and scientists”, [[http://jejuweekly.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=426]], RBatra)
Some of Jeju’s treasures are clearly visible, while others are tucked beneath the surface of the bright blue ocean. The hidden gems in Jeju’s waters create a colourful display of all shapes and sizes, almost disguising its essential ocean habitats and species; the extraordinary marine ecosystem which attracts tourists and scientists alike.
“This place [Jeju] is so important because we’re not really located in a subtropical environment, but it is becoming really subtropical due to global warming,” said Dr. Choi Kwang-Sik, a marine ecology professor at Jeju National University, commenting on the tropical and subtropical species that gather in Jeju’s waters. “The biodiversity is really high in terms of numbers of species.”
The southern coast of Jeju is the main habitat for corals, as the coral distribution is confined to the areas with the warm currents called, Kuroshio. “We got Kuroshio and the cold water coming in and mixing in Jeju, and that’s why we have many different species and marine creatures living in Jeju Island, in coasts and even offshore,” explained Dr. Choi, who first visited Jeju as a young student in 1980 and fell in love with the island while snorkeling. Dr. Choi would visit the island every summer and winter after that, until making it his permanent home in 1995.
Although he hasn’t snorkeled or dived in Jeju recently, Dr. Choi sees underwater photographs taken by local SCUBA divers and his university students each year and has been noticing some changes. “I see certain species from tropical areas, like the small and poisonous Portuguese man-of-war.”
The Portuguese man-of-war is a kind of jellyfish and its beautiful blue colour resembles the shape of a balloon. Like other jelly fishes, its tentacles are covered in venom. Although not deadly, the sting is known to be excruciating for humans.
“They’re floating away from the tropical areas, like Okinawa or Taiwan,” said Dr. Choi. “In the past, there would be one or two. Nowadays, every summer they come. That’s a certain sign of global warming,” he added.
Even during the winter, Jeju’s water temperature remains over 15 degrees Celsius, while the mainland’s water hovers around the 5 to 10 degrees mark. The temperature is essential in maintaining the distinctive coral life. It is the reason Seogwipo and the south of the island, are the main coral habitats around Jeju. Surrounding the Munseom islet are some of the most impressive corals and fish species; so impressive that Munseom, along with the Beomseom(Tiger) islet nearby, were designated Natural Monument Protection Areas in 2001. These are sites frequented by tourists and SCUBA divers. They are home to Jeju’s soft coral communities.
The soft corals, oyster reef systems, and gorgonians, which are prominent reefs that attach to rocks, have various types of habitats like sloping rocks, offshore banks, and pinnacles under water.
Soft coral communities can be confused with coral reefs, but they are not the same. “Soft coral community is not a reef. Reef means you have a main frame coral, but we don’t have that here, we have only solitary stony coral commonly found in temperate waters,” said Dr. Choi. Coral reefs require warm water, over 20 degrees Celsius even in the winter, which does not happen in Jeju.
With this invaluable underwater treasure, citizens of Jeju realize the importance of protecting its biodiversity and marine ecosystem, especially with the growing number of SCUBA divers and ecotourists. The Jeju National University, with support from Sea Grant, offered a free course this semester for the public regarding ecotourism and marine biodiversity. About 50 students are enrolled, most with professions related to marine biology or tourism on the island, hoping to expand their experience and knowledge about Jeju’s ecology.
Some programs are also available for junior high and high school students interested in marine biology. Dr. Choi explained the necessity of such programs, “to give them some inspiration. Who knows, in the future they may become marine biologists.” And Jeju will need them.
With global warming, the biodiversity is changing annually. Sustaining and protecting Jeju’s aquatic treasure is an ongoing process. It is not just imperative for environmental reasons, but for tourism, which affects the socio-economics of the local communities.
Bases in South Korea are the epitome of U.S. militarism – the impact is massive structural violence
Ahn 4/2—policy analyst with expertise in Korea, globalization, militarism, women's rights and philanthropy, holds a master's degree in public policy from Georgetown University and a certificate in ecological horticulture from the University of California, Santa Cruz – AND – Sukjong Hong, member of Nodutdol for Korean Community Development (Christine, 2 April 2011, Bring War Dollars Home by Closing Down Bases, [[http://original.antiwar.com/christine-ahn/2011/04/01/bring-war-dollars-home-by-closing-down-bases/]], RBatra)
Bases are the most visible structures of the U.S. drive to maintain global military hegemony. Yet for most Americans, bases remain out of sight and outside the national discourse on war. Many don’t know about the enormous footprint of U.S. military installations around the world and how they undermine the lives and aspirations of the people who live directly in their shadow. Ending U.S. wars is essential, but closing down foreign bases is even more critical to dismantling U.S. militarism and global hegemony.
On the island of Cheju off the coast of South Korea, villagers are struggling to prevent the construction of a South Korean naval base intended for U.S. military use. In 2009, one of us traveled there and can still remember the tattered yellow flags lining the fence posts of homes, symbolizing the movement’s determination to stop the project. Walking along the endangered rocky coastline at the edge of this quiet village of farmers and fisherfolk, it was clear that Cheju Island and other sites of U.S. military bases in Korea have borne enormous costs to the people and to the future of peace in the region.
A Huge Financial Cost
Most figures used to estimate the cost of U.S. wars omit the global network of U.S. bases that provides vital resources and infrastructure to existing military conflicts. The Pentagon’s 2010 Base Structure Report, for example, lists 662 overseas bases but fails to include the 411 bases in Afghanistan, the 88 remaining bases in Iraq, or sites in Qatar and other countries where U.S. military personnel are stationed. Maintaining and constructing all U.S. bases cost American taxpayers $41.6 billion in 2010, according to Undersecretary of Defense Dorothy Robyn.
Of these 662 overseas bases, more than 70 military installations and bases and 28,500 U.S. troops are stationed in South Korea. Ted Galen Carpenter and Doug Bandow of the Cato Institute estimate that the cost of U.S. bases in Korea “probably runs on the order of $15 to $20 billion annually.” Although the United States and South Korea have agreed to reduce and consolidate the number of U.S. military bases in Korea, other bases and training ranges — including Osan Air Base in Pyeongtaek — are expanding displacing thousands of villagers and destroying Korea’s productive and limited farmland. ­
The agreements governing the responsibility for U.S. base relocation in Korea illustrate the unequal dynamic prevalent in countries that host U.S. bases. Under the Special Measures and Base Relocation Agreements, the United States and South Korea agreed to share the cost burden of moving U.S. bases, with South Korea obligated to pay more than half that cost. In 2008, South Korea paid $741.4 million, angering South Koreans unhappy over having to foot the majority of the moving bill and pay to clean up 60 years of environmental contamination. At some of the 23 bases ”returned” to South Korea, the levels of contamination are 100 times above the limit set by Korean law. Cleanup at these sites will require years of decontamination at enormous cost to South Korean citizens, not to mention the public health and ecological consequences for generations to come.
Moreover, U.S. bases and troop presence are an extension of U.S. intervention in South Korea. Historically, the U.S. military provided legitimacy, economic aid, and protection to dictatorial regimes that maintained their power with brute force. Today, the U.S. and South Korean governments control and suppress dissent through the infrastructure of bases, particularly Pyeongtaek and Osan, which are now major U.S. military intelligence outposts for the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA). While conducting research for his book Spies for Hire on the privatization of U.S. intelligence, Tim Shorrock found unsavory evidence of eavesdropping on Korean civilian activities by U.S. military bases located there. Although the primary target of surveillance activity is North Korea, U.S. intelligence also monitors China and Vietnam from Korean bases. What worries Shorrock is that since 9/11, what is considered a threat has widened to include almost any activity that questions or challenges U.S. interests. His discovery of the U.S. military in Korea colluding with Korean police to monitor anti-base activities is “an amazingly frank assessment that the anti-bases movement is being as closely monitored, and probably more so, than Al Qaeda – and basically puts the movement in the same camp as global terrorists." But it’s not just anti-base movements. Recently protests against the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement were also noted in the log of the U.S. forces in Korea.
Resistance to U.S. Military Bases in Korea
Given the fierce opposition to U.S. military bases throughout the Asia-Pacific rim, the United States has become savvy at reducing its military footprint in regions where its presence is politically contested. Rather than establish its own base, the U.S. military has sought the cover of the South Korean military in the construction of a new naval base in Cheju, an island located off the southern coast of South Korea.
The people of Cheju Island are known for their fierce resistance to Korea’s division and occupation by U.S. troops over the south during the post-World War II period. For their resistance, the people of Cheju paid dearly. Following the April 3 rebellion of 1948, South Korean government forces killed up to 30,000 people – more than one in ten residents –for opposing separate elections between the north and south and the U.S. occupation of the southern half of Korea. In a long-awaited gesture of apology, in 2005, former President Roh Moo-Hyun named Cheju the “Peace Island.”
Cheju Island is a designated UNESCO World Heritage Site and a national protected area by the Korean Cultural Heritage Administration. The Joongduk coastline, adjacent to Gangjeong village, is home to rare sea life, including soft coral, and is the seasonal habitat for dolphins migrating across the Pacific Ocean from Alaska during the summer.
In 2002, Seoul announced plans to build a naval base on Cheju. After two villages resisted, Gangjeong Village became the government’s third target. In 2007, 94 percent of the Gangjeong Village People’s Council voted “no” to the base plans. The government then proceeded to pressure residents. Some 1,500 farmers and fishermen live in Gangjeong village, including the legendary Haenye pearl divers—women in their 50s and older who forage in the sea for their livelihoods. Some of the villagers, including a few elderly Haenye divers, sold their farmland to the military under pressure from the South Korean government. According to Sung-Hee Choi, a South Korean peace activist and blogger, many of the villagers who signed the contract now regret their decision. However, they’ve been told that if they renege, they would have to pay back the money plus interest. Still, dozens of families are resisting the naval base construction.
Coral reefs are a key tipping-point species – the impact is extinction and economic collapse
Hasegawa 10 (Kyoko, 18 October 2010, UN meet to curb species loss opens in Japan, [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5iII72JZyeYus7g5NkM8bIaNp8MMw?docId=CNG.e52a0d2eee918a18c492302fd778f8c4.411]], RBatra)
Scientists say worldwide human population pressures are wiping out ecosystems such as tropical forests and coral reefs, killing off animal and plant species that form the web of life which humanity depends on. "Our prosperity and indeed our survival depend on healthy ecosystems," said Jim Leape, the chief of the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF). "The Earth’s forests, oceans and rivers are the very foundation of our society and economy. "Even in purely economic terms, it is far, far more cost effective to conserve or restore healthy ecosystems than to artificially provide natural services that we currently take for granted." Delegates will have to acknowledge that they have failed so far to meet past pedges to stem biodiversity loss, first made when the UN biodiversity convention was adopted in 1992. At the start of the decade, UN members pledged under the Millennium Development Goals to achieve "a significant reduction" in the rate of wildlife loss by 2010, which marks the International Year of Biodiversity. Instead, habitat destruction has continued unabated. Nearly a quarter of mammals, one third of amphibians, more than one in eight birds, and more than a fifth of plant species now face the threat of extinction, says the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). In May, a UN report warned of looming "tipping points" that could irreversibly damage ecosystems such as the Amazon rainforest, through logging and land clearance, and coral reefs through global warming and overfishing.
Naval presence in the future will cause U.S.-China war and a naval arms race
Cha 10—works for the Peace Network in South Korea, FPIF contributor (Kyoungeun, 18 June 2010, “Jeju and a Naval Arms Race in Asia”, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/jeju_and_a_naval_arms_race_in_asia]], RBatra)
The Jeju naval base is a likely bone of contention between the United States and China because of missile defense. Seoul plans to dock Aegis-equipped destroyers at Jeju. These warships are the main military component of the U.S. missile defense system. According to Xinhua Chinese newspaper, South Korea plans to build a new naval base on the southern island of Jeju to expand the range of its naval operations. U.S. defense contractor Lockheed Martin provides the Aegis combat system to Seoul. “China regards missile defense as the 21st century’s greatest threat and is dissatisfied with U.S. missile defense policy,” argues Cheong Wook-sik, director of Peace Network in South Korea. China believes that, in the event of a conflict over Taiwan, the United States will inevitably become involved because of missile defense.
South Korea, meanwhile, has indicated its interest in becoming more integrated into the U.S. missile defense system. In this way, by becoming caught in a conflict between China and the United States, the naval base could endanger Jeju Island and the national security of South Korea. According to Lee Tae-ho, deputy secretary general of People’s Solidarity for Participatory Democracy in South Korea, “The Chinese government has a response strategy that first attacks U.S. missile defense in the case of an emergency. That means that the Jeju naval base will be targeted in an armed conflict between the United States and China.” Even short of war, the base will create tension among China, Japan, and Korea, which could escalate into a naval arms race in the Asia-Pacific region.
Causes miscalc and escalation
Straits Times 9 (Salim Osman, 18 November 2009, “Naval build-up in Northeast Asia”, [[http://www.asianewsnet.net/news.php?id=8691&sec=3]], RBatra)
A naval arms race that could have catastrophic consequences is developing in Asia-Pacific waters, a military expert warned at a conference here yesterday.
The naval build-up in North-east Asia has exceeded basic modernisation with the addition of new capabilities such as submarines, destroyers, large amphibious ships and long range missiles, experts said.
Professor Desmond Ball of the Australian National University warned that the build-up could lead to a calamity if it becomes a full-fledged arms race.
"There's no arms control regime in Asia that might constrain these acquisitions," he said.
He and other experts spoke at a conference on New Challenges To Asia Pacific Security organised by the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific.
Prof Ball said that, since 2000, nearly all countries in the region badly hit by the 1997 financial crisis had increased their defence spending again.
In South Korea, for instance, it rose 6.2 per cent in 2001 and then to 9.9 per cent by 2007.
"This has resulted, in rough terms, in doubling its defence capability since around 2000 beyond the level considered adequate for modernisation in the 1990s," he said. He believes that China now spends more on defence than any country in the world except the United States.
China has bought large numbers of frigates and destroyers from Russia and plans to acquire aircraft carriers as well.
Analyst Sam Bateman of the University of Wollongong in Australia said: "China is usually seen as the trigger for a naval arms race, potentially shifting the military balance in Asia, although China strongly denies the claims."
Its naval force expansion may explain the acquisition of new missile destroyers by South Korea and Japan, he said in an article distributed at the conference.
"While most navies, including the Chinese navy, stress that their capabilities are being developed for defensive purposes, it is often difficult to differentiate offensive from defensive capabilities," he said.
Chinese analyst Zhang Junshe of the Naval Research Institute said that his country was merely making modest improvements to its maritime defence capability and that its navy "was still lagging behind other countries".
"We don't think the modernisation of the navy by countries in the region constitutes an arms race," he added.
Analyst Kwa Chong Guan of Nanyang Technological University (NTU) suggested in response to the arms race there "should be more trust, more confidence building and more transparency".
The head of external programmes at NTU's Institute of Defence and Strategic Studies, he warned: "The consequence of the navy's build-up is the increasing probability of accidents and incidents at sea."