=JANUARY - FEBRUARY 2012 (TOC)= 
[[toc]]
==VERY IMPORTANT DISCLAIMER== 
IF YOU ARE A LITTLE EICHMANN DESIROUS OF STEALING OUR WICKED ARGS AND BEING RADICALLY EVIL YOURSELF YOU SHOULD KNOW THAT NONE OF THE CARDS IN THIS ARE FULL TEXT AND THEY ALL HAVE ELLIPSES. HERE IS AN ELLIPSES BAD SHELL TO RUN IF YOU HIT THIS "ARG" WE THINK IT IS FROM AN ANCIENT TEXT UNEARTHED BY ASTRO-BIOLOGIST mike bietz IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.

A) Interpretation: Debaters must not use ellipses in their evidence.

B) Violation: My opponent’s evidence contains ellipses, which maligns debate for several reasons.

C) Standards

1) Transparency– Ellipses hide and ignore certain aspects of the text that precludes debaters from checking each other from miss-cutting or miss-tagging card; which debaters have an incentive to do as debate is a competitive activity. The precludes checks because it enables debaters to cut cards out of context and leaves me without any checks unless I have the article, book or more complete excerpt with me. Therefore, this is mal-educational, since they could be mis-cutting the author, and bad for fairness.

2) Skews Ground- Ellipses leave me at a structural disadvantage because I cannot make arguments about the intent of the author or attack certain ways in which my opponent is cutting cards, this precludes checks upon abusive cuttings and power tagging of evidence, which structurally skews the adjudication of rounds because there arguments perceptual appear better than they are. This puts me at a disadvantage in the round.

3) Anti-educational- unlike academic journals, which allow for the use of ellipses, debate has time constraints that preclude the ability to access the original source of the text, thus precluding checks upon the usage of other authors. Furthermore this allows debaters to cut authors out of context which skews the understanding of the author’s philosophy. This further maligns education in that ellipses destroy the grammatical legitimacy of texts because antecedents can easily be manipulated to distort the true message.

D) Voter- This is an independent voting issue because ellipses alter the educational legitimacy of rounds, which is a voter because debate is instrumentally in providing us with skills to use in the outside world, while competitive incentives are not inherent goods, thus education functions as a procedural check in round to meet that end. Further you pull the trigger on this argument because ellipses structurally skew the fairness of the round. Fairness underwrites debate as a procedural check else I could keep on talking after my timer goes off, tear up my opponent’s cases, or get up and sign the ballot for myself right now.

ANOTHER IMPORTANT DISCLAIMER. JUST LIKE NOAH STAR - WE ARE BETTER THAN YOU AT THIS. DON'T TRY TO PLAY AROUND WITH CHAOS AND MATCHES. ALSO, RULE-CONSEQUENTIALISM. ALSO, ON WHAT MATTERS. ALSO, DAS KAPITAL.

THIS DISCLAIMER WAS WRITTEN BY MY COACH REBAR NIEMI AND NOT ME.
==LE FLEUR ROLE OF THE BALLOT== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">THIS IS A framework.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">THE COVENANT HAS BEEN VIOLATED, WE ARE IN A DEBATE OF NATURE. WHERE EV'RY DEBAT'R HATH RYTE TO EV'RY ARG. IN A DEBATE OF NATURE, THERE CAN BE NO COMMODIOUS ROUND, NOR FAIRNESS THEREOF, NOR SIGNPOSTING, OR ANY INTERP THAT AIMS TO PROTECT DEBATER FROM BEING A WOLF UNTO OTHER DEBATERS. HOBBES DEFINES WHAT IT MEANS TO DO THE BETTER DEBATING:</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times;">Hobbes in 1651[Thomas. __Leviathan__. E-Book. Philosopher, Companion to Calvin, Freedom Fighter.]</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times;">GENDER PARAPHRASED</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Times;"> __**[BETTER DEBATERS]...**____**naturally love liberty, and dominion over others)**__</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">i</span></span></span>



HE GOES ON:

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times,'Times New Roman';">Hobbes in 1651[Thomas. __Leviathan__. E-Book. Philosopher, Companion to Calvin, Freedom Fighter.] GENDER PARAPHRASED</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times,'Times New Roman';">**<span style="font-size: medium;">__[DEBATERS] live without other security than what their own strength and their own invention shall furnish them withal.__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">..</span>__**there is...**____**no...**____**earth...**____**nor use of...**__**<span style="font-size: medium;">__force; no__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">...</span>**<span style="font-size: medium;">__earth; no__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">...</span>__**time...**____**<span style="font-size: medium;">no letters</span>**...____**and which is worst of all...**__**__<span style="font-size: medium;">the life of [DEBATERS]</span>__<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">...</span>**__**solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short.**__</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times,'Times New Roman';">THE DEBATE OF NATURE NEGATES ALL THEORETICAL OBLIGATIONS AND AGREEMENTS, AND MAKES EVERYTHING EXCUSABLE BUT NOT PERMISSIBLE. THIS IS SPECIFIC IN OUR HOBBES CARDS. READ THE UNUNDERLINED TEXT IF YOU DON'T BELIEVE US. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">PART ONE: THE DEBATE OF NATURE IS THE STATUS QUO IN LD. BABB 12: </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 8pt;">its on the vb website we shouldn't have to cite this shit.</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">... </span>__**Fragments of evidence are read in rapid sequence...**____**no analysis. Evidence itself is rarely engaged with any scrutiny or counter-evidence. The spectacle is pure mockery<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">...</span>**__
__**Most of the average debater’s thinking goes into what kind of irrelevant off-case position they can use to derail the debate...**____**The schizophrenic side-shows typifying most 1NCs are as good for my brain as Happy Hour...**____**After the 1AC, I’d be shocked if half the rounds...**__**__had anything to do with the topic. That’s ridiculous.__**
__**In the few debates that don’t spiral into theoretical self-gratification, 90% of the dialogue has either to do with tangential philosophical non-sense or absurd and un-researched armchair speculation.**__
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">THERE IS NO ARBITER IN DEBATE TO DEFINE THE GOOD OR THE RIGHTEOUS, AND THUS THE DISPARATE INTERPRETATIONS FORWARDED TRIGGER A CONDITION WHEREBY EACH DEBATER HATH RIGHT TO E'RY THANG BY LACK OF THE COMMON POWER TO KEEP THEM ALL IN AWE. EACH DEBATER ATTEMPTS BY WAY OF LOGICK AND PUZZLES TO ENSNARE AND DESTROY THEIR OPPONENT. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">PART TWO: WITHIN THE DEBATE OF NATURE, ACCESS TO THE BALLOT AND THE BETTER DEBATING ARE DEFINED THUSLY.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">A. THE BETTER DEBATERS ARE THOSE WHO BECOME RADICALLY EVIL. ONLY BY DESTROYING CRITICAL REFLECTION AND NON-CONTRADICTION CAN WE SPEAK TRUTH IN THE MODERN AGE. THIS FORM OF DISCOURSE IS NECESSARILY MORE POWERFUL AND THUS BETTER ADVOCACY THAN CRITICAL INTELLIGENCE. WHEN THINGS ARE VACUOUS AND DECEPTIVE, THEY ARE THE BEST ARGUMENTS BAUDRILLARD 05:</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">Baudrillard, Jean. “From Domination to Hegemony” //The Agony of Power//. October, 2005 Pg. 38-40</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">...</span>****__Critical intelligence no longer measures up to the collapse of reality and to the passage into total reality. The truth, or the inhumanity of this situation, can only be revealed from the inside, voluntarily or involuntarily, by the agents of the embezzlement of reality...__**__**We must look to the side of evil for the clearest indications, the harshest reality. Only those who show no concern for contradiction or critical consideration in their acts and discourse can, by this very means, shed full light, without remorse or ambiguity, on the absurd and extravagant character of the state of things, through the play of objective irony.**__</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">B. BETTER DEBATERS ARE NOT THOUGHTLESS LITTLE EICHMANNS LIKE YOU WHO CEDE THEIR NATURAL RIGHT AND LIBERTY TO SOME ARBITRARY GURU LIKE [INSERT GURU] WHO INSTRUCTS YOU IN THE RIGHTEOUS CRITICAL INTELLIGENCE OF THE MAN. BETTER DEBATERS ARE THOSE WHO TURN DEBATE OUTSIDE IN FROM INSIDE. SPANOS 11:</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times,serif;"><span style="font-family: Sabon,garamond,serif; font-size: medium;">__**Insofar as its logic is faithfully pursued, the framework of the debate system...**____**does...**____**produce horrifically thoughtless Eichmanns, which is to say, a political class**__</span> <span style="font-family: Sabon,garamond,serif;">__**whose thinking<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">...</span>**__</span><span style="font-size: medium;"><span style="font-family: Sabon,garamond,serif;">__**is thoughtless in that it is totally separated from and indifferent to the existential realities of the world it is representing.**__</span><span style="font-family: Sabon,garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;">...</span><span style="font-family: Sabon,garamond,serif;"> __**This governing class has, in large part, their origins, in a preparatoary relay consisting of the high school and college debate circuit, political science departments, and the law profession. The moral of this story is that the debate world needs more outsiders -- or, rather, inside outsiders -- if its ultimate purpose is to prepare young people to change the world**__ __**rather than to reproduce it.**__</span></span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">C. RATIONAL ARGUMENTATION AND THE TRANSPARENT TRANSFER OF INFORMATION ARE WEAK STRATEGIES THAT DESERVE TO BE CRUSHED IN THE DEBATE OF NATURE. THEY DO NOT CONFRONT POWER OR EFFECT CHANGE, BUT GUERILLA AND DISRUPTIVE MECHANISMS OF COMMUNICATION DO. FROM THE DEEPER GERMAN BACKWOODS: </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">What about Communication Guerrilla? </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">A message about guerrilla communication out of the deeper German backwoods / Version 2.0 (all rights dispersed) </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">autonome a.f.r.i.k.a.-gruppe, Luther Blissettt and Sonja Brünzels http://www.copyriot.com/unefarce/no1/artikel/cg.htm</span></span></span>


<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>__**The confidence that the simple presentation of information represents an effective form of political action is almost unshakeable. Critical content and the unimpeded spread of 'truth' are supposed to be sufficient to tear up the network of manipulating messages,**__

...**__Information by itself has neither meaning nor consequences - both are created only through the active reception and through the scope of action of the audience<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">.....</span>__**
__**Guerrilla communication doesn‘t focus on arguments and facts**__ __**it inhabits a militant political position, it is direct action in the space of social communication.**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">,</span>__**it doesn‘t aim to destroy the codes and signs of power and control, but to distort and disfigure their meanings as a means of counteracting the omnipotent prattling of power.<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">..</span>**__

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">RECALL THAT IN THE DEBATE OF NATURE, THOSE WHO WOULD IMPOSE THE GOOD AND RESTRICT THE NATURAL LIBERTY OF DEBATERS ARE CONVENTIONALLY EVIL. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">THE ROLE OF THE BALLOT SHOULD BE ONE THAT PRIVILEGES NEW VITAL FORMS OF COMMUNICATION WITHIN THE ARCANE DATA-SET OF LD. MY FRAMEWORK IS PREFERABLE BECAUSE IT DISPENSES WITH PRETENSIONS TO FACT AND RATIONAL ARGUMENTATION AND ATTEMPTS TO CREATE A POWERFUL AND SEDUCTIVE REFLECTION OF WHAT DEBATE IS IN THE STATUS QUO. POWER IRL CAN DENY FACTS AND RATIONAL ARGUMENTATION, SO IN ORDER TO EDUCATE US FOR IRL LIVING WE NEED TO ACCESS THE KEY INTERNAL LINK OF POWER.THE ONLY WAY TO SOLVE IS TO STOICALLY INTERPRET AND RETURN VACUITY. AS MEANING LONGS TO ESCAPE ITSELF WE SHOULD EMBRACE THE DECEPTION OF STRUCTURE AND JOYFULLY RETURN ABSURDITY TO ABSURDITY. DO UNTO OTHERS AS THEY HAVE DONE TO YOU. BAUDRILLARD 94:</span></span>
Radical Thought Jean Baudrillard Translated by Francois Debrix. Collection Morsure. 1994: Paris.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">__<span style="font-size: medium;">**It is** </span>____<span style="font-size: medium;">**a joy**</span>__ __<span style="font-size: medium;">**to render transparent** </span>____<span style="font-size: medium;">**the enigmatic function of the world,..**</span>__ **<span style="font-size: medium;">__deceiving rather than validating meaning.__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">..</span>__<span style="font-size: medium;">**if language wants to "speak the language" of illusion, it must become a seduction. As for "speaking the language" of the real, it would not know how to do it...**</span>__ __<span style="font-size: medium;">**because language is never real. Whenever it appears to be able to designate things, it actually does so by following unreal, elliptic, and ironic paths. Objectivity and truth are metaphoric in language...**</span>__</span>__<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: medium;">**in fact, it is reality itself which foments its own contradiction, its own denial, its own loss through our lack of reality.**</span>__ __<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">**Hence, the internal feeling that<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">...</span>**</span>__<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: medium;"> **__the world, thought, and language__**...</span>__<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: medium;">**emerged from some place else and could disappear as if by magic...**</span>__</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">__**The absolute rule, that of symbolic exchange, is to return what you received. Never less, but always more. The absolute rule of thought is to return the world as we received it: unintelligible. And if it is possible, to return it a little bit more unintelligible. A little bit more enigmatic.**__</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">THEORY IS BRACKETED BY THE DEBATE OF NATURE IN THE FOLLOWING WAYS:</span>
# <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">WE ARE A RESPONSE TO THEORY WHICH MEANS YOU CAN'T RUN THEORY BECAUSE I'M ALREADY CRITIQUING THE ASSUMPTIONS THAT YOU WOULD USE TO CRITIQUE ME</span>
# <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">I AM ALSO CRITIQUING LANGUAGE, THEORY USES LANGUAGE TO BUILD ARGS, YOU CAN'T BUILD THOSE ARGS BECAUSE I DOMINATED YOUR LANGUAGE AND THERE IS NO INDUSTRY OR POSSIBILITY THEREOF IN THE DEBATE OF NATURE.</span>
# <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">THEORY CLAIMS COME BEFORE OTHER ARGUMENTS BUT I'M NOT AN ARGUMENT. I'M GUERILLA COMMUNICATION</span>
# <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">THEORY DENIES THE ABSOLUTE RULE, WHICH IS TO RETURN WHAT YOU RECEIVED – WHEN SOMEONE ABUSES YOU, YOU SHOULD ABUSE THEM BACK. </span>
# <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">YOU NEED POST-DATING THEORETICAL EV TO BEAT MY VERY RECENT THEORETICAL EVIDENCE. POST-DATING ON THEORY IS KEY BECAUSE THEORY NORMS CHANGE.</span>
# <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">THEORY IS FOR LITTLE MINDLESS EICHMANNS. THE NAZIS USED THEORY. </span>
# <span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">THEORY REQUIRES LETTERS, THERE ARE NO LETTERS. </span>


==<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">==META-ETHIC PRACTICAL RAISINS==</span>== 
My meta ethic is practical raisins. Pratical raisin is the root of all morality and moral agency, because whenever we ask why we have raisins, that implicitly concedes the authority of raisins. Thus we see that we have raisins for raisins, and asking for raisins for raisins only leads to further raisins for raisins.
<span style="font-family: Nimbus Roman No9 L,serif;">And, practical raisins necessitate negation of the resolution because we could never have a raisin that willed a raisin to destroy someone elses raisin because other raisins are our raisins. All raisins are univerally accessable.</span>


==<span style="font-family: Nimbus Roman No9 L,serif;">==META-ETHIC: PARFAITS ARE WHAT MATTERS</span>== 
==
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**My meta ethic is the superiority of the split-brain people over your inferior deontology. Since every ethical theory that isn't split-brain is deontology. My brain has been split in half and now i'm two people. I'm my own warrant for why identity is just a state of affairs and I also warrant util comes first because I can aggregate my brain halves.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**This has a few impacts**</span>
# <span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**you don't know your meta ethic or ethic is true because you haven't lived it. I've lived mine.**</span>
# **This disproves existence and time.** **Parfit 87**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Derek. Reasons and Persons. Oxford [u.a.: Clarendon, 1987. Print.</span>
> <span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Physical Criterion: (1) </span>__What is necessary__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[for identity] is not the continued </span>**__[for] existence__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">of the whole body, but the continued existence of enough of the brain to be the brain of a living person. X today</span> **__is__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">one and the same person as Y at some past time if and only if</span> **<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(2) </span>__enough__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> of Y’s </span>**__brain continued to exist,__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and is now X's brain, </span>**__and__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (3) </span>__there does not exist__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">a different person who also has enough of Y's brain. (4) Personal identity over</span> **__time__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> just consists in the holding of</span> **__[or] facts__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">like [the former] (2) and (3).</span></span>
# **Parfaits solve, but only when they're split brained. Redish:**
> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.ataniel.org/drew-design2.htm</span>
> __**If you find yourself getting stuck in the game, keep in mind**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">that plot</span>__**advancement is often arbitrary.**____**If nothing is happening**__,<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> you need to make sure that you have spoken to everyone until they have nothing more to say, looked around every area to see if there are any objects you haven't noticed, and used every object in your inventory. If all those things fail, take a look at this checklist of important tasks you will need to complete to solve the game (the order is somewhat up to you): </span>
> 
> 
> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">1) Talk to all the NPC's. Repeatedly. Having certain conversations with them (and obeying their requests) is necessary for the plot to progress.</span>
> 
> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">2) Answer the phone immediately any time it rings (this will happen a couple of times.)</span>
> 
> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">3) Make tea for Minette.</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">4) Examine the red paint on the wall in Minette's studio. (The game eventually stalls if you don't do this.)</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">5)</span><span style="font-family: Times;">__**Buy objects**__ </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">at the market for Minette. (Must have finished #3 first.)</span></span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">6) Fix the plotter.</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">7) Develop Dieter's photos and deliver them to Jean-Michel.</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">8) Pick an envelope up from JJ.</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">9) Solve Prudence's ensemble puzzle. (She will call on the phone about it after you solve enough of the previous tasks.)</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">10) Beat Minette's computer game for her.</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">11) Bake cookies for JJ. (Must have finished #5, #7, #8 and #10 first.)</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">12) Solve the dodo bird puzzle. (Must have finished #11 and possibly #4.)</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">13) Fetch a stuffed parrot. (Must have finished #11 and possibly #4.)</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">14) Open the secret passage in Dieter's house. (Must have finished #13.)</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">15) Open the safe in the secret passage. (Must have finished #14.)</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">16) Fix Minette's cockroach problem. (Must have finished #12.)</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">17)</span><span style="font-family: Times;">__**Make parfaits**__</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;"> for Jean Mi.</span></span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">18) Take stock photos for Dieter.</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">19) Get Jing's autograph for Zu.</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">20) Solve the colored eyes puzzle. (Must have finished #15 and #18.)</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">21) Solve the puzzles in the park. (Must have finished #20.)</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">22) Go into the secret sewer tunnels and take two important items. (Must have finished #19, plus you also need a wetsuit.)</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">23) Solve the bomb-defusing puzzle. (This appears on its own at a certain point in the game, I believe after you have completed #21.)</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">24) Decode the M380 code. (Must have finished #22 and #17.)</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">25) Once you have finished all 24 of the previous steps, you can solve the final string of puzzles in the windmill and learn the truth.</span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">26)</span><span style="font-family: Times;">__**Finally, you have to beat up the villain. No kidding, you have to win a physical fight.**__</span></span>
> 
> <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times;">__**And that's it, you've won!**__</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times;">4. We cannot misrepresent the split-brain parfaits without recognizing the aceticism of the parfaits.</span>
**St-Ferriol**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Jacques. “The Cathars: Cathar Beliefs: Roman Catholic Propaganda: Sexual Equality” November </span>**08**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Times change, and equality of women is now regarded as laudible outside the Roman Church.</span>__**There is**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">therefore a</span>__**dan**____**ger of**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> misreprenting Parfaites as being fully equal to </span>__**Parfaits. The truth is not quite so straightforward.**__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Certainly, Parfaits underwent the same training as Parfaits. They took the same vows at identical ceremonies.</span>__**They led the same ascetic lives**__, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">and probably enjoyed the same rights at least in theory.</span>__**In practice Parfaites do not seem to**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">have travelled and preached, nor did they normally</span>__**administer the Consolamentum**__, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">nor do they seem to have been elected as bishops. Instead they lived together in communities, often in large town houses.</span>



==<span style="font-size: 6pt;">==NEXT OFF==</span>== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**NEXT OFF**</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**this is not an off**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
== == 
==<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**==SKEP DA==**</span></span>== 


<span style="font-family: Nimbus Roman No9 L,serif;">A IS THE UNIQUENESS: SKEP IS LOW AND UNTRIGGERED IN THE SQUO. </span>
<span style="font-family: Nimbus Roman No9 L,serif;">**B IS THE LINK: THE AFF TRIGGERS SKEP AND SKEP GOES UP POST PLAN BY SAYING THAT THINGS ARE TRUE AND EXIST, BECAUSE WE CAN ALWAYS HAVE A REASON TO DISBELIEVE THAT.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**C IS THE IMPACT: SKEP NEGATES AND RUSE OF SOLVENCY TURNS CASE SINCE THINGS DON'T EXIST AND AREN'T TRUE.**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
==<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**==DROP IT AND LOSE==**</span></span>== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">THE AFF BURDEN IS TO BEAT MY ARGS. SCIENCE PROVES: THE LATEST EV IS ON MY SIDE. BABB 12:</span></span>
<span style="color: #222222;"> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">When debaters sign up for this activity, I think they should be prepared to defend both sides of the topic. And, I don’t think that obligation stops in the 1AR. If theory in the 1AR isn’t grounded by an egregious violation, judges should be calling these routines out.</span><span style="color: #222222;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> __**Force AFF debaters to actually debate—it might just be good for them in the long term. The whining has**__ </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">been going on for years, and it’s</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">__**never demonstrated a consistent benefit to AFF w[H]in[N]ing percentages. This NIBs fad is only the latest in a line of grievances that lazy debaters have when informed they actually have to beat someone’s argument. There’s a time and a place for**__ it __**to be sure, but**__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">the self-defense </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">__**debate isn’t it.**__</span></span></span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">POST DATING ON THE THEORY DEBATE IS CRUCIAL BECAUSE ONLY THE BEST RESEARCHED AND STOLEN PREP CAN WIN A THEORY DABAIT. THE IMPACT IS DROP IT AND LOSE.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
==<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**==BEST K==**</span></span>== 

A is the link. This is a K.

B is the impact. It's skep, or a NIB, or both.

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">**C is the alt, Reject the aff.**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
== == 
==<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">**GOOD SUBJECT K**</span></span>== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
A is the link. Their framework is either ends based OR means based. Both link.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
B is the impact. This either constructs the subject as concerned with ends, or concerned with means. Both outweigh.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
C is the alt. Reject their construction of the subject and vote neg.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
==REALY GUD DISAD== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">A. is the uniqueness. Wehavenoauthor 2012. [Extemp card]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">B. is the link. Wehavenoauthor 2 2012. [Extemp card]</span>


# <span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">**is the impact. This part is optional.**</span></span>


==LUMBERJACK CP== 

A. is the counterplan text. The counterplan text is to mail the plan to the American Lumberjack Association.

B. is the competition. The counterplan competes through net benefits.

# <span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">**is the net benefit. The counterplan outweighs the plan.**</span></span>

==COMPOUND DURATION CP== 

A. is the counterplan text. The counterplan text is to restart the round so the plan can be read again, following by reading this plantext again.

B. is the competition. The counterplan competes through net benefits.

C. is the net benefit. The counterplan outweighs the plan infinitely on magnitude, probability, and compound duration because this aggregates infinite series of the plan and counterplan, leading to an infinite multiplication of the plans benefits. Compound duration is the most important weighing standard because it takes infinite simultaneous policy actions and adds their net benefits together over time.

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>