[[toc]]
For cites email Aidan Coyle (packrat386@gmail.com) or Rana Aliani (ranaaliani@gmail.com)
=Affirmative= 
==Saint Marks== 
===Plan Text=== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should give recognition, certification, and full legal support to extra-terrestrial property ownership claims by any private entity based on use and occupation on any celestial body beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

===Economy Adv=== 

**Lack of property rights makes space privatization impossible – nobody will risk billions for uncertain profits – space law must be reconfigured**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Currently, most ventures are performed … - of-right to the final product.</span>__</span>

**Conflicting interpretations of the OST have brought private space development to a halt – the aff fills a vacuum in current space legislation and causes massive commercial space development**
Alan **Wasser and** Douglas **Jobes**, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]], Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter **2008** Number 1, pg. 47-52, [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]], JPW
IV. RECOGNITION OF PROPERTY OWNERSHIP … <span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">on natural and civil law.</span>__</span>

**Most accurate indicators say econ collapse is coming now – prefer our evidence, it’s most qualified and predictive**
**Sommer – 10/8** (Jeff Sommer, Business reporter; “An Ugly Forecast That’s Been Right Before”; October 8, 2011; [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/09/your-money/a-recession-forecast-that-has-been-reliable-before.html?ref=business]]) CJC
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LET’S face it: </span>economic forecasting is … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">they have now, he says.</span>

**Private space development is not inevitable – only by incentivizing progress through property rights can we unlock the limitless wealth of space**
Ezra J. **Reinstein**, Associate, Kirkland & Ellis, **1999**, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59
__Space offers the potential for …__ __for a long time to come.__

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Plan causes an economic boom in the aerospace and tech sectors, creating new jobs and billions of dollars of investment</span>**
**Jobes 5** (Douglas O., “Lunar Land Claims Recognition: Designing the Ultimate Incentive for Space Infrastructure Development,” //Space Times,// volume: 44, May/June, p. 10) HD
And what would motivate Congress … will be a space construction boom."

**Space holds the key to the next industrial revolution—one asteroid is worth $1 trillion, helium-3 energy provides infinite energy, unique environment of space benefits the medicine and biotech industries**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"The Environment of space … kind of change is needed. </span>

**Economic decline causes global war**
**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> **–** Director of CTR</span>
Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods … debate and deserves more attention.

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Growth makes war impossible – solves the impact to your DAs</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Griswold 5 </span>****(Daniel- Director of Center for Trade @ Cato Institute, //Free Trade,// 12.29.5, http://www.freetrade.org/node/282)
Many causes lie behind the … with its own peace dividend<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

===OST Adv=== 

**The Outer Space Treaty is on the cusp of failure. The outdated treaty makes private investment impossible and a mass exodus from the treaty likely.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Quinn 8 </span>**(Adam G., J.D./M.B.A. Candidate, University of Minnesota Law School, “The New Age of Space Law: The Outer Space Treaty and the Weaponization of Space,”//Minnesota Journal of International Law,// Summer) HD
Because<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the drafters of the … </span><span style="background-color: yellow;">a substantive set of space laws.</span>

**Commercial activity in space makes mass OST withdrawal inevitable in the status quo – countries will withdraw to avoid property rights questions**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Dinkin 4 </span>**(Sam, Ph.D. economist, July 12, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/179/1)
The Outer Space Treaty may … to grow up after all.

**One withdrawal from the OST causes others and kills development.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Gabrynowicz 7</span>** (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, October 22, http://rescommunis.wordpress.com/2007/10/22/the-outer-space-treaty-still-relevant-and-important-after-all-these-years/ 6/26/11) HD
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Finally, the motive for the … the political will to do so.</span>

**Total OST withdrawal undermines the foundation of the entire space treaty regime – clarification over property rights is required to avoid legal instability.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Gabrynowicz 5 </span>**(Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, Fall, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/IntlSpaceTreatyGabryno.pdf) HD
<span style="background-color: yellow;">As regards to property rights</span> … eliminating the existing legal structure.

**OST consultation process is key to dissuading weaponizers and avoiding misunderstandings from escalating to conflict.**
**Marder 8** (Center for defense information, CDI Research Assistant, “CPR for the OST: How China’s Anti-Satellite Weapon Test Can Breathe New Life into Article IX of the Outer Space Treaty,” June 2008, http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/ChineseASATtest.pdf DA; 6/26/11)
Finally, <span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">the most valuable benefit … </span>____<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">a weaponized space is a present threat</span>__</span>.

**Impact – weaponizing space prompts Russia and China to put their weapons on hair trigger alert – leads to high risk of nuclear terrorism, accidental war, and unauthorized launch.**
**Lewis, 04**– Postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program, funded by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, at the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy (CISSM), Jeffrey, July, 2004, “What if Space Were Weaponized?: Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios”, pg. 22-24, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf, CDI)
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The Russians already continue to … China to do the opposite.</span>__</span>

**Extinction**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Bostrom 2</span>** (Nick, Dir. Future of Humanity Institute and Prof. Philosophy – Oxford U., Journal of Evolution and Technology, “Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”, 9, March, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]])
The first manmade existential risk … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">encounter in the 21st century.</span>

**Now is key to fill the gaps in the space treaty with national laws like the plan – empirically solves in space.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Gabrynowicz 5 </span>**(Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, Fall, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/IntlSpaceTreatyGabryno.pdf) HD
<span style="background-color: yellow;">The</span> second <span style="background-color: yellow;">option for modifying … </span>that quits forfeits the game.

**I-Law precedent indicates the first country to interpret a treaty will set a pattern that other countries follow.**
Alan **Wasser and** Douglas **Jobes**, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]], Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter **2008** Number 1, pg. 47-52, [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]], JPW
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Some experts argue that the … the de facto international standard</span>__</span>. 93

**Aff solves – US unilateral action is best and complies with existing precedent.**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Admin istration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The problems with international methods … agreed-upon international regime</span>__</span>." n372

**The US’s position as a leader in space means that our national policies are the main influence on international legal frameworks.**
**Porras – 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ( Daniel A. Porras, J.D., Associate Officer International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, focused on International Land and Outer Space Law; “The "Common Heritage" of Outer Space: Equal Benefits For Most of Mankind”; California Western International Law Journal; 37 Cal. W. Int'l L.J. 143; Fall, 2006; Lexis) CJC</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Man has been exploring his … </span>__frameworks are adopted or rejected__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The lack of an explicit ban on private property rights means that there’s no ban – other nations and legal scholars agree.**
**Brittingham – Professor – 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bryon C. Brittingham, J.D., Teacher of Business, Law, and English for a Specific Purpose (ESP) course in various countries to professionals at overseas universities; “Does the World Really Need New Space Law?”; OREGON REVIEW OF INTERNATIONAL LAW; Vol. 12, 31; 2010; <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.law.uoregon.edu/org/oril/docs/12-1/brittingham.pdf]]</span></span>) CJC
__Assuming that “the province of … the possibility of private claims__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 54</span>

**Government interpretation of increasing exploration and/or development means recognition of property rights in space.**
**Sattler – Space Enterprise Council – 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rosanna Sattler, Esq. is a Partner with Posternak Blankstein & Lund LLP in Boston, Massachusetts. She is a commercial litigator, and chairs the firm's Space Law and Telecommunications Group. Ms. Sattler is a member of the Board of Directors of the US Chamber of Commerce, and she is Chair of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, Inc. She is also a member of the Space Enterprise Council and the Forum on Air and Space Law of the American Bar Association; “Symposium: Issues in Space Law: Transporting a Legal System for Property Rights: From the Earth to the Stars”; Chicago Journal of International Law; 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 23; Summer, 2005; Lexis) CJC</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By the year 2020, humans will … </span>__develop space resources and infrastructure____.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">n7</span>

**Their restrictive definition of development is untenable – legal development counts, even if it has no economic role whatsoever**
**Sen, 2000** (Amartya Sen, Lamont University Professor, and Professor of Economics and Philosophy, Nobel Prize-winning economist, What is the Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in the Development Process? Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in Development, World Bank Legal Conference, June 5, 2000)
Before I go on to the … the class of causal connections.

==Ohio Valley== 
===Plan=== 

**The United States federal government should recognize, certify, and give full legal support to extra-terrestrial property rights on any celestial body beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

===Econ Adv=== 

**Most accurate indicators say econ collapse is coming now – prefer our evidence, it’s most qualified and predictive**
**Sommer – 10/8** (Jeff Sommer, Business reporter; “An Ugly Forecast That’s Been Right Before”; October 8, 2011; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/09/your-money/a-recession-forecast-that-has-been-reliable-before.html?ref=business]]</span>) CJC
LET’S face it: economic forecasting is … they have now, he says.

**Lack of property rights makes space privatization impossible – nobody will risk billions for uncertain profits – space law must be reconfigured**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
Currently, most ventures are performed … - of-right to the final product.

**Private space development is not inevitable – only by incentivizing progress through property rights can we unlock the limitless wealth of space**
Ezra J. **Reinstein**, Associate, Kirkland & Ellis, **1999**, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59
Space offers the potential for … for a long time to come..

**Plan causes an economic boom in the aerospace and tech sectors, creating new jobs and billions of dollars of investment**
**Jobes 5** (Douglas O., “Lunar Land Claims Recognition: Designing the Ultimate Incentive for Space Infrastructure Development,” Space Times, volume: 44, May/June, p. 10) HD
And what would motivate Congress … will be a space construction boom."

**Space holds the key to the next industrial revolution—one asteroid is worth $1 trillion, helium-3 energy provides infinite energy, unique environment of space benefits the medicine and biotech industries**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
"The Environment of space … kind of change is needed.

**Economic decline causes global war**
**Royal 10** – Director of CTR
Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods … debate and deserves more attention.

**Growth makes war impossible – solves the impact to your DAs**
Griswold 5 (Daniel- Director of Center for Trade @ Cato Institute, Free Trade, 12.29.5, http://www.freetrade.org/node/282)
Many causes lie behind the … with its own peace dividend.

**Transition away from growth kills millions—we can’t shut the system off**
**Barnhizer 6** (David R., Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law; “Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government.” 2006 Georgetown International Environmental Law Review. 18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595 L/N)

We face a combination of ecological, … the pattern once again intensifies.

===Space Race Adv=== 

**New global space race is coming now. Failure of a clear legal system will ensure major conflict to protect countries interests.**
**Hatch – 10** (Benjamin D. Hatch, J.D., Editor Emory International Law Review Executive Notes and Comments, Emory Law Review Founder’s Award for Excellence in Legal Research and Writing, J.D. with Honors, Counselor at Law for The Law Office of Benjamin D. Hatch, PLLC; “Dividing the Pie in the Sky: The Need for a New Lunar Resources Regime”; Emory International Law Review; 24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229; 2010; Lexis, CJC
Probably more relevant than the … , as Part II will demonstrate.

**Continued ambiguity of the OST ensures power wars on the Moon over He3. Plan is necessary to prevent this.**
**Hatch – 10** (Benjamin D. Hatch, J.D., Editor Emory International Law Review Executive Notes and Comments, Emory Law Review Founder’s Award for Excellence in Legal Research and Writing, J.D. with Honors, Counselor at Law for The Law Office of Benjamin D. Hatch, PLLC; “Dividing the Pie in the Sky: The Need for a New Lunar Resources Regime”; Emory International Law Review; 24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229; 2010; Lexis, CJC
A return of humans to … challenges of the next century.

**Otherwise states will ignore and collapse the OST. This leads to a free-for-all in space.**
**Hatch – 10** (Benjamin D. Hatch, J.D., Editor Emory International Law Review Executive Notes and Comments, Emory Law Review Founder’s Award for Excellence in Legal Research and Writing, J.D. with Honors, Counselor at Law for The Law Office of Benjamin D. Hatch, PLLC; “Dividing the Pie in the Sky: The Need for a New Lunar Resources Regime”; Emory International Law Review; 24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229; 2010; Lexis, CJC
While the phrase "common heritage … states to make such a choice.

**That turns the moon into the Wild West – guarantees World War 3.**
**Hatch – 10** (Benjamin D. Hatch, J.D., Editor Emory International Law Review Executive Notes and Comments, Emory Law Review Founder’s Award for Excellence in Legal Research and Writing, J.D. with Honors, Counselor at Law for The Law Office of Benjamin D. Hatch, PLLC; “Dividing the Pie in the Sky: The Need for a New Lunar Resources Regime”; Emory International Law Review; 24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229; 2010; Lexis, CJC
DO-NOTHING systems impose no … lead to World War III.

**Space war causes extinction**
**Mitchell et al 1** - Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)
A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.

**The plan will be modeled internationally**
Alan **Wasser and** Douglas **Jobes**, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). **Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]]</span>, Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter** 2008 **Number 1, pg. 47-52, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]]</span>, JPW**
**Some experts argue that the … the de facto international standard. 93**

There’s a precedent
**Ty** Twibell**, J.D. Candidate,** 1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Admin istration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
The problems with international methods … agreed-upon international regime." n372

===Colonization Adv=== 

**Governments won’t colonize – cost, politics, and current policies**
van **Ballegoyen 2k** (R.F., LL.M, “Ownership of the Moon and Mars? The "land-grant" act as means of stimulating human settlement of celestial bodies”, Ad Astra,The Magazine of the National Space Society, January/February, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/research_library/BallegoyenOwn.pdf, KF)
It is clear that private … to make this opportunity possible.

**Private companies also won’t colonize without property rights – legal uncertainty and lack of profitability prevents it – only the plan solves and spurs space settlement**
**Wasser and Jobes 8** (Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf | Suo)
HUMANITY’S SURVIVAL depends on moving … or any other legal violation.

**Numerous existential threats make extinction on Earth inevitable – only space colonization solves**
**Popular Science 11** (March, “After Earth: Why? Where? How? When?” p. 46, Vol. 278, No. 3)
Earth won't always be fit … off the Earth than on it."

**Their restrictive definition of development is untenable – legal development counts**
**Sen, 2000** (Amartya Sen, Lamont University Professor, and Professor of Economics and Philosophy, Nobel Prize-winning economist, What is the Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in the Development Process? Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in Development, World Bank Legal Conference, June 5, 2000)
Before I go on to the … the class of causal connections.

=Negative= 
==Counterplans== 
===USSF CP=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Air Force fails – trades off with air power, lacks priorities, lacks professional development. New Space Force solves and ensures better space dominance and terrestrial heg. We solve the aff better.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dinerman – 6</span>** (Taylor Dinerman, founder of Space Equity covering the finance and investing side of space industry, columnist for the Space Review writing on space and defense issues, Senior Editor at the Hudson Institute, consultant for the US Defense Department; “United States Space Force: sooner rather than later”; February 27, 2006; <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/565/1]]</span>) CJC
It’s time to admit that … the needs of space operations.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space Force can do the AFF and solve better.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dinerman – 6</span>** (Taylor Dinerman, founder of Space Equity covering the finance and investing side of space industry, columnist for the Space Review writing on space and defense issues, Senior Editor at the Hudson Institute, consultant for the US Defense Department; “United States Space Force: sooner rather than later”; February 27, 2006; <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/565/1]]</span>) CJC
A new USSF should not … reform part of their platform.

===DOD Anchor Tenant=== 

**CP solves - DOD as anchor tenant is the only way to get the private sector on board**
**NSSO 7**
(October 2007, National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf , FS)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FINDING: </span><span class="Underline">The SBSP Study Group … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the National GeoSpatial</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">imaging Agency. </span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SSP will be equal to current energy costs for the DOD</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Betancourt 10</span>**
(Kiatar Betancourt, Online Journal of Space Communication, “Legal Challenges Facing Solar Power Satellites”, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/betancourt.html , FS)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Military Interest: </span><span class="Underline">The U.S. military was … </span>of SBSP lower over time<span class="Underline">.</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]