[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - West Des Moines Valley (IA) - Novices - Constellation|2011-2012 - West Des Moines Valley (IA) - Novices - Constellation]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - West Des Moines Valley (IA) - Novices - Solar|2011-2012 - West Des Moines Valley (IA) - Novices - Solar]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - West Des Moines Valley (IA) - Novices - Weapons|2011-2012 - West Des Moines Valley (IA) - Novices - Weapons]]

Whitey on the Moon
**<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">A rat done bit my sister Nell.</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(with Whitey on the moon)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Her face and arms began to swell.</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(and Whitey's on the moon)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">I can't pay no doctor bill.</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(but Whitey's on the moon)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Ten years from now I'll be payin' still.</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(while Whitey's on the moon)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">The man jus' upped my rent las' night.</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">('cause Whitey's on the moon)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">No hot water, no toilets, no lights.</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(but Whitey's on the moon)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">I wonder why he's uppi' me?</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">('cause Whitey's on the moon?)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">I wuz already payin' 'im fifty a week.</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(with Whitey on the moon)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Taxes takin' my whole damn check,</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Junkies makin' me a nervous wreck,</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">The price of food is goin' up,</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">An' as if all that shit wuzn't enough:</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">A rat done bit my sister Nell.</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(with Whitey on the moon)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Her face an' arm began to swell.</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(but Whitey's on the moon)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Was all that money I made las' year</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(for Whitey on the moon?)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">How come there ain't no money here?</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(Hmm! Whitey's on the moon)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Y'know I jus' 'bout had my fill</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(of Whitey on the moon)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">I think I'll sen' these doctor bills,</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Airmail special</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(to Whitey on the moon)</span>**